ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in light of these announcements that there will be spending in the ranks of the ruling party after the next elections, that some who have not worked properly will be left without their positions, that they will be punished for something in the past period which they have not respected, promises that this will now change in relation to established practice and that it will prove that it is not just one of the marketing tricks of the ruling party before the elections to finally be something, I am also referring to the question to the President of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – when will the Health Minister Zlatibor Lončar be appointed? Let me remind you, Zlatibor Loncar is a highly compromised personality. There are speculations in the public that in his past he has been associated with some criminal structures, even for one doctor, that he has the nickname "doctor of death". Alexander Vukic himself has repeatedly said that he himself does not know where 25% of the funds that are allocated to health care go away in various corrupt affairs and combinations. I will remind you only of the assessment that about a million euros for the Clinical Centre in Nis has been paid more, that there is no idea where that money went, and what is the biggest scandal and to put all this aside, is that Zlatibor Loncar recently tried to divide the Serbian people and criticised all who come from Montenegro, as if another people lived in Montenegro. So, he gave himself the right to assess what kind of language it is spoken by Serbs in Montenegro, yet said it was not Serbian and he acted too autocraticly and ordered that if someone wants to work in the health institutions of the Republic of Serbia he must learn the first Serbian language, thinking first of all about Serbs coming from Montenegro. I am referring to the question, at this time when it is obvious that the Serbian people in Montenegro are at risk, when more than 200,000 people are gathering across Montenegro, protesting not only for the Serbian Orthodox Church, but also for the sense of threat and impatience that exists, and it is being broadcast by the Mil Djukanovic regime, which wants to eradicate everything Serbian from Montenegro, whether the government of the Republic of Serbia and its representatives should express resistance to the Serbs in Montenegro or should do everything in their power to help them in any way possible? Are Serbs only those living in Serbia or are Serbs in both Republika Srpska and Montenegro and across the countries of the former Yugoslavia? What does that mean? It is in obvious collage with what the president of the Republic is trying to do with these happy gatherings of all Serbs from the region, etc. Does Zlatibor Loncar have any support for what he says and all the nonsense we had to see about seven or ten days ago? So it's against Serbian national interests. The government of the Republic of Serbia should be committed to the preservation of Serbs, wherever they live, as we have had many times to hear, and it is determined to show that such attitudes, whether they are thoughtless or just stupid, are not supported, and that someone finally begins to bear responsibility for what he does and speaks. So, to replace Zlatibor Loncar and break up with such practice, and the government of the Republic of Serbia to do everything in its power in every way possible to help the Serbian people in Montenegro, and to change that rhetoric we have seen used by individual ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71456	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71457	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, today I would like to ask the Government and the Ministers of Construction, Traffic and Infrastructure. In the last two months, especially in December and January, we have been almost daily faced with air pollution problems, and as the main contaminants have been marked traffic, a large number of coal- or oil-derived bars, the exhaust gasses from diesel engines, which we are exposed to, contain tea and other micro-particles that pose a high risk to the health of the population, especially for respiratory organs and cause a number of difficult diseases, which also show numerous research in Europe and the world. In this regard, the problem can be solved in several ways. One of them is to slowly shut down cars whose diesel engines are fuel, that is the euro 2 and the euro 3. One of the incentive measures the government proposed last year is to obtain a taxi vehicle that will subsidise if at least the euro 6 are hybrid or electric. Here, it should be noted that business banks are unfortunately hard to lend loans to the flat-rate people. Also, although Serbia is making economic progress, wages and employment are increasing, citizens still have no conditions to obtain new cars that use these types of engines, which are much less polluting the environment. At the same time, public transport is a major polluter, so that part also requires State intervention. In this regard, there are alternative solutions that would involve greater and faster effects. It is a higher use of an electric vehicle, such as trolleybuses and trams, and, of course, in this type of traffic, the use of quality propulsion systems. One species would also be natural gas that is a cleaner source of energy and does not pollute the environment. In this regard, I would like to ask the Government and the Transport Minister, is there perhaps a document being prepared to protect the health of the population and the environment, to provide for newer forms of motor vehicle drive, such as waist and natural gas? Can you find a model and a way to stimulate car owners to move on to the use of gas? I am referring to state incentive measures, i.e. subsidies related to installation and gas-use certificates, which would contribute to reducing exhaust emissions and a healthier environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71458	Is anyone else picking up? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71459	Thank you. A few days ago, several people were arrested in Zrenjanin in connection with a scandal and malversion with the construction of a water factory, which only confirmed the agony that has lasted in this city for years. I'm not saying it's not an old problem that hasn't been solved for many years, but the current government has promised to solve this problem solemnly, with a lot of pomp, it's been released, or opened, or slow is the cornerstone for the construction of the water factory and water treatment in Zrenjanin. It was announced and celebrated as a large and successful foreign investment. As usual, when such a foreign investment fails, then there are no reflectors, no special emissions such as when opening or laying a cornerstone. The point is that, no matter how much the citizens of Zrenjanin want justice in this matter and determining responsibility, they are also much more eager to finally have the right water. So my question goes to the address of the Ministry of Ecology, the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Interior in connection with these arrests, but also in connection with, above all, the facts and information about this investment, in what state it is, whether it has definitely failed or there are attempts to restore this project to build a water factory in this or some other appropriate form. So it's absolutely scandalous that the city, though, is the least village, but a town as big as Zrenjanin can't drink water for years, it doesn't have drinking water, and at the same time, here, for the first time now some people are being brought in and being called to account. What most, the good part of the citizens of Zrenjanin and those who are in the situation think is that this car is being unwarranted on local players, who are directly responsible because the signatories of this project, obviously a failed project to build a water factory, but is the essence of my question whether there are elements of responsibility and the competent ministry that issued the permits for this factory, which apparently failed to fulfil its basic function? Finally, with this in mind, that's why I also additionally apostropheeded the MUP, does it have grounds for doubting, or the reporting of one journalist and son of the owner of KTV TV from Zrenjanin, that because of the contribution that this TV is, means KTV TV from Zrenjanin, it broadcast about the arrests and problem with the water factory, that it was threatened by a close relative and member of the family of the current mature mayor? So, I simply want information on this case, so that the story with journalist Ivanovic from Grocka, or something like that, or God forbid, even worse. My second question goes to the address of the Prime Minister, i.e. the Prime Minister and the President, i.e. the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns the conclusions adopted yesterday by the Republika Srpska Assembly, i.e. the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, and concerning the anti-Dayton functioning of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court. It is known that the latest in a series of scandalous decisions by the BiH Constitutional Court is an attempt to translate Republika Srpska's agricultural land into ownership of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is suggested that it is only an introduction, that the next step will be with water, forests and thus changes the Dayton structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, to say simply Serbian, collapse institutions and competences, so it also raises the question of the existence of Republika Srpska, which is what comes down to some kind of ficus or folklore. In this light, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska adopted eight points of very sharp and very resolution, which do not leave room for two-sense interpretations, which states among other things that the Dayton Agreement has been violated by the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH itself, and that the Republika Srpska Assembly therefore obliges all the institutions of Republika Srpska not to accept and implement any future anti-day and non-democratic decisions by the High Representative and the Constitutional Court of BiH. They authorised representatives of Republika Srpska in joint bodies to implement the decision of the Republika Srpska Assembly. My question is do you think, given that Serbia is a signator and a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement, does it have grounds to support both the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in some way support this initiative of the National Assembly and join the conclusions of the Republika Srpska Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71460	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question about information is for the Ministry of Culture and Information, to provide us with an answer if possible, who is standing, who is financing the show, or the series "Governmental"? Namely, fellow MPs, I warned a year ago that in the election campaign that follows and in the election process the N1 TV side, together with Nova S, so these are the Schools and Gilas channels, to create political opportunities in the country. The "Governmental" series shows that. Given that N1 television is financed from the SBB subscription owned by, or SBB owns, N1 television, these are public funds for me, I want to know who funds the film that goes on N1 television or the series “Government”? Who's funding it? Is this financed from the subscription of citizens to the SBB or is it financed by Baška Ulaj, the leader of the tropoly mafia, whom we have found to have been financed by an editor or director, as it is called, Jugoslav Cosic? So, is this ordered, with regard to perhaps the service should be answered, by the Albanian mafia, Albanian leadership, etc., that the "Governmental" show is being broadcast, it seems to me, for four hours on the N1 TV programme, which, apart from the unregistered Luxembourg side of pirated television, has become a certain way and an unregistered political party, which, apart from itself, still shows in 99% of the programme these failures from the Alliance for Serbia? Also, concerning information, Mr Bujosevic, called Yellow Bujke, answers to what criteria do politicians, with regard to this and the MPs, invite us to informative political shows of RTS, which is a public service, which belongs to, say, me as much as Mr Vukadinovic? How is it possible that, probably because of the question of answering me for the work between RTS and Gilas, Mr Bujosevic would sort of do the censorship, cancel my show in early November 2018, the only one I was invited to visit live at the request of opposition politicians? What are the criteria for hosting? How is it possible that someone's been on RTS for the sixth time in three years without me being the most active MP in eight years? Is this about censorship against certain MPs, is it about political parties, and with this intensities that, say, I, as president of one party since 1990, can't visit the RTS, and someone who represents himself here, who doesn't have a political party, who doesn't even have a political club, we can't even determine who he represents here, says he represents himself, how does someone who can visit for five or six times? My last question is about the Ministry of Regional Development. When will Mr. Krkobic finally deliver me a list of cooperatives? This is the fourth time I've asked that question. I insist on that answer. How many and what cooperatives have received funds? What are their birth numbers? What are the seats? And how much funding did they get individually? There are indications, and the citizens speak to us from the villages, that cooperatives finance the opposite conclusion of the government, that is, where they are active and where there are no funds, but that they artificially establish new cooperatives, from citizens who are not locals of that village and these municipalities, but that they fictitiously establish cooperatives and receive multimillion-dollar funds. At that answer, I insist and note that I have appointed him president of the Committee on Agriculture several times, and as MP for the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71462	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71463	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two parliamentary questions that are not formally connected at first sight, but essentially how they are. The first question is addressed to the Special Prosecutor's Office for High Technology Crime, and in connection with one of the most monstrous publications on Twitter, in which Alexander Vukic's daughter is insulted in the most disgusting and disgusting way. Namely, will the Prosecutor's Office of High-Tech Crime launch a trial and investigation into this so far-favouriest and most morbid attack on Alexander Vukic and his family? So, tweet is so disgusting and disgusting that I just can't read it, but I'm sure the public, and the prosecution is familiar with the content. It is a matter of some Sibin Vukadinovic, known in public for being a close associate of Boška Obradovica. Here's evidence in that sense, if the cameraman can zoom in on this. The picture clearly shows Bosko Obradovic and this Sibin Vukadinovic at a press conference, here at the National Assembly in the Assembly Hall hold a press conference. Imagine, Bosko brought this lunatic here to the National Assembly and held a press conference with him. I think it is necessary in this procedure that the Prosecutor's Office include Bosko Obradovic, to investigate his role in all of this, especially because this is not the first time that the close associates and officials of Bosko Obradovic's movement in the worst possible way threaten and insult Alexander Vukic and his family. My second question, which is somewhat related to the first one, refers to the propaganda waste we had last night to watch on N1 television. They call it a documentary film, and it's actually the worst, most primitive, so the most ground-floor propaganda that Goebbels would envy, which is aimed at exclusively spreading hatred for Alexander Vukic and SNS. In fact, I'm asking the question of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, is it going to respond to that impertinent Heist Television N1 and in order to protect the public's interest in the field of electronic media and to protect the users of electronic media services, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media, and in a manner appropriate to democratic society? The television, with otherwise suspicious registration, with suspicious licenses, with suspicious finances, which campaigned against Alexander Vukic 24 hours a day for seven days a week last night, reached its peak in the spread of hatred. Who last night looked at that dirt, and I, for myself, here, publicly admit that I'm a masochist for watching that show, was able to hear an incredible amount of lies, slander, untrue, half-truth, and we know that half-truths are more dangerous than lies, manipulation of facts and the worst possible insults at the expense of Alexander Vukic: blatant, unspeakable, lying, despot, destructive, toxic, manipulative, unaccountable, changed radical, radical assaulter, self-loving, populist, radioactive, banal, war-hitter, part of some war machine, minor war criminal. They're not literally saying this, but they're constantly imposing it as a thesis: hooligan, unscrupulous, pathetic, ossion, fraud. This is just part of yesterday's insults by various obscenities in this film. A journalist in an attempt by Slavisa Lekic, who is signed as the author of this propaganda junk, gathered all the traditional haters of Aleksandar Vukic. His criterion was obvious only who was ready to attack Alexander Vukic as powerfully as possible and as monstrously as possible. Imagine that frustrated Vesna Malisic, who has the most powerful defense of Milo Djukanovic these days, in an attempt to defend him, to touch him, compares the Serbian trifecta with the chessboard. To what extent does it go? There's that smart guy, the one Gavrilovic from that Bureau who constantly shares the Serbian people, who speaks and claims that only uneducated, illiterate, stupid and ugly vote for Alexander Vukic and SNS. There's that on-call Trebeshian, psychologist or psychiatrist trying, otherwise he's an DS official. So, he's the official of some civil democratic club that founded DS and he's performing from those positions, with the position of DS functioner. And a bunch of frustrated characters who usually only know what they're doing and all they're doing is spreading their hatred for Alexander Vukic. For the very end, the chairman, I agree only with the beginning of this film – Vukic is the face of Serbia. Yes, Vucic is Serbia's face, and therefore Serbs love and vote for him, however much you hate both the Serbian people and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71464	Thank you. I would like to inform you that today he was prevented from attending the session of the National MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a session of the twenty-fiveth extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the Eleventh Assembly, which was convened at the Government's request, you were presented with a request for an extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 25th extraordinary session, the following Dn e n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre. 2. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Project for Accelerating Innovation and Encouragement of Entrepreneurship Growth in the Republic of Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 3. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Land for Contracting a Foreign Building Project) for the Project of Construction of the Obrenovac-Novi Belgrade Heatline, between the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender and the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower), 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on mutual recognition of qualified services from trust provided in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia, of the one part, and the European Economic Union and its Member States, of the other part, 6. Proposal for a law confirming Additional Protocol 6 on trade in services of the Agreement amending and joining the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe and 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the registration procedure of the Immobilities and Waters Catalogue. National MP Vladimir Marinkovic proposed a joint single search of points 2 to 6. Does MP Vladimir Marinkovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - 127 MPs. I find that we have accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic proposed a change in the order of the agenda, namely that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the registration procedure be considered as the second item of the agenda. Do you want to explain? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Finalising vote: for - 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Old Fairment Memorial Centre, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure of enrolment in the catalogue of immovableity and water, which was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic; 3. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Project to Accelerate Innovation and Encourage Entrepreneurship Growth in the Republic of Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Loan for Contracting a Foreign Building Project) for the Obrenovac - Novi Belgrade Heat Construction Project, between China's Export - Import Bank, as a lender and the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance, as the borrower who submitted the Government; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on mutual recognition of qualified services from trust provided in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of NorthernMacedonia , which was submitted by theGovernment ;6 . Proposal for a law confirming the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic ofSerbia , of the onepart , and the Eurasian Economic Union and its MemberStates , of the otherpart , which was submitted by theGovernment ;7 . Proposal for a law confirming Additional Protocol 6 on trade in services of the Agreement amending and joining the Free Trade Agreement in CentralEurope , which was submitted by theGovernment. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Minister of Culture and Information Vladan Vukosavljevic, Igor Jovicic, acting as Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Information, Asja Drač Munte, Deputy Minister of Culture and Information, Tatjana Bojić Juric, Adviser and Milos Gajic, Adviser at the Ministry of Culture and Information. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the first item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Memorial Center of the Old Fair. Does the Minister of Culture and Information want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71465	Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the Old Fairment Memorial Centre is set up an institution of culture at the republican level, which would be dedicated to the memory culture of victims and historical events that took place in the area of today's Old Fair, or the area of the Nazi camp "Jewish Camp Zemun" and "Acceptible Camp Zemun". The process of drafting this law has covered broad consultations with the professional public, as well as representatives of the descendants of the victims. The "Old Fair" memorial centre will, among other things, perform the tasks of collecting, fixing, preserving, exhibiting, maintaining and using, professional processing, research and presentation of museum, archival and film documents and objects. Then, educational-experienced scientific research and publishing affairs, as well as organising manifestations and actions to cultivate memories of the victims of the "Jewish camp Zemun", "Acceptive camp Zemun" and "Acceptive camp Zemun" as well as "Jewish passing camp Belgrade - Topovska vasa". The cultural good "Old Fair" is not adequately memorialized and represents a devastated continent on which a concentration camp was held during World War II during its two stages. These are "Jewish camp Zemun" from 1941 to 1942, and then "Accept camp Zemun" from 1942 to 1944. The cultural well-being is located on catastrian plots of different ownership, both in terms of land and in terms of buildings. This bill provides for the expropriation of immovableity in the area of cultural goods "The Old Fair", as well as the appropriate space "The Jewish Transition Camp of Belgrade - Topovske Voca" for the purposes of the institution of culture Memorial Centre "The Old Fair". In the course of draft laws, European experience has been taken into account, given that similar models exist in the legal systems of European countries that educate memorial centres in which the memory culture of historical events that took place in In situ, such as the State Museum of Auschwitz-Birkenau in the Republic of Poland, the founder of the Republic of Poland, Memorial Dahau, etc. By establishing the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre, we will keep a memory of the victims in the past and remind that the victims should not be repeated, and by passing the law, we will ensure the collection of data, processing and provision of these data in a unique manner in one place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71466	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71467	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, I must admit that it was regrettable that more than seven and a half decades had elapsed to establish a memorial dedicated to his victims, as well as to all victims of the Holocaust, genocide of the Serb people, genocide of the Roma killed in the territory of the occupied Serbia and the independent state of Croatia. A change in relations with all the victims of the fascist occupation and his domestic helpers, giving up decades of victim cover-up policies, primarily the victims of the Serb people, which were the result of what we then called a brother-killing war, and more specifically, the innocent victims of the criminal policies of the regime, so-called. The independent state of Croatia, as well as the inclusion of Serbia in the international network of memories of the Holocaust, has contributed to the adoption of the "Old Fair", with the aim of establishing the Memorial centre as a premise for the cultivation of memories of victims of the Nazi concentration camp at the former Belgrade Fair, the "Jewish camp Zemun" and "Acceptive camp Zemun", as well as to businesses in the field of cultural heritage management and its collection, protection and use, to perform museological, educational and scientific and research activities. We must admit that the area of the Old Fair is one of the few remaining spaces in this part of Europe that is not properly marked, like other death camps, and has a terrible message for Serbia and the Serbian people. There, besides Serbs, Jews and Roma who were citizens of Serbia were killed, people who prayed to different gods or did not pray to God at all, but all of them are bound by love for Serbia, in which they lived and shared good, and as we can see, and evil, so that they truly deserve their sacrifice to be finally marked. It is true that for decades in the former Yugoslavia, as well as Serbia itself, the importance of combating fascism was mainly marked, but the victims of the most monstrous ideology in the history of humanity were not thought of, that is, they were interesting, they were not particularly interesting if the victims were primarily Serbian, and often Jewish or Roma people. Victims were mostly only talked about through figures without mentioning their belongings to work co-existence in the then state. The victims were many because Nazi Germany had a plan to move Jews away from Europe's territory or to destroy and destroy Slovenian peoples who were considered a lower race with the Germans because of the achievement of the German people's living space. Thus, even after the April war, the occupation and dismemberment of the state followed the first measures against Jews who had to apply to be listed, to bear marks, or ribbons on their left hand. After that, they will be arrested, imprisoned in a newly formed camp at the Belgrade Fair, which was used to camp people from December 1941 to June 1944. During that period, he had two fundamentally different stages. In the first period since the founding of May 10, 1942, the name was “Juddenlager Semlin” that is, “Jewish camp Zemun”, and from May 1942 to June 1944, it was called “Anhatelager Semlin” or “Acceptive Lager Zemun”. During his first phase until May 1942, he was in the role of Nazi racial laws and a final solution to the Jewish issue. In the second phase of May 1942 until 1944, it was an integral part of the system of extreme exploitation of labour during which people were considered expendable goods and as such forced to work often to death in inhumane conditions. In the first case, about 6,500 Jewish women and children were interned, about 600 Roma women and children. In the second, more than 30,000 people mostly Serbian men from NDH, and members of anti-fascist movements, as well as groups from Albania and Greece, as well as Italian prisoners. In the first case, they were all killed using a gas truck, and in the second, between 4 and 15 thousand died because of the terrible conditions in the camp, beatings, hunger, disease, or dying in forced labor. When we talk about the Old Simishte camp, I must point out that in fact, a whole series of locations were connected to the camp, primarily where the victims of that camp were buried, the Jajins, where the Jews were killed, thrown into mass graves and where the executions of hostages were carried out during the second phase of the camp's work, but, Bezanjska hair and Jewish cemetery in Zemun where a huge number of victims were buried, about six and a half thousand of them from the reception camp. There is, of course, the Ostrovačka Ada in the Danube, where about 800 forced workers were killed from the reception camp and the TOT Organization camp, which was located near the fairsite camp itself, but also the pine mine and many places from Thessaloniki to Norway where campers were dying massively. The formation of the Old Fairment Memorial centre is of great importance due to the process of historical auditism that has been present not only in our region for the last decades, but also in a significant part of Europe and the world. From the attempt to deny the existence of the Holocaust itself, through attempts to rehabilitate certain war criminals, as well as the relativization of their crimes, to attempt to revitalise the entire Quisling regimes that are our daily lives. I don't think it's necessary to talk about attempts to rehabilitate the independent state of Croatia's criminal regime which, we can say freely, has become a state project in Croatia. As Croatia's quest to gain state independence strengthened, attempts to wash the dark side of its own history. Suddenly, it began to relativise who was on the right side of World War II and who was on the wrong party, as well as the number of victims, both the total victims of the Ustasha regime and, above all, the number of victims of the Jasenovac camp. As much as we try to change the truth, it will forever be written in world history that Croatian Ustashas, supported by Nazi Germany in April 1941, founded so-called. The independent state of Croatia, a regime that immediately took over the Nuremberg Laws and began with systematic persecution and killing of Serbs, Jews, Roma, as well as all anti-fascists, as it will remain, as it will be written that "Jasenovac" was the largest concentration camp in Europe that was not held by the Germans, that "Jasenovac" was the central assembly camp that served as the destruction of people known as Balkan Auschwitz, and that in the territory of the Independent State of Croatia, the first camp in which the most beastly abused and murdered children was created. The Nazi concentration camp of death for Jews, Serbs and Roma, known as the "Old Fair" was, indeed, located on the territory of the city of Belgrade, on the left bank of Sava, which covered the area of the former Bezanija Bar, or Belgrade Fair, called the Old Fair, which belongs to today's township of Novi Belgrade. But the fact is that after the occupation, this territory is attached to the territory of the Independent State of Croatia. The camp was originally planned in the area of Sremska Mitrovica, which was also attached to independent state Croatia at the time, but the plan was soon changed and the camp was formed in Belgrade. The camp was founded by agreement between the authorities of the Third Reich and the Independent State of Croatia, with the Ustasha authorities explicitly demanding that the guards should not be Serbs. The camp was under German Soviet rule all the time, but the search for Serbs, Jews, Roma, and anti-fascists, regardless of their nationality, and their transportation to camps near the Germans and Ustasha were taken care of by the Quislin government of then Prime Minister Milan Nedic, who worked closely with the German occupier until the end of the war. The truth is that in the Fair, unlike Banjica, who had two parts of the camp, one with Nedic's manager and the other with the German manager, who worked together, Nedic's managers and guards were not there, but the truth is that Nedic's regime was silent and giving logistical support to the "Old Fair". Nevertheless, a political process has been under way in Serbia for several years, primarily, with the aim of justifying and rehabilitating Nedic and his government's actions. Individuals of traitors and occupier servants are trying to make a patriot, and his collaboration with the Nazis to represent as a refined policy in difficult times, which is outrageous. Milan Nedic has been a fascist and anti-Semite from belief since before the war, which is a documented historical truth. In addition, we now have attempts to rehabilitate Nedic and to revise his personality as a positive, historical person. The truth is only one, and it says that Milan Nedic was a co-worker of Hitler and Quisling, perhaps together with his associates and he felt that the country's betrayal was a victim, but during that time, call, sacrifice, many of his officials, as well as he, have charged a great deal of co-operation with the Germans. Individuals, trying to justify Nedic, are trying to link him to a story about the rescue of refugees from the territory of the Independent State of Croatia, but the documents clearly show that, above all, the Commissioner for Refugees Toma Maksimovic and Red Cross leader Petar Zec were responsible. If Nedic is responsible for refugees, the German occupation commanders who let them into Serbia are also responsible, so let's rehabilitate them. And from this point on, we must clearly say that Milan Nedic does not deserve rehabilitation and any step in that direction would be an insult to all Nazi victims. Nedic's role as prime minister of the Quisling regime that served his interests, above all the interests of the Third Reich, is sufficient reason. The failure to save Serbs, Jews and Roma, as well as the systematic persecution of anti-fascists, is clear evidence that for any reason he made a terrible mistake, accepting to run a puppet government, which failed the citizens of Serbia, because the fact is that 300,000 Serbs were killed during Nedic's term, including 80,000 in Serbia's concentration camps, the then occupied Serbia, as well as that he was prosecuted and involved in the mass killings of Jews and Roma from Serbia. With confidence that this law will finally correct a decades-old injustice against all victims of the Old Fair, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will support the proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71468	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71469	Here's one suggestion, one point around which, in my opinion, there should be no difference between us. Of course, some solutions can always be better, so there are amendments, there is a debate in particular, and I support with satisfaction this proposal for a law on the establishment of the Old Fair Memorial Centre, and I think the public of the Republic of Serbia, too, is generally standing on that line, and I can only express regret that such a thing has not been done before, which is one of the questions, the first one that I refer here to the competent minister. But more importantly, why is it not so far, this time it really stands the formation – better ever, someone ever. I'm saying, in general, these proposed solutions are fine. The fact is, it's a shame, and not to say an even more difficult word than that, that so far this Memorial complex and this place is hugely tens of thousands, people, Serbs, Jews and Roma, is not properly marked. I say, now the waist needs to see, that some suggestions, how can it be regulated in the best way. I think this bill that I have carefully read is not bad, I say, some things can probably be better solved, which I was also talking about on the Committee on Culture that was held before our session here. What is crucial here and what is important is that in this way it contributes to a culture of memory, not only as a phrase, but as something that makes us what we are, a special one line, a special one continent, a historical vertical, a positive historical vertical and citizens of this country, people, Serbs and all others living in the Republic of Serbia, a memory of the victims, a terrible time and a reminder and a warning that this time does not return in this or that form. So I think that the memory culture is terribly important, as is an important reminder of what has been happening and especially in the context of current trends in the process in the modern world that we cannot ignore, we cannot pretend that there are no, which are now, as it is said, in historical revissionism, or the tendencies of historical auditism and negationism, or attempts to relativise what happened in World War II, and above all we think about genocide against Jews, but also other peoples who have been on the path of realisation and who have been understood, experienced as being on the path of realising the project of Great German, Great German Reich. These are, of course, Slovenians and, of course, within, above all, Serbs and Russians. So, I see this building of the Memorial centre with two museums, as I understand it, within it, the "Old Fair" sees in the context of a wider project, so also to cultivate a culture of memory and maintenance, not only of memory, but of maintaining a national identity in a way that so far is not enough, I would say, through educated and teaching plans, it is not enough to implement this memory of what was happening and of all the victims that were endured during the Second World War and where the greatest losers, of course, were Jews from the area of the former Yugoslavia, but certainly a number of people, so the Serb people throughout the former Yugoslavia. In this light, my second specific question for Mr. Minister is – is it envisaged and how is the organisational and structural relationship of this "Old Fair" Memorial Centre with the Museum of Genocide planned? So maybe even a good part of the public, and it says a lot, doesn't know at all that there is a Genocide Museum in the Republic of Serbia, which is one relatively new institution. According to my information, he's quite a camper, he doesn't have his own building, he doesn't have, either, very, very modest resources. It seems to me that the Museum of Genocide should be a roof institution within which it would then coordinate the activities of these other regional museums, including this "Old Fair" Memorial Centre, and some other strategist, some other memorials and strategists in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So it's a good thing this Old Fair Memorial Center is being created. It is that some investors may be left with no attractive business space to which they have thrown their eye, but I think this is much more important, more useful, more valuable for the Republic of Serbia and for the future, I also say for identity, for the memory of citizens, the inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia, than perhaps some shopping mall, or some mall that could be built in those attractive locations. But not to go to another extreme now, my suggestion and the recommendation is to make, whether now or through some future changes and additions to the Law on Culture or to these memorials, to make one hierarchized or semi-hyerarchized structure where, in my sense, the Museum of Genocide should be the headquarters, and then these regional, or local museums, which mark, keep a memory of concrete sites and specific victims. The Genocide Museum, if I'm not mistaken, has only seven employees of several professional associates, very modest means and I think that with the support of this memory culture initiative, it would not be good for something that would be logical to be a central and roof institution, at least when it comes to this part, this segment of the memory culture, to remain, to set up camp at that level, and that these would be more attractive for some kind of donation, for some kind of international aid, which I suppose, to which it counts, which is written in this bill, when it comes to the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre. The genocide museum with genocide towards the Serb people in World War II is hardly able to count on some large donations, it is difficult to count on someone from the world to break away from helping materially, and this must primarily be the concern of the state. So, I support this proposal, but I would insist on seeing how it can be horizontally and vertically structured and coordinated by the work of these memorials and these regional museums, and with this Museum of Genocide that would be here somewhere in the center, in one way or another, this project and this segment of memory culture. In the end, let's say it directly and Serbianly, I think that, given the number of victims submitted by the Serbian and Jewish and Russian people, the most interested in this kind of memory culture, and probably the most fierce fighters, should be the most fierce critics of these auditist tendencies that exist everywhere in the world. I don't think it's even more pronounced than anywhere else, I think it's less of us, but there are, and it's terrible when there are, even amongst peoples like Serbs, Jews and Russians, but I think that all the citizens of the world, and all the countries that are aware of the evil and the uniqueness of that evil, which, in the middle of the last century, has outdone them, not just over Europe, but over humanity, all of this kind of memory would have to be at the center of attention and primary. Unfortunately, the day-to-day interests, the geopolitical interests of certain governments, or the leaderships or nations, things lead in another direction, and now instead of, I say, what should be some kind of default to the mainstream of the modern world when it comes to keeping the memory of the evil that, I say, happened to Eurup and the world in the form of Nazism, and what happened in the middle of the last century, we had very developed, very perfidious, very aggressive tendencies in the good part, even Europe, that these things were related, that the executions and victims, the aggressors and those who were the target of aggression. In some form of bliss, but equally painful for us perhaps even more painful, it is repeated when it comes to events in the former Yugoslavia, this trend is present and when it comes to events on the premises of the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, now already last century. Here, with that warning and a reminder and this question, I'd end this exposure of mine at least in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71470	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71471	Thank you. Dear People's MP, you asked two questions, if I'm not mistaken, first it was a matter of principle, of how I experienced it, and that's why no law was passed before. To answer that question, we need to look back in the past, to see a complex structure of a number of gaps that have been made over the decades, concerning the treatment of this issue in principle. I don't know what exactly is meant when you said why earlier, did you last year before or before last year, but did you mean it in principle earlier? I can't answer that correctly, but in any case, I agree with your assessment that this law should have been passed earlier. But it's not about your question, it's about adding something. This law for the first time, if I am not mistaken, defines what has also been a decades-old failure in one legal text, and this is a question of the definition of genocide over the Serb people. So, in the terms of Article 3(2), it is very clear -- genocide over the Serbian people is the execution of the punishable acts of point 1 of this attitude carried out by the Independent State of Croatia, Nazi Germany and its allies and assistants during World War II, in the period 1941. - 1945 at the occupied Kingdom of Yugoslavia. This work is like one text that is meant and which is reasonable, but in the symbolic field it is one significant step, since in this way or similar way such things have not been defined in the legal text. I hope and believe, although this is not quite an ideal opportunity for the matter, but it is essentially a substance that will quickly give birth in this society to the necessity of adopting a law on the banning of genocide in the so-called Independent State of Croatia, because, apart from our rhetorical and principled views, intellectual, historical and so on, we must have precisely the part of what you have cited and other related things, I think it should be passed, that this country should pass a law prohibiting the denial of genocide in the area of the so-called Independent State of Croatia, and I think that the provisions of this law and the principle approach to solving these problems that are offered through this law are a good step in this direction. As far as your second question is concerned, I think the situation is a little bit better than it may have seemed to you. So recently, changes and additions to the Law on Culture have been adopted in this congregation, so the thing that you refer to in some ways is already defined. Here, I'll tell you how. In the principles of cultural development, Article 3. point 13 of Article 1 of the Law on Culture introduces a definition – the cultivation of a memory culture for which the museum of victims of genocide is responsible. This creates the conditions that exactly what you've sketched or already drawn or analyzed as a point is created in the material world that surrounds us. Thus, the Museum of Victims of Genocide is foreseen by amendments and additions to the Law on Culture as competent to apply the culture of memory. I believe that in co-operation with the Old Fair and the Museum of Genocide Victims, whose further expansion, both human and material, will certainly need to work, to create conditions for both scientific and research work and for a more comprehensive historical approach. Of course, the tragic events of World War II that relate to genocide against the Serb people, to the Holocaust, to Dari Peña herself, in general to the deaths of other peoples and national minorities in the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia. So anyway, I think it's moving forward with stable steps. I think that the awareness of this also increases the number of failures, decades-old, which are in the memory culture, in general in education or in the part of education, have not found enough room for these solutions to help further strengthen the protection of the memory culture and the awareness of the events that they have defined, and to some extent they also define our destiny today and many political circumstances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71472	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71473	Thank you. It's not a replica, it's just... It is a replica, but it's just a supplement in fact and that we simply specify the views. I'm glad if what you said is true, that it is already envisaged to strengthen the role and weight of specific and logistics, it is quite important, both the logistics and material museum genocide. I hope you understand the meaning of my question. It is clear that few will break away from helping the institution, while some others may be able to count on external donations and support. If we, like I said, don't worry, little who will. The scandal is that all these decades, I'm not talking about years, but decades, didn't seem enough on it. An even more specific question that is somehow meant, but it is not bad to hear an official answer. With which institutions, with which countries, after all, do you expect the most co-operation when it comes not only to this Museum of Genocide but to the Memorial Center? I suppose it's logical, that it's about the institutions of Israel, is it, and various other Jewish organizations, not only about Israel, but I think that there should be more close co-operation with Russia, with the Russian Federation, because I think for my own reasons Moscow is also extremely interested in the culture of memory and in fighting these auditist tendencies, which, minority, put them in the same basket with the Nazis in World War II, I say, for the sake of interest, the geopolitical interests of some small people or some very large nations that Russia stands in the way, so I think Russia and Israel are natural partners there, but everyone is welcome to realize this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71474	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71475	Thank you, Chairman. We understood what was the subject of your supplement. As for the issues of co-operation, of course, it will be numerous Jewish organizations from around the world. It will, of course, be the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial Centre located in Poland. Of course, cooperation with the Russian Federation is understood. I have to add that this generation of people is waiting for us, no matter who's going to do these jobs. One, picturesquely speaking, is free to say, mining business in connection with the investigation of crimes committed in the 20th century not only when it comes to World War II, but when it comes to World War I. Our memory culture is not filled with information from the education system, to other formats in which people acquire knowledge and information about some historical phenomena. The deaths of Serbian people in camps in Bulgaria are little known during World War I and II. Then, in the camps in Hungary, in the former Czechoslovakia, in Jindihovici, where about 7,000 Serbs died, etc. So the big deal is waiting for us. We will, of course, hope as a state, as a society and as a cultural community one in the coming years and decades have many jobs and many activities concerning the protection of memory culture, not only on the basis of standard historical points of reference that are the main and bloodiest and most painful. In fact, they're all like that, but there's a space that's under-covered and under-exploited, so I believe that the Museum of Genocide Victims and the Memorial Centre that will have its own scientific and research work to a certain extent will be in opportunity, but that's not enough. The whole society, of course, those who deal with this, historical science and the like, should focus more attention in the coming period and further research on a number of places of death in World War II, which is the subject of this law, but also of some other events that concern World War I. Of course, those studies must take care of all the victims. Victims have no time to become victims to a special extent, their nationality etc., are already simply victims, but the victims were created by some historical circumstances, some historical preconditions for someone to become a victim in tragic events. So I believe we have a lot of work to do, but, as I have already said in my previous presentation, I also hope that we have made very strong and very important and encouraging additional steps in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71476	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71477	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the Parliament of Serbia, is today in the Assembly of Serbia, I consider a very important bill – a bill on the Old Fairt Memorial, which we have been waiting for for over 70 years. For so many years, in the name of brotherhood and unity, we have not properly marked the victims of innocent people who were guilty only because they were Serbs, Jews or Roma, and this was done by all other countries, whether they have so far marked the death of their people, as did Jews in yours or in the countries of Europe, where Nazi Germany founded these camps, for example. in occupied Poland, such as Auschwitz, Belzen, Warsaw, Trevlinka and others. Just one thing, for the sake of note and distinction, there were extermination camps in which prisoners stayed just hours until their deaths and concentration camps that were slave labor, again, of course, to death, such as Dahau, Bergen Belsen and others. Now, as these first existed in Poland, so were Jasenovac, Jadovno and Stara Gradiška. They were the only ones run not by the Nazis, but by NDH and Ustapo, and so were the "Old Fair" and "Top sheds", founded by NDH and the Gestapo in Belgrade. The first arrests and deportation of Jews were carried out in the middle of August 1941, when almost all the Jews from Banat, over 3,000, were brought and killed in Logor's "Top's sheds" in five months, and by the end of 1941 and early 1942, according to some data, 6,280 Jews, Serbs and Roma were killed in Logor's "old fairground" and by the evil-known "souls". It was then announced that Serbia had been cleansed from Jews, the first country since Estonia to say in early 1942 that it had resolved the Jewish issue. Can we stop for a moment today, shut up, imagine all the situation and the monstrosity of the crimes that took place in this place, and we as citizens of Zemun, New Belgrade, Belgrade in general and finally all in Serbia have been passing 70 years past such a place and more similar, not knowing anything about it, not knowing that there, in the space between the two bridges, were the most monstrous deaths in Sava at the eastern point of NDH. And today, the old Zemuns remember that every day towards the Old Jewish cemetery, they were moving wagons, loaded with human corpses, and then quickly, a truck appeared, a famous death truck. The NDH's request was to allow a camp, a quote, no Serbian police officers and guards, but to finance and supply from Belgrade. First it was only for Serbian Jews, and only for women, children and old ones, and then, when Serbia was "cleaned" by Jews, for those five months, since May 1942, it began to receive other hostages -- communists, partisans and all other patriots in the field of war acts until July 1944. Over 32,000 people went through this camp, and he stopped working after the Allied bombing, when he was partially destroyed. The cultivation of oblivion took too long, and those who forget their history must repeat it. It's a terrible reminder that has just happened to us in recent history, in which we are of the perilous people and victims, we turned into a monstrous people, ready to kill another only because it's not the same as us. Excuse me, all those who want to change history and write a new one, we have to say that there are too many documents on the history of guilt, which can't be all destroyed and that remain permanently. So, finally, on behalf of all those whose family members died, who had to be destroyed, who had to disappear, I believe that this law must indeed be passed. You have to give the truth a chance so she doesn't get definitely run over. This sobering gives hope that, as a Serbian people, we will remember with the piety of all Jewish and Roma victims, which we could not protect, because we ourselves were victims and killed. That is why we will also remember members of our Serbian people who have innocently died in this, but also in many other places. That is why, in every respect, I would like to give my support to this Ministry of Culture, this Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular to the President of the State, Aleksandr Vukic, who, as president of Serbia, firstly and publicly on this part of the Serbian tragedy, in an independent state of Croatia, spoke, visited Gradiška, was the initiator with Serbs from Republika Srpska, to make the camp Jasenovac, Stara Gradiška, visible, to build a special memorial worthy of the enormous proportions of genocide of the Serb people, but also as a place of memory, reminders, but also a place of reconciliation. In this context, I also recognize the proposal of this law as the place of memory, reminders and reconciliation, the preservation and care of history, which is the testimony of evil times and the suffering of the people. But I would add at least two things to this, an integral part of the Staro Simiste memorial centre, which according to the proposal consists of two museums, the Museum of the Jewish camp Zemun and the Zemun Museum of Acceptance, I think it must be added to the Belgrade Topovska Voca Museum. So the Old Simishte Memorial Centre could become the center of the memory network. Let's remind ourselves. It was the first Gathering Centre, a camp for Jews and Roma in Belgrade in World War II, where in five months more than three thousand Jews and Roma, brought from Banat, where the German administration was, in order to become small very quickly, and after the decision of the German command, in occupied Belgrade, by decision and by Gestapo, these same prisoners worked slavely to build and adapt the former Belgrade Fair, otherwise one of the first such fair facilities in Europe, to a special purpose camp to kill. A handsome, isolated space, between two bridges, on one side bounded by a river, and the other by the railroad, and then by all swamps in the hinterland, and today by the new Belgrade boulevards. The first marking of the Topovo Voca camp, to say the case, was 1951, but with a memory, it was then written on the table "I'm burning to friends for the freedom of the country". True, but not whole. The second panel, it was set by error. At the entrance to the Tramway sheds on King Alexander Street. Imagine so much not knowing. And finally third, in 2005 a monument of the tablet would be placed on the wall of one, still from the existing object of the Topovske vas, whose author is Aleksandar Nećak and in which the text is in Serbian, English and Hebrew. In January 2006, it opened, as a mention of the Park of Topovo sheds, but quickly forgotten and abandoned. Objects that have survived all the bombings of Belgrade, our total negligence, must not be destroyed now that we have established the Old Simishte Memorial centre. This area must not be granted to any shopping mall, consumer society icons and neoliberalism. But if we don't do it now, and we don't adequately protect this complex, we're going to have to do it later, because that's what everyone who has memories of this place of severe suffering, whose members of the family in it have disappeared, all those who have lost their loved ones and whose total trail has been destroyed. Such an act of protection must be done as a responsibility to its own history, which testifies to what happens to Serbs when they have Quislin power, power by other people's will and dictatorship. Finally, Serbia is a member of the International Organisation for Research and Education in the Holocaust area and needs to meet all accepted standards and standards, as historians say, Topovske garners were a tank of shooting hostages, as the Stari Simište was. Just one more. I propose, like many citizens of Belgrade, that the old Sava Bridge be an integral part of this memorial, precisely because it was built by the Germans, as the only place that connected the NDH and occupied Serbia at the time, where there was an anti-fascist struggle, because the great bridge of King Alexander, today the restored Brankov bridge, served as a memory of the heroic endeavor of one teacher, anti-fascist, one lonely but brave man, Miladin Zaric, who without any help, partisan or other organisations had demined it and preserved it for the rapid crossing of the partisan units and units of the Red Army and freed Belgrade in suppressing the fascist troops of the German army in retreat. Otherwise, during the war, let's just say, two important bridges that didn't German forces in Europe have destroyed is the famous bridge on the River Reyna at Remogen and this one on Savi. That bridge is a monument to the courage of a man who is not organized, who feels and understands what is a long homeland and deep down is an antifascist. That is why it is necessary to find a way to keep the bridge as part of this memorial, because instead of mass killing on one side, it is a symbol of the resistance to anti-fascist struggle, the fight for freedom and free Serbia, the free Serbian people with all the peoples who live here. He must remain alive, human, on foot, not moved to a meadow like a pile of iron or bridge in another city or somewhere else, because only here and in this way he really is who he is. Approving a series of renovations and construction ventures in Belgrade, please pardon the Miladin Zaric bridge and its duration in this historic complex. Once again, we will vote in favour of the law, provide every kind of help in preserving the memory, respecting all victims, and respecting the lives of all peoples and peoples, because peace and freedom, co-operation and preservation of the identity of the people are the only condition for Serbia's civilization progress and progress. In that sense, I believe that all that the inhabitants of Zemun have sought these past years and still remember the deaths in World War II, the NDH authorities in this city and the environment, all the illegals, the Zemuns, then heroes and other camps who have survived the deaths elsewhere, and who have left their testimonies about it, the Museum of Genocide, the Banjski camp, the place of the Jajinci Center, should be together with these now memorials that are being established, the centers of a unique network of memorials and memories in Serbia, never again. Once again, all the support of this Ministry of Culture on one big venture and finally proposing this law. All the best and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71478	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71479	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SDPS strongly support this Bill on the construction of the Old Fair Memorial Centre and, of course, everything that is provided for in this Centre's activities in the future, and it is about what is the main theme of this session today, and it will be a very serious topic for discussion in the future, which is a culture of memory, a culture of common memory between the peoples most affected in the area of the former Yugoslavia, which is the Serbian people, Jews and Roma. It is finally and finally time that, in one of these ways, by building a Memorial center, but also by creating and forming an institute of research centres, by organising round tables and defining programs at all levels of education, we remind our people, remind and teach, especially our young people, about what happened in World War II, but also to remind them that we have been inheriting, even though it has been more than 75 years since the end of World War II, one of the greatest and most powerful civilization values, which is the antifascism that SDPS has been fostering since its founding. I will never forget the words of a former ambassador, otherwise a great friend of Serbia, Josiah Levi, who, seven, eight years ago, at a meeting where, together representatives of political authorities in Serbia, the Jewish community, the Roma community, paid our respects to all those who lost their lives, i.e. those who died in the Holocaust and in the pogrom supported by the Ustashas in Croatia and throughout the former Yugoslavia and other co-laborationist movements, said something that may not even be in line with some of the principles that we here in Serbia learn and inherit as majority Orthodox Christians, which is that there is no forgiveness. We here say that we can forgive without forgetting, and the Jews say there is no forgetfulness, but there is no forgiveness. And I agree with that that there is no forgiveness for what happened in such a way half the last century, and that such events simply and all these victims deserve to be loud, and not only when, unfortunately, we mark certain anniversarys, when we make a roundtable, when we make a lecture at the university and university, when we talk about it here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but, unfortunately, every day, to be loud in every place where we attend, so that in this way, in these conditions in which we live, we promote only what it is to the Serbian people, which is entitled to our country, which is true. That's what we fought for in the Balkan wars. That's what we fought for independence for, and when we got it in 1878 at the Berlin Congress. That's what we fought for in World War I, World War II, and together, unfortunately, we died with our brothers Jews. What is essential to say is that we were not as difficult as the state, and there is full gratitude to the then prime minister, current President Alexander Vukic, who insisted and initiated many, many good, quality proposals when it comes to respect for the Jewish community, when it comes to respecting the dates that are of great importance, both for the Jewish community and for our entire people and for our country. I will remind one more of my distinguished colleagues, the MPs, but also the public in Serbia, the public in the region that Serbia is the first country in the world to pass the law that we have returned and return the property to the successors of the Holocaust victims. The first country in the world to legally define aid to a few, but always a highly respected Jewish community, the 950,000-euro Union of Jewish municipalities for the next 20 years. This shows the highest quality of the Serbian people, but of course also the responsibility of the current political government, the president of the state, the majority in parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to treat the highest values and civilizational achievements of our people and our country with respect. Respecting the Jewish community, respecting their sanctity, respecting their sacrifices, we have begun to respect the past few years, unfortunately, and our victims. A few years ago, we mark the anniversary of the Storm every year. I remind our citizens and our people that, until just six or seven years ago, it should not have been said that we should have marked that 250 thousand of our people were exiled, and more than 2,000 people were killed in an aggressor and, I am free to say, the pro-fascist act of the then Croatian army. In the 20th century, at the end of the 20th century, an army of states now a member of the European Union killed more than 2,000 people who were on the run, who were unarmed, who were moving towards Serbia only wanting to find refuge and be safe and to find the opportunity to continue the life they had led until then. It is now Serbia and it is now the politics of the Republic of Serbia. We do not want to let any crime be forgotten, nothing bad happened to our people, but, of course, by respecting our own people, we respect the Jewish community, we respect the Roma, who have suffered greatly. We will worry about the next period both in the coming years and in their years and we will worry that our citizens and people in our region, but also in the whole of Europe, do not forget how much the Serbian people were free, how much the free people are now, and how much we are, and how forgotten, especially in the modern and Western world, how much the Serbian people contributed to the freedom of this world, as a small people, in the First World War, losing one third of their population, in the Second World War, suffering disastrously from one of the smallest people, from the fewest people in all of Europe. Proportional and percentageally, perhaps after Jews and after the Russian people, we were the most injured. Maybe it's our own fault. Surely we are to blame ourselves, and we are not talking about it, and at the end of the last century, we allowed everyone else here in the region, to whom we have provided democracy, which we have ensured economic growth, to which we have provided during the existence of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of SHS a normal life, a free life, to let us be defeated in the propaganda war. Of course we won't allow something like that anymore because Serbia now has strong support and has much more allies than it had until just a few years ago. Israel is our ally. The Jewish people and the Jewish community are an ally of the Republic of Serbia, and this is very important globally when it comes to the geopoliticals of our country and the future of our country. I will quote former Defence Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Israel, President of Israel, our home to Israel, Mr. Liberman, who has repeatedly said that the state of Israel will never allow it to be at the session of their government to discuss the issue of independence, so-called independence. Kosovo because the state of Israel respects the state of Serbia and because it remembers and knows how many Serbs have suffered and how common our people are to suffer with Jews and the Jewish community. I will remind myself of many meetings and contacts that President Vukic made and achieved with the World Jewish Congress, with Ipak one of the most powerful and powerful organizations, the lobby of US Jewish organisations that support Serbia and which are one of the supporters of the current policy of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to and when it comes to our foreign policy. That's what's wise of our leadership. It is what is wise and what President Vukic is doing very well, and it confirms his friendship and memory of the suffering with those whom we have suffered, reminding us of our history and reminding that never, as Jews can say in the country itself, Israel or the whole world that they will never again allow their people to put themselves in wagons and lead him to slaughter. The Jews will never let that happen again. The state of Israel will never allow it again. Thus, the state of Serbia will never allow "Storm" again. The state of Serbia will never again allow the pogrom that took place in Kosovo and Metohija after 2000, 2004, in 2008. Serbia is growing stronger and stronger. Serbia strengthens its economy, strengthens its military capacities, but strengthens its alliances. I have to tell my colleagues, but also to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it's not enough that we were allies 20, 30, 40 or 50 years ago or maybe 100 years with someone. We were allies during World War I with the French. We were great friends of our army working together. I will remind only that when General Fosch received King Alexander during the Versailles Conference he even offered King Alexander that then Austria and Germany would be divided into five occupation zones and one of them would be under the authority and jurisdiction of the Kingdom of Serbia, as small countries and as small, relatively, players at the level of Europe. But then Serbia respected and respected and raised its alliances. We lost that feeling at the end of the 90 ’ s after the fall of the Berlin Wall. We today think that we will have the blanco support of Israel and the Jewish people and Jewish organizations just because we have a common history and because we have suffered together, and their Prime Minister, the current Benjamin Netanyahu, said a few months ago that the history of the common Serbs and Jews is more than a century long, but the problem is that only one small percentage of the people in Israel and around the world knows and I think that by building this Memorial centre, we will not only honor the Jewish community, the injured Jews, Serbs and Roma, but we will show in fact how much Serbia has freedom, democratic and any other capacity and we are very important and we are grateful and the big business has done the Ministry of Culture and you yourself, Minister. I know how much you have advocated that this topic be delegated at the highest possible levels in our country, but also at the level of EU countries, at the level of the developed countries of our former allies who were with us, that is, with whom we were during those difficult days in World War II. It is very important that this "Old Fair" Memorial Centre has and does serious co-operation with the Aushvic-Birkenau Memorial Centre and with all the memorial centres dealing with this topic, and "Jad Vashma". I will also remind my colleagues that it is very important for anyone, whether you are in politics or any other business, to go to “Poor Yours” and to see this, to see this silence, but also to see that the seriousness of the Jewish people and the state of Israel that when you enter “Poor Yours” you have the opportunity to see photographs of people who have been killed around the world by Nazi and fascist hands. The Jews say – we will not stop our work until we have photographed everyone, and we all know that more than six million people have been killed, will not be exposed at the Memorial Centre "Poor Yours". We too need to follow such an example, and sometimes we have to learn from others. I think this is a very, very important, strategically important thing for our country where we will manage not only to show people with whom we are working politically, with whom we are working economically, of course and countries, but also their scientists, their university professors, people from scientific institutes what has been happening here, and in fact we are showing the truth about our people, we are showing the truth of how many our people are, in fact, one of the few peoples unfortunately in this part of Europe, but also in all of Europe, I note, which anti-Semitic people. You will find no element in the 20th century, except for some ideas and people who were paid, who were under the hat of Nazi Germany then as was then the president of the National Assembly of Dimitria Ljotic, but had no foothold in it, nor had any support of any part of our people, and these are the most significant values of our country and our people – anti-Semitism and anti-fascism. This is what we need to talk about and talk about at every domestic gathering, at every political, cultural, any other conference and in the region and abroad because we are one of the few people who has shared fate with the most suffering people, perhaps ever in history, which is a Jewish people, for which neither today nor modern science can reach it and cannot explain why one of the then modern states and its leadership decided to destroy one nation because it is a different religion and only because there are other ethnicities, and especially that I am not talking about what is one of the historical most significant nations not only for the territory of the Middle East, where they are mostly living, but for the whole world. Finally, Jesus Christ was a Jew and the apostle Paul was a Jew. He persecuted Christians and turned to Christianity and was one of the most important apostles we can read much about. This modern science has not yet been able to explain, and our people and our country have remained with this people despite the suffering and despite the great blackmail, we have remained with our principles and remained even to this day anti-Semites, we have remained even to this day anti-fascistsists. It is essential that both the Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia promote and support that the memory culture is something that will be conditio son qua non-functioning of our state institutions and that through a higher level, a stronger level of education than primary, secondary education, of course at universities and universities, we will constantly talk about what happened in World War II, but to encourage us, that this is an advantage when it comes to relations with other peoples and other countries. Here we are particularly talking about Israel, here I am particularly talking about the United States, which as you all know are very interested in the Israeli question and the issues concerning the Jewish people. Unfortunately, we allowed ourselves, and I have to be honest with you, to lose the propaganda war, and that the greatest propaganda war against the Republic of Serbia, the then-SRJ, is being fought by American Jews, Senator Lantosh, Biyogardi, now Elliot Engel, the naturalized American Jews. Why? Well, because we've been silent for over 70 years about how many victims we've been, how much we've helped the Jews and how much they remember today, but it's not enough in this modern world, the world of the Internet, new technologies. If it's not on social networks, on portals, if it's not talked about every day, it falls into oblivion, and we can ask Zamboki, who today is one of the richest people in Israel, so he was saved by a man from Dorcolo, a Serb, who took him to Zrenjanin. Zhamboki returns to Serbia three, four times a year. He's talking in Israel about Serbia. He's talking about Serbs saving Jews during World War II, but that's not enough. That must be spoken of by all the MPs, all the members of the government, but also by our young people, all the students, all those who love this country and of course who want to raise on every aspect of its capacity. I end up thanking the very working group, who was working on making this bill. Of course, the Minister and the Ministry of Culture, doing a great job and what is essential, that this law I hope, as we voted for the Law on Compensation to the heirs of the Holocaust victims, was, I mean, one single law in the past ten years that has been voted by consensus. All the MPs who were present voted for it. Thank you, of course, to Mr. Goran Vesic, who has invested a lot of energy, who has managed to raise the relationship between the Jewish community and our country and our institutions and Vladika Jovana, who is also one of the greatest acquaintances of the Holocaust and these issues. This is something that's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71480	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the People of the Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the laws of the agenda to this session as soon as possible. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71481	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are before us a law on the establishment of the Old Fair, a very important law, because after 75 years of the end of World War II, for the first time a memorial centre "Old Fair" is legally arranged. This law is also important in the face of the first regulation of a legal framework that defines genocide against Serbs who committed NDH during the period of war from 1941 to 1945, with a German occupier and other interested allies in World War II. This law is also important because this law provides for a legal framework for organisation and work, for collecting, for setting, for processing, for museological activities, for the film activities that are envisaged, and this law is also significant from the aspect that two museums are set up and that museum of the Zemun Jewish camp and the Zemun Museum accepted camp. Also, this law is very important because it is formed within the framework of the law and the international council for co-operation entered by experts of integrity, from education and knowledge, and not only by our experts, but by legal and physical persons who deal with this issue from all over the world. Of course, the possibility of working together museums with museums and institutions that deal with similar work throughout the world is foreseen. Also, an internal organisation has been regulated, as regards the Management and Supervisory Board and the Director, the way of funding, etc. However, the excess value of this law is because after 75 years, we first set up a legal framework aimed at maintaining and preserving a culture of memory of the greatest casualties committed against Jews, Serbs, Roma and other anti-fascists in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, i.e. in the area of the Republic of Serbia, NDH and in other areas where crimes against Serbs have been committed. We mostly talked about our victims a little bit when we talked. We knew there were them, but we kept quiet about it. Seventy-five years of silence and shame was meant for the head of the state to come to statesman Alexander Vukic, to come to this government, so that after 75 years we realize that we have a moral obligation to remember all Jews, Serbs, Roma and other anti-fascists who suffered during the German occupation and fascism in World War II, but that we have the responsibility and obligation to teach the present and future generations about what happened in this space, not to upset hatred, but to know about the crime so that crime doesn't happen again. Because keeping quiet about the crime, and we've been silent for all these 75 years, probably by courting someone else, is the same thing as doing crime. When it comes to Jews, when it comes to this law, I must point out that the first concentration camp that was organized for Jews and in which Jews, mostly men gathered, Roma and other anti-fascists, was a concentration camp in the AutoCommand in the Topovo Forests. The rebels were brought here after the fall of the Užička Republic, as the Užička Republic was the only free area in occupied Europe for two months, from September to November. Also, I must say that all Jews, Serbs, Roma were shot by December 1941, while their families, women, children, the elderly were transferred to the Jewish camp of Zemun. I must say, by entering Serbia, the Germans actually dispersed the Republic of Serbia. The Jewish camp of Zemun was five kilometers from Zemun, and it is the easternmost border of the former NDH. So, the Jewish camp of Zemun, which was later the reception camp of Zemun, was located on NDH territory. I must also point out that from December 1941 to May 1942, there was a genocide against Serbian, Jewish, Roma women and children in a particularly brutal way, and this way by driving them in a truck that was hermetically shut into which the exhaust gas from the exhaust and they were actually on the route from the Jewish camp and to the Jayans were suffocated. There were usually 50-70 women, children and old people in the truck, so it's not stronger. According to some data, 7,000 Jewish, Roma women and children were estimated to have died in this most famous, ferocious, monstrosistic crime, which is so-called. The car that the German occupier specifically drove right out of Berlin to choke Jewish women children and old men, Roma and Serbian. Also, I have to say that the Gestapo, or SS, has managed this camp, because the Independent State of Croatia has given them control of this camp on condition, of course, that there are no Serb guards and that the camp is supplied from Belgrade. I must also point out that later in this reception camp in Zemun, a large number of anti-fascists were brought in from the area of Bosnia, from Kozara, from Potkozar, from Like, from eastern Bosnia, but were brought from the territory of Albania, Greece, Italy, as well as Serbian anti-fascists from all over Serbia. I forgot to say that the German Nazis, when they ran out of Jews, Roma and those Serb rebels in the Topovo forests, to carry out the orders they gave, which is that for one killed German, they would shoot 100 Serbs, Jews, Roma and others, they would go to cities all over Serbia and commit the most massive crimes, massacres and murders. One of these crimes and murders is the massacre of Kragujevac students in Kragujevac, Šumarica on 21 October 1941, as well as the shooting of civilians in the Kingdom and the same year from 14 October to 15 October. Of course, here I have to put a special accent on the infamous Ustasha camp Jasenovac, for the reason that hundreds of thousands of Serbs, Jews, Roma and other anti-fascists have been shot at infamous Ustasha camp in NDH. Dr. Graif, by the way, Israeli historian for Auschwitz says in his book: “Jasenovac equals Auschwitz of the Balkans.” Even in his book, he makes a comparative analysis between Auschwitz and Jasenovac and says there is a big difference in the way of killing, killing German Nazis and killing Ustashas in the NDH area. The difference is in one thing, the German Nazis mainly killed industrially, in gas chambers, and the Ustashas in NDH lived in the most brutal, most viral way, enjoying the easy death of sprski, Jewish and other victims, but also what is most tragic, enjoying the death of children. Only in the NDH area was the Jasenovac concentration camp under the direct administration of the Ustasha government, or Ustasha in which one of their ministers, Mile Budak, said at a conference in Gospić that 1/3 Serbs should be killed, 1/3 exiled, and 1/3 cataclysed. Of course, the biggest crime that could have been recorded in World War II is precisely crimes and concentration camps over Serbian children aged from one month to 14 years. They took the Ustashas, the children from their arms, the babies, because they didn't want to give them, they separated the children and mothers immediately, but the Ustasha threw Serbian children to their heights and welcomed them to bayonets. Ustashas in the Independent State of Croatia took children's eyes out on the mother. They threw their children into living paint and cretins, and that's the stories and testimonies of the survivors. One Croatian poet, Ivan Goran Kovacic, describes this very Serbian loss as a protest against such a relationship in one of the most shaken poems, which is called "The Cave", because when the Ustashas failed to slaughter the animal from Kozara, from Potkozarje from like, they threw into the abysss 46m long. Some of them survived and later talked about these horrors. Also, I must point out that policy has changed since 2014 in the Republic of Serbia. Also, I must point out that this year in January of the presidency building, at Andric's wedding, the yellow flag with David's star was first entwined in memory of 75 years of Holocaust, that is, the memory of Jews who had to wear yellow ribbons at the time of the Nazi occupation. It echoed powerfully in Israel. Of course, the Israeli people supported this gesture by President Alexander Vukic. Aleksandar Vukic was later in Israel to mark 75 years of memory of the Holocaust, or the release of the Auschwitz camp, and met with Israeli President Rivlin on that occasion. I must also say that for the first time, the President of Israel, Mr. Rivlin, comes to visit the Republic of Serbia in 2018, when Alexander Vukic welcomes him. Serbian-Jewish friendship has been decades, centuries old, Jews in this area of Serbia have lived many years back. The Jewish community is also important to us today. Serbia is the only country in the region and beyond, which passed a law on the return of property taken from Jews without descendants. Therefore, Serbia is doing everything to preserve the friendship between the Serbian and Jewish people. In World War II, Serbia is one of the four countries in the world that suffered the largest casualties proportionally. Serbia is an anti-fascist country. Serbia is a free country. In Serbia, they always kept their hearth and their families, never attacked others. In order for historical facts not to be forgotten and distorted, and there have been attempts to do so, the attempt to promote fascism is the whole world's modern must stand in the way, is an exhibition organised in the UN called Jasenovac, the need not to forget. The exhibition featured many items, many images of a terrible event from Jasenovac, but depicted objects that killed Ustasha, or slaughtered Serbs. That object is called a itch. Petar Brzica, one of the Ustasha leaders and slaughterers, was awarded only because he slaughtered 1,360 Serbs for one night between 29 August and 30 August 1942. The Ustashas competed for Christmas, who will slaughter more Serbs in Jasenovac. Of course, our policy and policy that our President Aleksandar Vucic is a policy of peace, stability, life policy, and not death, but also a policy of truth based on historical facts, not a policy of lies based on arguments. The first statesman to mention that in the space of 1995, the scariest pogrom in front of the whole world, in front of modern Europe, is Aleksandar Vukic. In a 600km-long column from Knin to Belgrade, they traveled in old cars, trucks, tractors, wagons, mostly women, children, old people and by which a man in his older age. 250,000 Serbs from Croatia were expelled in the "Storm" action. The words of Mila Budak may have been true, that Croatia today is an ethnically clean country. The Serbs were exiled from Croatia, but the Serbs did not disappear. Of course, we mark that August as the day of the memory of 2,000 victims killed during this criminal action, and in Knin, which otherwise had 90% of Serbs before the war, that day is marked as the day of victory. What I must also say is that 20 years should have passed since the Battle of Kosharam and Pastric, so that someone remembers that those fighters who defended our country were actually the best part of us, because they gave 108 lives at our border with Albania, and their age was only 25 years. They're actually the best part of Serbia. Why did those who used to exercise power be ashamed of them, we don't know it, but we assume for cheap political points, giving in to those against whom these fighters fought, that they would rob our Serbia and our citizens for another month or a day. That's the end of it. Of course, the SNS in the voting day will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71482	Thank you. We are moving to the list in order of MPs according to the application for a word. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Mr. Zukorlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71483	Ladies and gentlemen, most respected present, it certainly is necessary to support the rise of the proposed memorial center. This is an opportunity to face the topic of crime. In fact, it is in the biological nature of man to react to the dangers of him and to react reflexically to any evil that has happened to him, whether it happens to him or it can happen to him. But as in the nature of all other biological reflections, they in themselves do not represent value. So if you react either defensively or by conviction or by any other act, it's perfectly normal and natural, but it's not considered to be a special virtue, because animals react in the same way when they're threatened. So it would be very important, in addition to this level of attitude towards evil, crime and any danger, to force ourselves to deal with the subject of crime at a higher level, and that means above all human level. That individual, that community that manages to treat evil and crime ethically differently, better quality, phenomenal universal and principled, which means that we are always defined against evil and crime and in terms of prevention, but also in terms of conviction, as well as in terms of the recognition and award of pythium to all victims of every crime, is actually what deserves special attention and what a different future can be built on and what, in fact, represents a real human vertical. So it's my call and I want to point out that definitely this country has, I believe, strength or must be able to, at least through dominant political factors and in this Assembly, but also at all other levels of public, media, political and intellectual communication. If we want humanity to be what we leave for our children and generations to inherit, then this direction and this orientation have no alternative. In that respect, as I support this proposal, I want to remind myself, here, in a few days, on February 27th, we have an anniversary of the crime in Strpci. Therefore, members of Bosniak nationality and one member of Croatian nationality were abducted, missing, killed, and we have no epilogue nor that the victims were found, nor convicted perpetrators and employers, but also what is unacceptable is the relationship of the competent state authorities to this crime. It is about citizens, or citizens of this country who were not officially at war at the time, and therefore I call on the competent authorities and their representatives to finally turn over the list and to treat ourselves differently both to crime in Strpts and North and Kukurovici and all other group and individual crimes that happened in the 1990s, because such a relationship we will show in fact that the relationship with evil and crime is not a question of whether it was done to me and mine, but that evil and crime is something that we must fight together, in principle, in full capacity and not making any difference. At the local level and in Priboj and in Prijepolje we have a correct relationship as regards state authorities, their representatives and Serbian and Bosniak nationalities, but the state level continues to remain silent and we continue to have a shy relationship. It definitely needs to be stopped, because leaving space to have a selective relationship isn't good. Here, yesterday we were here, so during the holiday we got threatening and graphics of hatred in the premises of the University of Novi Pazar and here in Belgrade. I wonder if the media in this country will treat these graphite equally as graphite that happens to Serbs individually or collectively, wherever in the country or in the Balkans. So we need an equal relationship, a principled relationship, a conflict of order against hate, against crime. Only then can we have a future that won't be as bloody as the one in the 20th century, which we think is enough, and that's why there's a Justice and Reconciliation Party, and that's why we insist on both justice and reconciliation, because we believe that this road has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71484	Thank you. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71485	Thank you. All the nations of the world who have suffered greater suffering and genocide have cultivated a culture of memories and shown their respect for the victims. They're building monuments, they're setting up memorial centers, they're having days of memories, they're trying to write all the victims, and they're writing criminals. The main task is to organise the necessary professional services and qualify individuals for the supply, systematization and publication of domestic and foreign credible data on all victims, including certainly the most numerous Serb victims of genocide in these areas. The necessary data on Serbian victims are primarily basic data, such as the name and last name of the deceased, gender, age, place, time and circumstances of death, perpetrators of crime, number of victims, etc. This implies full insight into the character and scope of Serbian human losses in certain areas in the former joint state of Yugoslavia, which in part or in general inhabited, but still today settles the Serb population. Outside the area of the former common state, the subject of foreign research should be captive, labour and concentration camps, sites, fronts, cemeteries, which contain the remains of Serb people. The aforementioned jobs include close co-operation with scientific institutions in the country and abroad, the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the Matica of Serbia, the Serbian Orthodox Church, relevant state bodies, scientific and professional institutions of the Republic of Serbia, Macedonia, Croatia, the Republic of Montenegro and institutions in Serbia and outside Serbia dedicated to studying and preserving memories of Serbian victims. All of these jobs can be carried out professionally and comprehensively only if in Belgrade, the memorial building of Serbia's "Jad Yours" would finally be erected in a representative location, which would show with its building and architectural characteristics and markings a worthy memory of Serbian casualties during the last century. The Serbian genocide victims' memorial centre in the 20th century would have to be a cult facility, inevitable for every visitor in Belgrade, from heads of state and state delegations to domestic and foreign tourists and school or study trips or vice versa. Unfortunately for us, Serbia has no memorial centre until today. The Jews as a perilous people, except for the "Poor Yours" in Israel, have 15 or 16 memorial centers in the world. We don't have one in our own country yet. That fact tells a lot about us, our culture, our civilizational relationship to innocent victims, our mentality. But it's not about our people, it's about our politicians first. They should understand that raising our Serbian memorial centre is not only a civil, cultural, religious, but also an extremely important political commitment and need. Although Serbs have experienced the most fearsome genocide, our former politicians, as well as current politicians, do not find that the need for an institution of memorial character is too short. They are not disturbed by the fact that both Croats and Muslims have founded their memorials and that they accuse Serbs of alleged genocide with any possible means and propaganda, and represent themselves as the innocent victims of large Serb aggressors. Let's leave that to the historians. But our politicians complain of charges which, without historical grounds, are muddled by Serbs and Serbia, but do not think of what they should do, how, in what way and by what means they should fight for the truth. Instead of one representative memorial centre, our politicians are ready to raise a dozen stadiums, entertain masses and receive votes from populsions in the elections. As the dead don't vote, they don't need any memories. The sad fact is that Belgrade will receive a memorial centre at the Old Fair, but not because the Serbs suffered the most, but primarily because the Jews suffered there. Thank the Jews for making it possible for the Serbs, along with them, to be erected the Memorial center. This Memorial centre, which will be more Jewish than Serbian, the issue of a memorial dedicated to Serbian genocide victims is not and cannot be solved. Only now, when a memorial centre is raised at the Old Fair, is the question of whether Serbian victims deserve the same respect as others, or whether our politicians will continue to support those who facelessly, without scientific evidence of institutions funded by even the state, dare to reduce the number of Serb victims of genocide, as Franjo Tudjman did in his time and how his followers make up. If it was not possible to raise a memorial to Serb genocide victims during the communist government, because at all costs it was necessary to cultivate brotherhood and unity, why should the genocide committed be kept silent? There is no such consideration today, i.e. It shouldn't be. Therefore, the question arises - why are our politicians not today, when there are no more obstacles from times of communism, ready to raise a single and common memorial centre for all Serbs of genocide and crime victims? Will they realize that their sacred obligation is to honor hundreds of thousands of innocent victims? The people expect it from them, and they will show by their relationship to this very emotional national issue the degree of political maturity, human sensitivity, cultural and civilizational attitude towards the innocent dead of every nation and religion, including Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71486	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go. I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure, I must give my word to the Vice President of Parliament. Mr. Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go, colleague Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71487	I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure - the dignity of the National Assembly. What I have now heard from fellow Chevarlic insults the dignity of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Turns out, the scariest thing, that the victims have a nation, an innocent victim. To hear that in the Serbian Parliament, when the Roma, Jews and Serbs shared fate and were killed by evidences, to share victims by nationality and to say that Serbian victims were neglected by the government and this law, it is a shame. Because I don't know that during Vojislav Kostunica or DS, a day of sadness has been marked, it's the beginning of the "Storm" of Serbs, since the SNS every year, whether there were 40 degrees, whether there were 30. Several tens of thousands of people sympathise with victims who have been exiled from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, where genocide and uprising have re-emerged. Kostunica and DS have kept quiet about it. They kept silent about when also regardless of nationality killed Serbian citizens in NATO's criminal aggression in 1999. We mark the beginning of this NATO aggression to show the world that it must no longer happen to anyone. And now here I hear that Serbs are more injured in death than others who have died along with the Serbs. I can't accept that and it certainly is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. We can't look at things like that, because exactly what we're doing is what those who have committed crimes wanted, one crime is considered less valuable than another. No, the victims of holocausts and genocide don't have nationality. Together, Serbs, Jews, and Roma suffered.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71488	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Mr. Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71489	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I support this law, but I must add something. Today history adapts to current political opportunities. The military, the invitation to the memorial, is the best evidence. You invite countries that have committed crimes, but do not invite Russia and Serbia, with the highest percentage of the loss of the population in World War II. That's the best proof. Also, World War I, you put Thaci, Kitarovićka and so on in Paris, and Croatia was unequivocally on the other side, while the president of the Republic of Serbia was sent to the audience. This is proof of my claim that some historical events, crimes, wars are trying to adapt to today's political circumstances. In Earth, 7,000 Jews, 12,000 Serbs, and several hundred Roma died. A major crime, but for me, the former Yugoslavia, both, is the biggest crime against Serbs. It's a memory of the Serb people's skeletons. To declare the former Yugoslavia a mention of the skeleton of the Serb people, you will not be wrong, either in the First or in World War II. In World War I, 28% of the population lost their lives, of which 2/3 of the civilians. In World War II 15% of the Serbian population died, 80% of which were civilians. Serbia and Serbia's people were both condemned by Ottoman politics and German politics in a certain way to have no state of their own, to the extent that they had the inhabitants and territories in which they lived. Their policies later, under various ideologies, were as small a Serb state as possible in the Balkans, and we always looked at large accounts to pay with our own skin. Who drove us to March 27th? The British SOE intelligence service has forced us to pay £200,000, which is less, General Simovic received from this Yugoslavia, he received £335,000, the one making the film "The Vladac", so for £200,000 we sold our skin. The English who installed this for us suffered a total of 0.8% of the population, and the Serbs paid 15% of the population, the Russians, too, with over 15% of the population. Now I wonder, for whom have we fought for? While we fought for others, others fought against us. While we freed ourselves and others and made state communities with the defeated, while we fought for them, they fought against us. We made them states, and they, for example, from one NDH, in a transitional period, to another NDH. A little Serbs are pushed into the Constitution, then thrown out of the Constitution, even out of the state. All of the former Yugoslav republics inherited the Ottoman and German politics and continued to persecute the rest of the untapped people. At the end of the world's most brutal ethnic cleansing, which has not grown in population in the last 100 years, the people wanted the British to declare genocide, I guess because we settled on their combination on March 27th. We must learn something from our historical mistakes, so I say that when big disagreements, small peoples pay with their skins, and most often in the Balkans, it is the skin of the Serbian people. Then everyone we've freed, I guess these outsiders, so they don't get their hands dirty, hires some. Most Serbs were not killed by the Germans, nor by the Turks, most of the Serbs killed by those Serbs. By liberating others, we suppressed ourselves. That's why I say Yugoslavia is the mention of the Serb people's skeleton. In the end, not to break all the rules, not all the victims are the same. There are victims that are particularly valuable and marked. The victim is a victim, but recently we have come to the fact that Serbian victims are slightly less valuable in international relations, that the Serbian victim has no tears to shed. At first I said, in Poland and Paris, it happened, Serbian victims are less valuable. The people who were the most brutal ethnically cleansed, over a million in the last wars, don't live where they lived. The former Yugoslav republics separate, bring the Act of Independence, and then Serbs living in those areas, it happened with Montenegro, declared aggressors, large Serb policies, etc. And then they give them a pedal from those states. What they don't get to kill, it has to run off on tractors. Well, we have an example in Sarajevo, 150,000 Serbs, today you have more Chinese in Sarajevo than Serbs, they are banished alive. Here, now 13,000 graves and it looks like they'll ethnically clean up the dead. That's why I say they're not completely, in terms of international relations, the Serbian victims are equally valued. My message is that we must preserve peace. We've fought enough for others, let's live for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71490	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word is by Professor Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71491	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SDPS welcomes the adoption of the Law on the Memorial Centre "Old Simiste". We do it for a number of reasons. The first and main reason is that the basis of SDPS policy is antifascism. The antifascism that is the basis of our party's politics, which, as you know, is the greatest evil of the 20th century. That evil has not been defeated, and always, it is always to be stressed that it is to be fought against. That's exactly what an important memory culture is. The culture of memory will not come from itself, it must be nurtured, created, respected, and constantly learned. I will be happy when young married couples always, as in Russia, go to memorial centers, wear bouquets of flowers, remembering those who have died, their ancestors, respecting their ancestors. Which means we have a memory on one side, as well as a awakening of a new life. Yeah, it's history and she's who she is. Mrs. Dragas said in her presentation that the people who forget their history were condemned to repeat that history to them, most often in the most tragic proportions. There are no Serb families who have not been killed. Just to get back from the bombing in 1999, the wars of the 1990s, the Second World War, the First World War, not to go backwards, each of us had one of our ancestors or participated in all of these events and we know what happened. That is why I welcome the fact that we are setting up the Old Simishte Memorial Centre. I welcome the fact that they are nurtured and opened by memorial centers but also by those we created in Kragujevac, Krljev and other places, that we restore them because it seems to me that in our forgetfulness we have contributed to a lot of forgetting. Why? Well, our pain is to forget. There was a speech here about whether we were forgetting and forgiving. I'm a supporter of the attitude that we must not forget. Forgive maybe sometimes we can, but we can never forget. Starting from the point of view that the basis of our SDP policy is anti-fascism, I must mention the fact that the Jewish people were killed in World War II, it was genocide, it should be constantly emphasized, and that old people that I very respect, that culture of memory, are very cherished. I was in Israel and I saw how it felt. It is also common, unfortunately, to forget the loss of the Roma. So, one of the national communities that died very badly in World War II. I hope that right now at the Old Fair Memorial Center, we will have just a reminder of the deaths of all the people we had in World War II, but all that was in the previous wars. You know, the greatest danger we have in our country is the revisionism of history. You know, when a man comes to power, when a man wins, he immediately makes history for himself. Let's let go of history to scientists, let go of history to science, let go of our memories, memory centers to people who know the job. Let's finally determine how many victims we've had, which are victims, each victim has his own name and last name. I'm not inclined to share sacrifices by nation, by faith, the victim is a victim. You know, in some situations people were killed not because they were for one idea, just because he was present as a representative of a nation, which he was a representative of some religion and believed, he died. If we forget the victims, then those victims were in vain. So let's cultivate culture, and that's why we need to have a situation where every name has to be recorded, that every family, every single person knows who his ancestor was, where he died and how he died. You know, there's a lot to say, and in my presentation, I'm going to say about revisionism. I love the most when the day of Belgrade's liberation comes, then it's Russia's representatives, and then I realize that Belgrade's liberation except for the Russians has been attended by partisans. Partisans no one mentions anything anymore, and so some, who were the helpers of the enemy, I mean Ljotic and Nedic, my colleague talked about it, the Chetniks, so they're in the first place. They were Partisans and they participated in the release of Belgrade, which we must remember. But there's one more thing, please, we need to understand that all victims are equal, that we can't put them except those who were war criminals. Wanting to support this law immediately, I stress that the SDP, which is the heritage of anti-fascism, welcomes the adoption of this law and will always support all of these laws that mean a culture of memory, which means that there is no division among Serbs anymore, that we leave history to historians, and that Serbia that has taken a good path goes forward. It has to go forward, because it's a way to survive like the ground, to go through these steps that we've taken. I'm not into division. There's a lot of division among Serbs. I did so for anyone who has suffered for the state of Serbia to be his name recorded, and history that everyone, from a small child, to study and to know, and to be proud of their country, of their history, and that all citizens living in Serbia, and there were other nationalities who gave their lives to Serbia. We have to keep encouraging, constantly fostering, constantly building up, and we can't do that if we don't take a serious path and stop being educated through feljeton in the press, in the yellow press, which distorts historical truths, and then it becomes someone and officially true. Let's go history to historians and respect ourselves, because it'll be our only chance to stay in the future. I stress, the victims that have been forgotten can be in vain, so let's not forget the victims, let's nurse the memorial centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71492	Thank you, Professor. Now the word is Joseph Broz. Here you go, Mr. Broz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71493	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, draft law on the "Old Fair" memorial centre, which is before us today, is a confirmation of Serbia's anti-fascist orientation, which in World War II suffered great sacrifices for its freedom, freedom of all Yugoslav peoples and all other peoples living with us today, and other nations are victims of fascism and Nazism led by Hitler's desire to break through all of Europe, destroyed everyone before him, in the space of Yugoslavia. Most of the Serbs, Jews and Roma suffered by the Nazis and their helpers Ustasha and domestic traitors, such as Nedic and his government, who actively participated in the mass destruction of the Serb people. We can't help but think of Jasenovec, the highest death camp for Serbs today, but also for Jews and Roma. In the most playful way there were killed both adults and children, civilians. This genocide must not be forgotten, although many today end history and reduce our victims, instead of respecting the evidence and historical facts of this genocide known to the entire righteous world and Europe, which itself took part in the anti-fascist struggle. An anti-fascist coalition that after five years of fighting Fascism and Nazism has freed the world from this monster, whose consequences are still felt. The world has condemned all Nazi genocide and war crimes. When it comes to the Old Fair, it is an infamous camp formed in the territory of the then independent state of Croatia, a place where tens of thousands of Jews, Serbs and Roma died. The Nazis who first requested the registration of Jews in Serbia executed more than 80% of the Jewish censuses in this camp. Hundreds of Roma died here, first of all, women and children. Later, Partisans trapped at Kozara from Montenegro and Herzegovina are brought to this camp and later from Like from Kordun and Banija. At one point in the camp, there were as many as 7,000 partisans and supporters from the Liberation Movement. All the campers were killed in the most playful way. Today, by turning this space into a Memorial center, it represents our debt to all those who have been killed here. We have no right to forget the victims, and not to mark the space that was a concentration camp, in the middle of Belgrade, where both adults and children and Jews and Serbs and Roma were killed. By creating a Memorial centre that has the task of keeping all facts from oblivion and reminding us of all victims of genocide against Serbs, Holocaust of Jews and... . Over the Roma, it comes at the right time because there are many attempts to ignore and dissipate every victim and every male victim who was killed, just because he was a member of a nation, Jewish, Serbian or Roma. The Nazis saw us as lower races, and their genocide was that we were gone and gone. That is why I believe that this Memorial centre will ensure that in an institutional way, the expertise is thematically and continuously collected in one place, all historical buildings, all evidence of a loss, but also cultural heritage related to the Nazi camp "Old Simiste", the Jewish camp "Zemun" and the reception camp Zemun. The memorial centre will also be a museum and archive, it will also have an educational and scientific research function, it will be a link with other world museums, the Holocaust, with which it will exchange experiences and construction. I believe that this centre, which will be an institution of culture of general interest, is very well-organized, in the organs will be representatives of the Jewish and Roma people, as well as in the governing and supervisory committee, and I believe that the partnership of the state with the Jewish and Roma communities, through this memorial centre will make a great contribution, to the memory of huge victims of the cruelty of the occupiers, fascists and Nazis who thought they could create a world in which they alone will live. They've been judged and ruled by history, and it's up to us not to forget our victims. It is said that the forgotten history repeats because the memories and giving of all honors, and the respect of the victims who were killed at the Old Fair, is a resistance to that forgetting and repaying debt to all the victims who died in this death camp in the most playful way that can be imagined here. This summer we also passed the Law on the Protection of Monuments, but as far as I can see in southern Serbia, these laws are not respected, monuments are being raised to the enemies of this people, but hopefully, in that sense we communists and socialists support the formation of the Old Fair memorial centre and the roles it should play, in remembering the death camps in which the innocent were killed only because they belonged to the nations, which the fascists wanted to destroy or because they belonged to the anti-fascist movement. I hope that this will not remain a dead letter on paper and that, over time, all these museums and all these historical monuments will be preserved and kept in memory for our new and young generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71494	Thank you, Mr. Broz. The word is John Palalic. He's not there. The word is Mr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71495	Thank you. The proposed law falls within the realm of memory culture and memory culture, which is an extremely important thing for our entire community, for all the peoples of the Balkans, and of course it is one of the special aspirations to be directed, managed and founded by all the values that bring us together and who we seek. On the other hand, this memory culture must be as close to one truth as possible, because today in the Balkans, every nation has its own truth and every nation has its own testimony, and very often these testimonies are in conflict with one another. So it would be very important for us, today it is heard many times, to make one unique, acceptable truth that will be based precisely on the values that no victim should have only an ethical premise, but to be treated as one should be treated, especially the perpetrators of crime should not be treated only as members of a national Corps. On the other hand, we've been hostages for the past 30 years, just these cultures of memory. This memory culture should serve us as a lesson, but not as we have in the Balkans today, to mainly get involved in all of our memories, and to be our main task of mutual stories, conversations, so if you want competitions, because very often we get the impression that we compete with each other who has more victims, who has greater casualties, etc. All the peoples in the Balkans had their victims, all the peoples in the Balkans survived a great accident, and that memory culture as well as this Memorial centre really should serve that goal. What made me happy was that the minister said at one point that after the loss of the Serb people, it would be good to take care of other peoples' deaths, which is really important, because we had, for example, when it comes to the Bosniak people in World War II, including the interrelationship of a large number of victims, especially by the Partisan government in 1945. - In 1946, in Hadžet, but by the Chetnic movements, even Serbian historians testify, and especially the peacetime opportunities in Shahovici, when one whole space was killed in a truly severe injustice against the people of the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In addition to the Bosniak people, however, all the other nations of this area and this country died. Since we are advocates of the rights of national minorities and communities, we are particularly apostrophe to the suffering of the Roma, because in this Parliament very rarely or almost never hears a voice that would protect or demand that Roma rights in some way improve in terms of their cultural memory, their deaths throughout the 20th century, and their present-day influence in our society in terms of achieving their collective and individual rights. All of us other members of minority nations have somehow managed through political organisation to the extent that we are able to establish rights or at least to refer appeals to individual collective rights of our communities, while the Roma community is not yet at that level, regardless of what decades we had to speed up Roma rights both in Serbia and across Europe, it is still lagging behind. Of course, what is a key message and our support to this law and to all other laws, we find it in God's Word, in the wording Koran, where it is said, who kills one man as if he killed all mankind. So we can't measure crimes any other way, but by killing one man, an innocent man, an innocent victim, you killed one whole world. That's why it's very important, today it's also heard that in our education systems we cultivate a memory culture, because while we had great authors who talked about the deaths in World War II, like Ivan Goran Kovačić with that poem "Jama", Skender Kulenović with "Stojanka Mother Knezpoljka", with "Sevo", with "I went the right way for your mother", with Branko Čopić and others, we had a lot less need for what was happening, unfortunately, with these renewed crimes of the 1990s here. The moment these greats, the written words were thrown out of the plans and the educational programs, we came in a position to repeat this nationalist rhetoric and to repeat this ideology of equality or search for it, to make my victim greater than another victim, to what we experienced in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71496	Thank you, Mr. Fehratovich. The word is Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71497	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, as a folk MP who comes from Nis, a little more, let's say, I followed more closely what the Ministry was doing on the subject of cultural heritage. I have to say one finding, which is that you, as minister with the help of the Serbian government, have made a special contribution to the affirmation of exactly cultural heritage throughout Serbia, especially in the border areas where there is always a fear of ending history in a different way. For the first time in 20 years, a network of institutions for the protection of immovable cultural goods has been established in a modern way to serve not only culture, history, but also the tourist offer of the Republic of Serbia. We've heard more than once today what it's going to be, there are suggestions. As far as the other memory centers are concerned, I think this is a good opportunity to mention these other memorial centers, of course I can't do everything, there's no time, but as far as the memorial centers from that historic era outside Belgrade, such as the "12 February" Logor on the Red Cross, in Nis Memorial Centre "Bubanj", "Shumarica" Kragujevac, "Bagdal" Kruševac and so on. As far as these other memory centres are concerned, I think they should also get some special status, or status of national importance with clear programmes, plans, budgets and all that follows a serious network of these called future institutions. That, the embrace of all, deserves sacrifices, regardless of whether they are Serbs, Jews, Roma, but they are deserved by generations who come behind us. Some local self-government, and you know it well, very little separates funds when it comes to culture. It is generally known that this has been going on for years and in this sense they are not even capable enough to take care of such centres. The Social Democratic Party believes that by forming a Network of Serbia's memorial centres with the same performance as you provided for in Article 5, which is where they take care of their use for museum educational, scientific and research and publishing affairs, as well as for manifestations and actions to cultivate the memory of victims. This network shows responsibility, shows that we are giving special importance in preservation and how this cultural heritage should be treated, that is, the cultural heritage of this country, and we are sending a message to the world and the world, above all, to those countries that participated in World War II in the fight against fascism, but we are also sending a message, as I have told the generations to come. In voting day, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71498	Thank you, Mr. Jelenkovic. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71499	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister with Associates, honourable MPs, the theme of the parliamentary debate of this assembly session is extremely important, given that it is a bill that prescribes the procedures necessary for the establishment, organisation and operation of the future Memorial Centre "Old Fair". The proposed law, in fact, creates legal assumptions for the formation of a new institution of culture at a republican level, whose primary goal is to preserve the memory of 11,000 Serbs and 7,000 Jewish and Roma women, children, old and other victims in the former camp. The "Old Fair" is one of the symbols of the tragedy of our country and our people, in World War II and it is extremely important to propose the establishment of a memorial centre, since to date this former concentration camp is not marked as such. I therefore believe that the establishment of the Old Fairment Memorial Centre as an institution of culture is of great importance for the cultivation of the memory culture of victims and historical events that occurred in the area of the former Nazi camp. The proposal is that the memorial centre consists of two continents, the Jewish camp "Zemun" and the reception camp and that it covers the area in New Belgrade, on the left bank of Sava, the area of the former Bezanjska Bar, i.e. The Belgrade Fair, as well as the space of the former "Top's sheds" camp. In fact, the plan is that two museums operate within one institution. It is clear that the adoption of this law is the first step in making this space truly a memorial centre. What is also important is that, after the proposed law is passed, there is a clear plan for its implementation. In this connection, for example, project documentation for the first project is under way, with regard to reconstruction of the centre tower at the Old Fair. It is also good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has provided the necessary resources for this purpose and that the resolution ministry could hear announcements that after the law was passed and the implementation of this first project could soon follow. In addition to remembering what happened at the Old Fair, the task of the newly established institution will also be to collect, arrange, store, exhibit, professionally process, investigate and link museum, archive and film documents and objects. In addition, the memorial centre will deal with organising manifestations of the care of victims, as well as using the buildings for educational, scientific and research and publishing purposes. The goal is also to organise its own archive, library, international co-operation department, which is important to fit into a network of museums dealing with memory culture. I am convinced that the Old Fair Memorial Centre will best tear away all innocent victims of this former camp, including women and children and old and powerless. It's our obligation from the piety to the victims, but also because of the constant reminder of all the horrors of war so that they never happen again. Starting with all of this, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposal for a Law on the Memorial Centre "Old Fair". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71500	Thank you. Now the word has been made by MP Vesna Markovic. Here you go, Mrs. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71501	Thank you. Today's exhibition will be dedicated to the establishment of the Old Fairt Memorial Centre, whose establishment is foreseen by the law we are talking about today. The reason I want to speak on this subject is the death of thousands of Serbs and Jews, Roma and other anti-fascists in this place. This is the last concentration camp in Europe that has remained unmarked, and at first I would look back briefly on the history of this camp. The "Old Fair" camp was founded nearly 80 years ago and was one of the first concentration camps in Europe to bring mainly women, children and older people killed in the gas chamber. After Jewish prisoners were killed, Simishte was turned into a reception camp for political prisoners, members of the Yugoslav army in the country, partisans and their sympathisers. The camp is located on the territory of the then NDH under German police management. In early December 1941, about 6,400 Jewish women, children and old and 600 Roma were imprisoned in the camp. From May 1942 to July 1944, nearly 40,000 campers were captured with the largest number of Serbs killed in the most playful way. So about 11,000 Serbs were killed here. This also reminds us of the genocide committed by the NDH, Nazi Germany and its allies and helpers during World War II, from 1941 to 1945 in the occupied Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In addition to numerous camps in the then NDH, such as Jasenovac, this old fairground camp is located on the territory of today's Republic of Serbia and will finally, after numerous attempts and numerous projects, be able to pay true respects to all the victims and remind us daily of the terrible crimes that occurred in this space during World War II. No victim must be forgotten and the construction of this Memorial center is exactly what the target is. With this state, Serbia will pay its respects and remind the world of the loss of innocent people, whose only fault was that they were members of another religion and nation. The common message of all such memory centers is short and reads – never to be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71502	Thank you, Mrs. Markovic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71503	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law establishes the Old Fair Memorial Centre as an institution of culture based in Belgrade and organises its organisation and work. As we were able to hear today, the memorial centre is founded in the interest of providing organisational, personnel and material conditions for performing the work in the area of museological, and associated with educational and experimental and scientific research activities. Also, one of the goals of its establishment is to preserve memory of the victims of a Nazi concentration camp at the former Belgrade Fair, the Zemun Jewish camp and the Zemun Acceptable Camp, which is to keep from forgetting the fact that this camp exists for Jews, Serbs and Roma. The "Old Fair" memorial centre will work on the reconstruction, adaptation and editing of existing authentic objects in the space of the memorial centre, i.e. the cultural good Old Fair and its protected surroundings. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to repeat that we support the adoption of this law, because in this way we honor the victims of Nazism and their helpers. I belong to the left-wing party, and members of the left-wing organizations have made the biggest contribution to victory over Nazism. I think this continues to be a struggle to prevent the awakening of Nazism and the revision of history. Our task is to preserve the memory culture of the victims of Nazism, the terrible consequences that he has led to so that they do not repeat themselves. By building a center, a young generation will have the opportunity to visit and learn about the horrors of Nazism through the educational system and thus recognize similar ideologies. Future generations need to understand how much the cost of losing freedom and independence can be. It is no wonder that the occupier immediately showed genocide over our population and that among the first in Europe we have just begun the establishment of concentration camps and the implementation of genocides. One of the scariest camps was in the area of today's Belgrade, a territory that then fell under the rule of NDH. In October 1941, the German military administration decided that instead of building a new camp for the purpose, the Belgrade Fair, i.e. its empty and abandoned pavilions. Belgrade Fairground buildings on the left bank of the Sava River did not die during a Nazi bombing on April 6th 1941. The impact waves of nearby detonations, including when the Yugoslav army blew up King Alexander's Bridge, broke most of the windows and made holes on the roofs of the pavilion. There was no significant damage to the facilities, however. The independent state of Croatia has granted the territory at the request of the Germans and has allowed the establishment of a camp to liquidate the Jewish and Roma populations in Belgrade and Serbia. The Zemun Jewish camp was under Gestapo management for Serbia and representatives of the Serbian government had no influence on it, nor could they even be guards. From July to December 1941, mass shootings of Jewish and Roma men who were mostly interned in a military camp in Topovo sheds in AutoCommand begin. The cannon sheds are the first camp to be established by the Nazis in Serbia, and it was named after the location where the artillery tool of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was stationed. It existed from the end of August to October 1941. Although official data has been destroyed, estimates say about 5,000 people have passed through it. It also included Jews and Roma from Belgrade and Banat, where they were led to shooting sites in Kumodraž, Bežanja, Jajinca and Simište. Here, when it comes to Jajini, I would also remind that Milutin Ivković Milutinac, in 1943, a doctor and grandson of the Duke of Traveler was shot for his belongings and because of his left-wing ideas and ties to the communist movement, and before that, only on May 6th participated in the marking of 40 years since the founding of the first football club "BSK". The remaining members of the AutoCommand cannon sheds were killed and all the men of the Jews were killed. The remaining members of their families, women, children and older ones were interned at the Fairground camp. In total, about 6,400 Jews and about 600 Roma were interned. Terrible catches at the Fairground camp led to prisoners dying from cold, disease, and hunger. The first victims of a special gas chamber truck, so-called As a means of mass killing, "souls", were patients and staff of the Belgrade Jewish hospital. They were executed on March 18 and 19, 1942, about 800 of them. After being killed by carbon monoxide on the road through Belgrade, their bodies were buried in a mass grave in the Lambs. This type of gas truck was used in the Nazi euthanasia programme in 1940, which left tens of thousands of people with disabilities and mentally ill. In late 1941 and early 1942, the same vehicle was tested as a method for a "final solution to the Jewish issue" and shipped from Germany to Belgrade. Other Jewish prisoners of the Zemun Jewish camp experienced the same fate. Between March 19th and May 10th 1942, 6,300 Jews were killed in the same way. The occupiers tried to remove traces of Holocaust by burning remains during 1943 and 1944. The bodies were exhumed and burned to destroy all traces of crime. However, there is enough evidence left that we can systematically preserve and present to our international public and preserve from oblivion. After the Jewish prisoners were killed, the camp practically continued to work, but with a changed purpose. In May 1942, at the Fair, he was assigned to the reception camp. It was a camp for political prisoners, war prisoners, the largest number of Partisans and forced workers, mostly further transported to work camps in Germany and occupied countries. At least 32,000 prisoners, most of them Serbs, have been found to have lost 10,636 people. As Belgrade was bombed in 1944, the camp was severely damaged, and a large number of campers were killed, while a small number managed to escape. On 17 May 1944, the administration of the camp was handed over to Ustasha police, although the camp itself was still in service of German interests, under the command of a German officer. The camp was disbanded in July 1944. The last prisoners were transferred to other camps or released. There are fewer living witnesses who have survived the Holocaust, which is why it is particularly important that there are memorial centers in which memory will be kept. All victims must be remembered with respect and piety. Unfortunately, Jews in Serbia have disappeared almost entirely in the Holocaust. In many places in Europe, there are few groups of surviving Jews, who have failed to revive once the lives of Jewish communities. From a small number of survivors, many moved to Israel after the war. The process of falling into oblivion of the victims and the former life of the Jews was continued even in the years after the war. The famous writer Eli Viser once said: “Forgetting the dead would be like killing them for the second time. It would actually mean that the Nazis have succeeded in their intention to completely destroy the Jews, erase all traces of their existence." Because of all this, research, learning and remembering of the Holocaust is very important, not only because it is a civilization, moral and human obligation, but also because learning about our life together with the Jews teaches about ourselves and our own history and we understand it better. The process of adopting modern values, tolerance, non-discrimination, respect for human and civil rights, as well as general civilization values began after World War II after the world faced with the scale and horror of the crimes committed by the Nazis and their helpers, including the unique place of exactly the Holocaust, especially in the Serb people who have a strong anti-fascist tradition and who themselves suffered terrible victims as a target of terror and genocide, as well as in the fight against Nazism. Research, learning and remembering of the Holocaust should be a natural and integral part of the memory of its own history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71504	Thank you, colleague Marash. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71505	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, have finally come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is a good thing that it is included, better even after 75 years, than that we have waited another decade or perhaps longer than that. This is, of course, an opportunity to see how others care about their people. I'm sure that to a large extent and this law is a consequence, above all, of the pressure of the Jewish side. If it hadn't been for that, the question was whether this law would have come to the agenda in the first place. This is also an opportunity to assess the government's relationship to our victims. The victims should be honored, it is something that is undeniable and should be reminded that in 2016 you promised that this memorial centre would be finished in 2018. It's 2020 and it's only in the process of this law. The question is, when will he be put into action? What you were able to accomplish much earlier, though, is that in one of the buildings belonging to this complex, which will now be declared a memorial complex, open a local SNS board, set up banners at the first moment, when it came out in the media, you claimed that you did not see anything controversial about it. However, if there was a dispute, it was soon after you removed those commercials and those banners that were placed there. Despite the fact that you're talking about some drinking towards the dead and toward those who died 75 years ago, you're talking about dead heroes, you and your regime don't see living heroes. In Pioneer Park, 140 days of peaceful and dignitously protesting wartime wartime people with disabilities and war veterans. We just heard from a speaker from the ruling coalition that it took 20 years to pay tribute to those who fought at the Kosharam for Serbia. There over 100 young people died and gave their lives. You pay your respects today, at least on words, to dead heroes, but their comrades who were lucky to survive, who had no hands, legs, and other body parts, you still don't see them. You should, gentlemen, take care of living heroes. It's about showing a relationship with people who have managed to survive. You should, of course, help the families of those who are not, but your words seem empty if you look at your relationship with others. Secondly, it took you 75 years to decide that a regime in Serbia has decided to talk about both Serbs and Jews, and Roma at the Old Fair. I ask the question -- does it take 75 years for Serbia to seriously deal with the loss of the Serbian people during the 1990s wars in the former Yugoslavia? Some more than 10,000 people were killed at the Old Fair and about so many Serbs died in Sarajevo. More than 1,000 people are missing, named after the latest data of over 8,500 people. Only in the Sarajevo area were 123 camps where people, because Serbs were killed, raped, massacred, bullied, beaten, tortured and tortured in various other ways and tortured and humiliated. Who's talking about it? Where is the institute that will deal with this and why does nothing seem to be known, first of all, the truth, that this truth is shown to the world, that Serbs were no criminals, and that Sarajevo was one big concentration camp for Serbs? This isn't about individual cases, gentlemen. It's not about incidents, it's about system-made camps, some private, some semi-private, some held by the military, some paramilitary formations, but in these camps Serbs were systematically taken away and, as I said, killed, harassed and tortured in different ways. There are still a large number of mass graves in Sarajevo with Serbian victims still open. What did your regime do to resolve this issue, to finally identify these victims and be buried in a dignified manner and, of course, honor them deserved? No one does that. It identified 3,567 people who committed the crimes against Serbs in Sarajevo by name. None of them answered. Nobody. Is that a disgrace to the Serbian people? I think it is, and if you are already silent criminals, if you are silent about their Western mentors, why do you keep your mouth shut, why do you people who say you are representatives of the Serb people and victims? (Alexander Markovic: Who is silent? Those who have nothing to say would be wise to keep quiet, but unfortunately, you don’t keep quiet. You'll get a chance to talk. Mr. Milivoje Ivanisevic is someone who may have done the most in this matter, in the matter of gathering buildings and testimonies, which was founded by the Institute for researching Serb deaths in the 20th century. But that's something that should be raised to an incomparably higher level, which is the task of all of us, and that's something that we've long had to collect data and talk about in the world. As long as we remain silent, as long as the Serbian people are ashamed of their victims, we will be the victims. Some of them said here and it shocked me, he says -- victims don't have nationality, victims are just victims. It seems that only Serbian victims have no nationality, as victims of all other peoples and how they have nationality. Can you imagine someone from the Jewish community, from their people, saying - victims have no nationality? No, they, ever since World War II ended, have been fighting for the truth day after day, not with a reduced ferocity. It's a government job with them, of the greatest national importance of finding out the truth and no criminal remains unpunished. Why does the Serbian people not prosecute criminals, and do we thus order that crimes against Serbs are allowed? The minister said they were victims, but there were circumstances. There are too often these circumstances in the history of the Serbian people, and there were circumstances during World War I, including during World War II and again, as you saw during the 1990s. What was not done in NDH, it is a modern Croatian so-called The state, but undoubtedly the Ustasha formation as it was during World War II, did, and yet Serbian representatives remain silent. Do you think something's gonna change? Do you think they'll appreciate us more if we keep quiet about our victims? Do you think they won't kill, slaughter and banish the Serbian people wherever they can if we keep our mouths shut? The task of all of us, we don't have to make party divisions about it, it's a question of where to make a consensus, is to talk about it, to teach both children and grandchildren and everyone we've suffered and who we've suffered from, to clearly lift our forehead and condemn crime and criminals at all times. No shame in being a victim, no one chose to be a victim, but it's a shame to keep quiet about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71506	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, as an authorised representative of the SNS, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71507	Thank you. The Serbian Progressive Party, the government of the Republic of Serbia, does not shut up about Serbian victims, speak openly and openly, together with the people mark all those dates that were tragic in the history of the Serbian people. Every year we mark the Day of Remembrance of NATO bombing of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, which began on 24 March with a criminal NATO bombing in which some 2,000 civilians lost their lives, in which 70, nine children were killed, in which more than 6,000 civilians were wounded. Therefore, we are not silent about the victims again during the marking of this tragic event, of the tragic and monstrous bombing of NATO's aggressor of the Republic of Serbia last year in Nis shoulder to shoulder with leadership and the people were veterans who defended our country when we were attacked by 19 NATO countries. So we don't keep our mouths shut about it. As far as the crime is concerned, we also condemn every crime committed on behalf of the Serb people by one of us to another people, and this was shown by our President Aleksandar Vukic when he went to Potocara to bow down to Bosniak victims. In front of the victims, he got his head down, but after that he was attacked, practically his life was in danger. To this day, no one has responded to the assassination attempt, but Aleksandar Vukic has had the strength to go to Potocara and is also talking about the murder of Serb civilians who happened before that in Kravica. (President: Thank you. I also want to say that the people are not the ones who are chasing criminals. Serbia is a democratically decorated country, institutions are the ones to deal with crime and prosecute criminals and prosecute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71508	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. Necessa Sarovic. (Alexander Markovic: On what basis? ) Because he has the right to comply with Article 104. Here you are, Mr. Sarovic, in accordance with Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71509	Mr. Chairman, you know, as some people speak of themselves, speak of their past, so will others. As we respect our victims, so will others. You claim from the ruling coalition that you respect our victims and speak of them. Here I'll remind you of one fact. Three years ago, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia formed a Commission tasked with investigating the consequences of NATO bombing. It's been three years, the term of office of this assembly's summons, the report is gone. It's a relationship to the victims. Secondly, the victims are not only the ones who died, and even after 20 years of NATO bombing, the final number of deaths has not been established. Is that victim respect? It has not been established how much material damage they have done. It has not been established how many people died of cancer and other diseases caused by the bombing of poored uranium. More Italy has done in forming these commissions and making judgments than Serbia, Italy, has done as a member of the NATO Pact, but has protected those involved in the aggression and died on that occasion. You're talking about the relationship to the aggressors. Do you know the name Tony Blair? Do you know the name Shredder? Who are these gentlemen? Are these people who are some benefactors of the Serbian people or are they the ones who led the countries that killed the Serbian people? They are in the position of special advisers in Serbia today. Serbia supported Bill Clinton's foundation, the man who launched the bombing to distract the American public from the private sex scandals he was making. (President: Thank you. I'm done. Why did Serbia support and pay for this? Well, because someone was smart.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71510	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71511	Article 104, Mr. Chairman, which you mentioned earlier. Now, I'd like you to open it and read it. One reason he had no reason for Nemanja Sarovic to get the word, and you could assume what he would do and what it would serve. Nemanja Sarovic throws. Here, about this a little while ago. So, that Nemanja Sarovic, who seems to have just said to me that these aren't the topics on which party policy should be run, who said in 10 minutes of his speech, and the previous nine dedicated precisely to the island of SNS, and he doesn't even know why, to get up here and now, imagine to us, to transfer something to the subject of NATO bombing, to us who formed this Commission that he was talking about, to us who are reporting on the activities of the Commission, which he doesn't know about because in principle he doesn't know anything, doesn't come to the Assembly and that's one of the reasons, and ultimately to accuse us that we probably support what happened to Serbia, what happened to our people and ultimately to spice it with – because someone smart. Mr. Chairman, I am speaking to you, the need for Mr. Sarovic to speak out loud every time that Nemanja Sarovic is not smart enough to keep it to himself. I ask you with dignity to continue this session, with dignity were spoken by all our MPs today and we intend to continue exclusively in that tone without meeting the needs and urges of Nemanje Sarovic. As anyone who speaks today in this room speaks best of himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71512	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. There is no Sarovic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71513	Mr. Marinkovic, if it wasn't for this great pressure on you, I assume you would have interrupted the previous speaker and not allowed such insults to amount. It is something that has become manipulative and has become common among members of the ruling coalition to satanicize opposition representatives in every way. (Alexander Markovic: Which member is injured? ( ) A member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly and who prohibits the direct address of each other. It is normal for you to have an MP and a ruling coalition tell someone from the opposition that he is not smart, that he is finding something like that. If Vladimir Orlic says I'm not smart, I'm not smart, but he's a picture of both opportunity and intelligence and honor and dignity of the SNS. You have a problem, as you say, with Nemanja Sarovic. You don't have any with Nemania Sarovic. You have a problem with facts. You have a problem with me having enough courage to tell you the truth in your face culturally, nicely. Your truth hurts. Was there anything I said wrong? It's nothing wrong. Serbian citizens know best whether Blair is a special adviser and whether Schroeder is a special adviser and whether Alexander Vukic said so - I supported Clinton because I am smart. There, however, Tramp, who at the time supported only the SRS, defeated him. You laughed when we supported him, and as you can see, we had a much better political vision than you have. You're the only thing you know how to insult, you know how to disrespect, you know how to communicate. You're talking about how powerful you are, but look, you don't seem powerful, so why does every word, every exposure hurt so much, why do you jump like a broken one if you're so powerful?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71514	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71515	Article 103, Mr. Chairman, and feel free to apply it, as it is said, with the same criteria, the same arches and the Nemanja Sarovic, that is, his parliamentary group, and here I am now, the MP group I belong to. This member of 103, among other things, says that when something like this happens a moment ago, he will rise up as a MP to advertise something about the Rules of Procedure, but in fact he only replicates. You then act accordingly to that member, as regards the remaining time for the debate of his parliamentary group. I think it was necessary here because Nemanja Sarovic just did it. He wanted to talk about what Aleksandar Vukic was doing about the gathering organised by the Clinton Foundation, which concerned Srebrenica. So to remind Nemanja Sarovic and anyone else who wants to show us how smart he is or isn't smart, it's just his thing, but how much he can insult Alexander Vukic and Serbia he's supposed to belong to. So there was talk of events in Srebrenica and there was no Alexander Vukic to tell our truth and to say that those who claimed that Serbs had committed genocide there were wrong, who else would have said that? So that Nemanja Sarovic might not go there to tell the truth about the Serbs? We all know how big a political factor it is, we all know what that courage is that's going to be. That is why, never, but literally never, him or anyone like him, have we seen that in a situation where it is difficult, where it is hard, it represents the interests of the Serb people. It can happen here in the National Assembly where there's such a great dictatorship, that a man shows up after the cappuccinos and talks about what comes to his mind, and everything on account and on the burden of the Serbian government supported by the SNS. To go where Alexander Wolfie went, so that's absolutely impossible. So while we're dealing with protecting our interests, while we're defending the truth for our people, these and these are advertised, that's all they think, on our account, trying to accuse us of everything they're not capable of even saying with half-vote, let alone doing it where it's necessary. Unlike them, Alexander Vukic can, unlike them, SNS can. Pointing to that in those places where it is difficult, we deserve today's Alexander Vukic to respect the political representatives of Serbs living where the Serbs were most difficult in these times they were talking about. He's respected, he's valued, he knows he's capable of choosing for them some of their interests. And these and these, you know who appreciates it? They're not appreciated by their MPs' group either, here, you see how carefully they listen to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71516	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. We'll break up here because we've gone far. No Rules of Procedure, no abuse of Rules of Procedure. It's not an absolute topic where either of us chairmans will allow some war to be waged here in the O.R. and we'll completely walk away from the topic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Marinkovic, you have to give me your word. You can throw as much as you want, I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71517	We're going back to work. The word is Mr. Alexander Markovic. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. He can't do it after he crawls. We can't go back to what happened now. [[Nemnja Sarovic: What does the break have to do with the Rules of Procedure?]] (Inea Sarovic, throws without a microphone) I interrupted her precisely because of that. Call me after Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71518	Thank you, Chairman. Let me tell you right now, it won't take me ten minutes as a previous speaker to realize that when it comes to this subject, it doesn't need to be a party division. It's sad when someone even tries to use a theme like this for day-to-day political purposes. How can I tell you, it says a lot about his education and his decency. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I don't think there's anyone who won't support today's bill of law, so the proposal for a Law on the Old Fairment Memorial, which provides for the creation of an institution of culture, which we cherish the memory culture of victims and historical events that took place in the area of the "Old Fairst", as well as the premises of the Nazi camp "Jewish Camp Zemun" and "Acceptive Camp Zemun". We can see from the Bill's proposal that the Old Simiste Memorial Centre will, among other things, carry out tasks of collection, collection, storage, exposure, maintenance and use, then professional processing, research and presentation of museum archive and film documents and objects, then educational and testimonial, scientific and research and publishing affairs, as well as organise events and actions to cultivate memories of the victims of the "Jewish camp Zemun", "Acceptible camp of Zemun" and "The Jewish passing camp of Belgrade – Topolska forest". It is important to point out that by establishing this Memorial centre, we will preserve memories of the victims of Serbs, Jews, Roma and others in the past and remind ourselves that the victims should not be repeated. Also, by passing laws, we provide data collection, processing and providing these data in a unique way in one place. If there is a people who know what empathy or compassion is when it comes to victims, then it is the Serbian people. If anyone knows what suffering is, it's the Serbian people who are among the most suffering people in the world. I wouldn't specifically suggest how many victims we've suffered in the Balkan Liberation Wars, World War I, World War II, the 90s. I don't have to point out in particular how many Serbs died in both world wars. Either way, too much, or that we were on the side of the winner in both world wars. I don't even have to remind myself how many Serbs were killed in what's-his-name. NDH – the independent state of Croatia, how many Serbs were killed in the Jasenovac camps and other camps. I don't have to remind myself that in World War II, we even had two anti-fascist movements. That's why I point out the importance of fostering culture, remembering victims, as extremely significant. For as the saying goes, whoever forgets history is condemned to repeat himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71519	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71520	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. It's that I had to wait a long time, but I didn't forget where we left off. So, as you can see, I'm being attacked by the ruling coalition, they say -- they didn't see me in Srebrenica, they didn't see anyone like me there. That's exactly what I'm proud of. Not only have they not seen me, but they won't see me, especially as those who lie about the alleged genocide in Srebrenica do their best to satanize the Serbian people and admit the crimes they committed. You may not see me in Srebrenica, but you will see me regularly in Bratunc, marking the Serbs' deaths, and in Kravica, and there, gentlemen, I will not see anyone like you. And that's exactly what we're different about. One more thing. You say -- you won't see me in Srebrenica, but here, you'll see me, for example, on Thursday, at 6:00 p.m., in the municipality of New Belgrade, at the promotion of the book "There was no genocide in Srebrenica". It's not our job to spray the ashes. It's not our job to mourn other people's victims and keep our eyes closed in front of our own, it's exactly the opposite. Do you think the relationship of someone in Srebrenica changed after Boris Tadic or Aleksandar Vukic went there? Didn't they show you clearly enough what they thought about it? You can't be courting others, mourning false victims, doing something good for the Serbian people. It is the Serbian people who suffered the most in the past wars. It is the Serbian people who did not want war, but was dragged into war and should finally be made clear and loud, regardless of political commitment, that as far as the Serbian people are concerned, they are guilty for war and for every sacrifice, regardless of whose it is, of those who started the war. And Ali Izetbegovic, Tudjman and those like them began, as well as their mentors from the west.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71521	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. With just one comment and a request, this isn't our topic today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71522	It's not the theme of the day, but that's what those in the ruling regime were talking about. That's why I answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71523	Today's theme is the Old Fair Memorial Center. Please, just so you know, I'm not going to let the subject spread any further, with all due respect to your attitude and everything you say. The word has Alexander Markovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71524	They're not other people's victims, the chairman, they're Serbian victims. And that's what I'm asking you to pass on to the previous speaker. It's not about other people's victims. It's about Serbian victims. I agree with the previous speaker that we will not meet at such events, as we have never met before. As for his exposure to the so-called so-called. I must remind myself that before the arrival of SNS and Alexander Vukic to power in Serbia, crimes against the Serb people should not have been mentioned. They shouldn't have mentioned anything like that. In Serbia, there was no mention of a storm happening. When did someone in power mention the Serb death and the persecution of Serbs from "Storm"? It should not be mentioned that hundreds of thousands of people from Croatia and parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina remain outside Republika Srpska. Only with Alexander Vukic's coming to power as a state begins in a dignified way to mark Serbian casualties and Serb victims. And we do it every August 4th as the Day of Remembrance of the Lost in the Storm, but also in other Serb sites. But he wasn't interested in it at the time. Why didn't he ask his Gilas, at a time when they co-operated well, why does Dragan Gilas Serbia not mark the death of its people? For what? Because he wasn't interested in it back then. At that time, he shared some administrative and supervisory committees with Gilas, and he was interested in other matters. And here today, he pours crocodile tears and accuses the SNS of so-called. negligent over Serbian victims. So, this is extremely hypocritical, and I am asking you, the chairman, to react next time in the manner of applying the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71525	Thank you, colleague Markovic. I'm trying to secure a proper debate. Nemanja Sarovic volunteered for the replica, although I still do not consider it appropriate. Of course, the exchange of views, okay, the critical thought and everything, but really the weight of today's topic and seriousness, I think it exceeds those narrow political interests. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71526	All of you, Mr. Marinkovic, are right. But the problem is that those in the ruling coalition don't respect what you're talking about. Neither have I offended anyone, nor have I told anyone that he's stupid, unlike the gentlemen of the ruling coalition, because it's obviously their only argument, insulting someone at the level of the fifth grade of primary school, because you're in pain with facts. You show every day how much it hurts when someone culturally, nicely tells you the truth in your face. I assume that when you come to the National Assembly, you see veterans and wartime military people who have been protesting for 140 days in Pioneer Park. The last time I was, I was asked -- how is it possible for the Serbian state to separate two million euros for Albania, for those who attacked them against Kosharam, and for those who bled, who died, who left body parts for their homeland, that there was no money, no understanding, no media attention? It's a fundamental issue in Serbia. Let the yellows go. The Yellows went into history because they did what they did, because they were extremely bad government. And you carry on with their footsteps. And that's the basic problem here. You've been in power for eight years, and you're still talking-- yellow this, yellow that. Well, who cares more about the yellow ones? You're saying they don't have two proms. They don't. Well, how is it possible that they are your excuse and answer to all the problems in Serbia? Are you able to solve anything or not? How long will it take? Eight years isn't enough. 28 more? You say no one was allowed to mention Serbian casualties. She is bold, Mr. Markovic, the Serbian Radical Party, whose long-time member you were, but the problem is that you have this partial amnesia and you don't remember many things from your political life so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71527	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Alexander Markovic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71528	The yellow ones are interested in them. The yellows are very interested in him, the previous speaker, because he's with them in the Old Town coalition. And today, at this point, while we're sitting and leading this controversy, he's in the Old Town coalition with those yellow ones, with the same Mark Bastic, and several other municipalities. When it comes to marking Serbian casualties, I will repeat what I just said, and the previous speaker who reminds me of my past is only right in one piece. Yes, but that marking of Serbian casualties was then a parastos in the Church of St. Mark, a gathering of refugee associations, a gathering of people who lost someone directly in those actions and in those crimes, a parastos, and that's it. I'm talking about system access to this problem, system state access. We have raised this to the state level, so the state of Serbia in the most dignified way is marking Serbian deaths, crimes against Serbs, and we are not ashamed of it. We regret, we are taking part in the pain of people who lost someone and we are not ashamed of it, which was also spoken of by an authorised representative of the SNS, as we mark every 24 March as an anniversary of Serbia's bombing in 1999, and we are not ashamed of it. But we also do not miss the opportunity to tell our people wherever he is, that we will not allow new "Storms" that Serbs will be protected wherever they are, when it comes to countries in the environment. So, it's a responsible policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic, and there's a fundamental difference between Alexander Vukic and those you supported while leading Serbia, and it didn't occur to them to remember Serbian victims, which I was just talking about, while you were sitting with Dragan Gilas in the city government, and I don't know what you were doing, sharing boards and boards of directors, because that was interesting for you at that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71529	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71530	Mr. Markovic, you have to do something against this partial amnesia to do. So, I will remind you that the SRS has never been in a coalition with Gilas, but that Gilas has given more than a million euros from the city budget to the Justice daily, which was your party's vote. That's a fact. I, here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, showed the documents and evidence I received from the National Bank of Serbia, based on my requests for a law on the availability of information of public importance. So you were in the coalition with them then. You are the ideological clones of the DS, so the yellow ones melted, you took over everything they did, you took over this pro-European policy, you took over the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, and worse, more brutally and more restrictively you applied it, and you took over a number of personnel. Secondly, you're talking about coalition partners, you resent Bastac. Why isn't Bastac arrested if he's a criminal? What kind of regime are you when all your criminals are in charge when there are no criminal charges, when there's nothing? That's what the question is. Third, you're talking about a coalition partner. Did Bastache kill anyone? Did Bastache bleed his hand, not to his elbows, but to his shoulder? You're in coalition with Hashim Thaci, with Ramush Haradinaj, with Albin Kurti, you're in the coalition. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71531	I don't know, I didn't even look at him, but I don't... Nemanja Sarovic: Is that false? You really, in addition to insulting your colleagues from the largest party to parliament, have offended the National Assembly, you have offended me as chairman. Nemanja Sarovic: I have the right to say. None of us are in any coalition with people who are not allowed and who are on the arrest warrants of the Republic of Serbia. There's no point in what you're doing. I'll avoid any warning or punishment. Right on the line, Alexander Markovic. It's not right. It's really not right, it's not correct, it's not statesman's on your side. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71532	The previous speaker says he has never been in a coalition with Dragan Gilas. The chairman, the whole of Serbia, knows that he was in a coalition with Dragan Gilas from 2009 to 2012, in the Belgrade City Assembly, without the agreement of the president of his party. So, on his own, he joined the coalition with Dragan Gilas, divided administrative and supervisory committees. There are particular data on people who were appointed by the City Assembly to join the boards of directors and supervisors, and during the period when Belgrade was destroyed systematically, when Belgrade's budget was destroyed, when the most expensive bridge was made, when they were an affair. An affair to reconstruct King Alexander's Bulevar, an affair called "Pazlgrad", an affair to install underground containers. Sijaset's affair was, every day, a new multimillion-dollar, corruption affair between Dragan Gilas, where part of responsibility is borne by a previous speaker who participated in the government, therefore. But when we talk about coalitions, the chairman, the previous speaker knows only about the coalition with the money, the coalition with the euro, the coalition with the cappuccino and the coalition with the cafes where they will drink the cappuccino of those euros, I think it's 19,000 euros, but I wouldn't be entering some small intestine right now. They're coalitions he's interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71533	Thank you, colleague Markovic. I'd also like to ask my colleague Sarovic to close this circle of replicas. We really went too far. Instead of being united at a celebration of 12 years from the so-called the declaration of independence of the so-called ‘independence’. Kosovo, we're talking about Gilas today and some bullshit when I'm talking about the memorial center. Please, let's just act stately, and I'll ask you and my colleague Markovic. Let's move on. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, the SRS. Here you go. Please, Mr. Sarovic, collegiately please. Really, so we can function normally today. It doesn't make any sense anymore, you just don't get along, and I have to hang up sometime. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic throws out of place. No, that's not true. How many times is the last Verica Radeta or Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic left. Here you go. Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71534	Mr Marinkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Old Fair is a place of unremembered suffering, suffering and tragedy that took place under the Nazi German and Ustasha Croatian authorities and today's initiative, i.e. this legislative proposal came with, I would say, Mr Minister, a delay of more than 60 years, you will agree. Many, for those of us who have been in politics for a long time and who follow various committees, the ideas, the interactions of opinion, there have been a lot of controversy in the public, whether and how to set up, under what name this Memorial center. The Serbian Radical Party certainly supports this, but also because of the fact and because of the various other views that have been going through history and through this National Assembly, where some delegates used to sit, and only after the 1990s will of the people chosen, simply and the descendants of the victims of this incredible suffering and torture of Jews, Roma and Serbs at the Old Fair, have to know, although many of them know it, at least the elderly, that it was not better, Mr. Minister, to do such a thing, because it did not fit in political structures. That's where we have to make it quite clear. Now, there's one background here too. In fact, this government is in the process of European integration that the SRS is fighting. We believe that we do not belong in the EU, but we have become part of an international organisation that is founded to remember the victims of the Holocaust. It's all right that it's not hypocritical by those who have also joined it. You remember when Plenkovic left, and Mr Marinkovic knows that he honors Jewish victims and signed up for the book, but, you know, Ustasha Croatian government has never shown consideration, nor, according to the victims and genocide they have committed over the Serbian people. Here, said colleague Vukojičić, and the data is clear about where all Serbs were dragged, when I must say, from like, Kordun and all sorts of places where the Serb animal is to be together with the Jews and the Roma in the most terrible way tortured and executed. One more thing, some methods of torturing these victims through the Old Simishte are along with so many victims that you have listed here, many people have gone through, they have executed some and others, these methods and are individual by those who have not wanted to take care of this for decades on the island as well. So, the way they're going to be harassed from morning till nightfall, starve them, and do everything, and eventually end up being executed most painfully. Although you said earlier, colleague Marinkovic that this is not a topic, let's look back, however, because we support this proposal both on the current historical context and on what hurts us as people of this age now, and what happens directly or as we say, because for history, there is a short period, back 20 years. Serbia must, Mr. Minister, have an exact provision for what happened to our people, brave volunteers, to honor both the SRS and all others and the regular Republika Srpska Army and Republika Srpska's fighters and to know, as it is in Republika Srpska, that it is officially said to be a Serbian country war. We folk MPs from various parties hear that they speak somewhat of it. It was a Serbian country war where we suffered many victims, we are the most suffering people in the Balkans, and we have proven despite everything that has been tried to place on our backs and arrest our military and political summit, by taking us to the anti-Serbian Hague Show, that we have defended our property, that we have defended our hearth and that there has been no genocide in Srebrenica. All those sacrifices submitted by the Serbian people are not properly respected today in the state of Serbia. You say it, it is, but it's not all enough. We have to talk about this constantly because of future generations. There are Serbian country war fighters and heroes who still today have no streets in my native Kragujevac, both in Belgrade and Novi Sad and in other cities. About their victims and their heroism, I will only mention some of them and these are Lieutenant Veljko Milinkovic, Radenko Galinac, Lieutenant Bosko Peric, who was a real hero of "Posavina". Serbia's radio-television has never said a single word, they have never been recorded a single show, and we live in a country where today, through subscription and through direct budget giving, their programme is funded. Then how will the future generations, because you called with the right that this is an institution of culture that should have such meaning, historical, scientific and all others. We have responded to the amendments where we thought that these terms and the provisions in the law needed to be complemented, but if there is no such unity, and if we, right now, these benches are empty, we have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia MPs and those who are now going to boycott, tomorrow or some other time they will say, we want to go to the elections, but they appear in public with all the traitors of the Serbian people are in agreement with the shows where they are visiting, with those disturbed women in black, with Natasha Kandic, with all these traitors, they get along well, and then you talk about some, on today, trivial things, you mention some nonsense that are not related to the SRS, just when you were answering and colleagues Sarovic. We are a party that knows that the Serbian people have always succeeded through the centuries and after so much suffering to rise from the ashes. Did it take a hundred years to mark the Great War, and then to go ahead and list the victims? The question, Mr. Minister, for you and your associates, first of all, for the Government of the Republic of Serbia in what way will and will it be sufficient to finance this Memorial centre? You know that the Museum of Genocide, which was founded, I think twenty and how many years ago, and today with modest means, is written in law, but it should really be something that doesn't depend on any international projects, on this association that I mentioned earlier, because for future generations, to leave what is real history, communists have distorted history for decades to represent the people. Those who before you wanted to establish this centre also had some historical contexts, you who are from the SNS pushed Boško Obradovic as Scott's MP here, so only then, since we raised our voice against such Ljoticevic and activated what the role of Dimitri Ljotic was in the history of this people, was it then that you began to speak Ljoticvac, like this. So, don't let future MPs of your party, however you like, but after all, we have what is our firm stand, speak, or you, while you're still here in this assembly, to transfer anything to us. As a party that has existed for 30 years in this multi-party, we were the only ones who have always been responsible for all the sacrifices that happened here in our country, but above all, you have to respect the great sacrifice suffered by the Serbian people, and only then do you realize how difficult it is and to feel compassion for all others who have suffered under the Nazi German and Ustasha Croatian states, but not to be hypocritical and not to court those who do not wish us well. No small Schengen, Western Balkans and nothing like that will erase the sacrifices we have suffered over 50 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71535	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Mr Vladan Vukosavljevic. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71536	Here, you asked me a question, so before I answer directly about the figures in question, just a brief review of the opening part of your presentation. So it was also a question of whether and how much we've done as a state in the last few decades regarding the preservation of a memory culture? Many things have been missed, if we are aware, and I think that we are mostly, with nuances in differences in political interpretation, for decades the question of Serbian victims has been, if not marginalized, one smaller format and, of course, a clear symbolic and practical explanation of many circumstances. One of these examples is, this is neither time nor place, I will only briefly mention, is a monument in Jasenovac, which is relatively unclear symbolic meaning or may have some distant symbolic connotations with the place of one of the greatest horrors, if not the very greatest horror of the entire history of the Serbian people since its existence, during its existence. However, you know how, if some classification has burdened certain circumstances for ideological or political decades, it is difficult not to admit that there are no shifts. Maybe these shifts aren't that pace and intensity that many of us might want, but the ice is melting, things are going in the right direction. I reminded myself recently that five years ago, I don't know if I was the first, but perhaps among the first in the public, I mentioned the idea that one street in Belgrade must be called the name of Blagoje Jovovic, a Serbian hero who committed the assassination of Antu Pavelic in Buenos Aris, about his own clothes and bread, without UDBA, without OZNA, without anyone, alone, risking his life and as a consequence of that assassination, Pavelic died, as he liked it in torment, two years later in a hospital in Madrid, with General Frank, his friend. Blagoje Jovovic has a street in Zemun today and it is one of the shifts. I believe that even in the years ahead of us, this culture of memories, among which the questions is that someone you set in motion, will get their rightful place in our society. As for the second issue that is more financially specific, to finance the future work of the Old Fair Memorial Centre, it is proposed that 28 million be allocated for 2021 in the Republic of Serbia's budget, 39 million for 2022 and also 39 million for 2023, with that being the cost of the institution of culture, by providing additional funds for reconstruction, adaptation and recovery of the Central Tower in 2021, an amount of 186 million dinars was proposed. This is about construction works, rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Central Tower, or pavilion, and when it comes to these sums that I mentioned, it is a proposal for cost assessment in 2021, 2022 and 2023. These costs were made on the basis of an assumed number of employees, on the basis of an imaginary mission and a vision of the work of the museum and on the basis of costs available to analogue cultural institutions, i.e. analogue by number or volume of employees. These are, therefore, projections and they can be adjusted to more, I suppose, only if the need arises, so that in terms of funding, it has been taken into account and I believe that when planning the budget for next year, these sums will be taken into account and possibly increased in line with the possibilities of the Serbian budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71537	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The right to comment or replica has Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71538	It's a key aspect. If this Memorial center, as mentioned here, and we have even complemented it, has as an institution of culture a complete function that is related to both educational and scientific research work, it cannot depend on the will of a future individual and that we are now thinking, as we had not, but there has been a shift, but it is not enough, as when the Law on funding was passed and the Mother of Serbian and other cultural institutions of the highest importance. I just did this little digression, because when the Genocide Museum was formed, it was grandiose promises. I'm just going back to it, and we've come to it that it's just, I think two or three employees, correct me if I'm wrong, with very little working conditions. I am not happy with the work of the Museum of Victims "21st October" in Kragujevac, because it could be raised to a much higher level, because it is not just "21st. October" the day we should mark the memory of these victims and make it politically useful to someone at that time. It can't be a floscule anymore, and that's why I've mentioned these heroes of a new age. After all, to shed light on certain aspects of history, and especially the great roles of General Draža Mihajlovic's Cheetah, we, Mr. Minister, have set a monument to Svetina Misite, in Loznica since the old days and every year we mark the day that Loznica was released, it was the first under the command of the Chetnik Duke, that is, Colonel Svetina Misite, because it was the first freed city in a Nazi enslaved Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71539	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71540	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Marinkovic, Mr Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia. My esteemed colleagues, the MPs, mainly said about this Memorial center, what they should have said, taking into account the historic spring, and let me thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, which is the first one since 75 years, as someone has said here today, that today we are discussing the Law on the Old Simiste Memorial Centre, and your Ministry of Ministers has contributed a great deal to that, that today in this high House, we are discussing it. As they have already said, it was located at the easternmost point of the Independent State of Croatia, at the request of the Germans, NDH granted the space and allowed the camp to be established, provided that the honourable folk MP Milanka Vukojčić said in the camp not to be Serbian guards and Serbian police. The Germans had management of the camp, it seems to me somewhere by the end of May 1944, and then the command, over the camp, was taken over by the Ustashas. The Memorial center, I underline this, which is very important, the "Old Fair" will be a republican institution of culture. It will not be an institution of culture of the local community, not of the municipality, nor of the city of Belgrade, but of a republican institution of culture, where it will be collected, arranged, preserved, used by archival and museological citizens. That's very important. The centre will deal with scientific, cultural and educational-cultural work. She'll be a scientific institution. I, as a man of the profession today, am not going to talk about it in particular. We'll leave it to the people who'll be working at Memorial today. That's exactly what they're gonna do. The only thing I can put an accent on is that they're highly trained people, people of the profession, because we unfortunately don't have a museologist in colleges, we don't have that group, the archivist talked about it specifically, and so on. So we don't have people from the profession, nor in museums enough, starting with local self-government, whose jurisdiction museums are in, and even in the Republic, etc., especially when it comes to managing the fit. He comes to you as the museum director who doesn't know what he's doing. That's the problem. So we need to take special care of that. As he said, the centre will deal with scientific, cultural and educational work. This is the Memorial center, another evidence of the anti-fascist operation of the government led by the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic and the operation of our country. That's really how it is, and no one can blame it. We heard here today mention that we are not like the land of anti-fascism, invited to mark World War II in Poland. Dear People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are not our place there, there marked the beginning of World War II. It's our place this year to celebrate the Day of Victory over Fascism. So let's light up those two things. I am very sorry, Mr. Vice President Marinkovic, that today there are no political opponents of the Alliance for Serbia. They did not find it appropriate to appear in this high house when it comes to the Old Simishte Memorial Centre. Behold, there are none of those of the Alliance for Serbia and of them who have appeared these days. You see the empty benches. That is what it says about them. During that time, they spread mounted films, lies about Alexander Vukic, SNS and not only about them, but also about the Republic of Serbia through TV "N1" CIA. TV "N1", as you know, ladies and gentlemen registered in Luxenburg, and there is no broadcast program, it is illegal in the Republic of Serbia, which is the most respected MP Marijan Risticevic spoke of in this high House. She's a pirate in Serbia, we all know that. TV "N1" is an unregistered political-financial party, undermining, lies, delusions, half-truths, which every day, satanicises the president of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President's family, the Serbian Progressive Party, the People's MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and, as I said, especially the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and all that he has done for the past eight years. I'll remind you, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how TV "N1" the CIA satanicized "Belgrade on Water" day by day, as it satanicized the rehabilitation of streets and squares in Belgrade, how it satanicized the revitalisation of "Smederevo Irons", remember that unfortunate man Zoran Zivkovic, who told the CIA on TV that "N1" had to be closed to "Smederevo" and to send the workers home. Isn't that right, honourable MPs? Is that right, Mr. Zivkovic, who is now from his comfortable apartment watching this TV broadcast? They've satanized the revitalization of TV Bor. They satanized the construction of factories and foreign investors. Remember Bosko Obradovic, in a people called the bully, what he was doing, forbade the entry into certain factories. They satanized the construction of highways, roads and bridges. They have Satanized Serbia's financial consolidation. Where's that editor of NIN's now, Culibrk, who said the average salary won't be the one to be? I ask him, since he is a man of age, to have courage and to go on TV and to apologize, not to us, not to Alexander Vukic, at least to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at least to those who read his list. I must say that this paper, in its own time, was one of the best leaves in this part of Europe. I am ashamed today that, let's just say, I used to think of one of the greatest Serbian philosophers, ethicists, Vuk Pavicevic. And today it's that list of deceptions, lies from the bottom of the snake. They satanized the construction of schools, the construction of hospitals. Here, you've heard these days and seen last night, TV "N1" the CIA announced and screened a movie last night called "The Ruler." We already knew, according to the announcements, and also last night, seeing that this is the further unremembered Satanisation of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, which is unremembered in these areas. Allow the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia to just remind you of the people who do it. Sinisa Kovacevic, Zarko Trebjesanin, journalist Stojadinovic, not to count them further, to hear just a few words about who Sinisa Kovacevic is. Sinisa Kovacevic, the alleged director on 3 November 2019, said: "The head of the country is a traitor and until yesterday the cattle. "He said, therefore, Kovacevic, and quoted Vuk Jeremic, that they were nicer, better, smarter than Alexander Vukic. It's a finished quote, and that's when the respected citizens sent you a message that you're stupid, and they're just elite. That's that Sinisa Kovacevic. On July 26th, 2017, if you'll excuse the expression, but I must say, I quote, "You've been dicking around the pubs a little bit," finished quote. This is Sinisa Kovacevic, who satanicises the president of the Republic of Serbia. On December 5th, 2017, the Lord said: "He said he did not know if Ratko Mladic was guilty of genocide," a quote concluded. Imagine a dramatist with so many books, he doesn't know the term "genocide". He knows, the respected citizens of Serbia. He is the vice-president of Vuk Jeremic's party, the international group of bandits and thieves in which he was placed. He told us, Alexander Vukic and SNS, on 6 November 2019, Sinisa Kovacevic, quotes: "I will beat. I don't have a clue anymore. We should beat each way, in every way." I repeat: "In every way", finished quote. It is this Sinisa Kovacevic, and further about the journalists who mounted the film last night, I don't think I'm talking about Danica Vukenić and so on. Can you imagine what she's saying? He resents Alexander Vukic for being with his people and his country in 1990. Imagine for them is patriotism's war cooze. So they've been washing their biography ever since. Here I will quote from a book called "Demonisation of Serbs", which states: "One part of scientists, journalists, actors and directors have done, and today also performs Western apology and together with the West, reportedly proved that the US and NATO are right when they destroy Serbia and Yugoslavia," a quote from the book concluded. That's that Sinisa Kovacevic. It's these reporters, Vukenic, last night. They did the same thing. They're going to sell the state and nation for a liver because they've been proving it since 2000. And let's tell that N1 we talk about a lot. The darkest, blackest political party of deception and lies whose delusions and lies include a part of the journalists, whose job is to do everything that is not their business, have turned, are not journalists, into a political party as if they had completed a political course in Kumrovec. Journalists should stick to Codex No.1 on the News Code. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Gilas wrote a letter to some ambassadors these days instead of sitting here with his MPs, opposite us, European countries mudning his country, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and its president, Alexander Vukic. Imagine what he wrote at the end of the letter? I quote: “Do you know what country you are in? “ thinking in the worst land on earth. Shame on him. His 619m euros mean nothing to our country and country. That's the one, Gilas, who called for a boycott on December 1st. He was in a overseas country, returned, and then at a meeting on December 2, 2018, he called for a boycott of MPs. He said this way, and I quote, "If we throw out the dialogue from parliament," imagine who's in favour of dialogue? Is he in favor of dialogue? He says, "When we throw out the dialogue from parliament, then as a society, we have a problem." Further: “This is the place where it is spoken. ” Of course it's where they say it is. Further: “If we stop it, if we stop all the media, ” note, “then it will explode somewhere. ” Who needs this, does Parliament mean? It destroyed parliamentary life in this country in 2000. He thinks he's gonna do it. It'll be, uh, respected citizens, thanks to you for the first thirteenth or the first one ever. Here comes Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who, on 5 November 2018, held a session of the National Assembly, here in this high house, in honour of Aleksandar Vukic by Russian President Vladimir Vladimir Vladimir Putin, then declared it a lie. I quote, "There's nothing out of it," finished the quote. The truth is, respected citizens, as you saw, that Aleksandar Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, was decorated by Vladimir Vladimir Putin, the only one after Nikola Pasic. The honourable MP does not find it appropriate to come here to apologize to you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, Vuk Jeremic is constantly insulting the government of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, the Prime Minister and Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. He said on September 19th 2019, quote: "That our president is a model, a gay prime minister," a quote concluded. That's what he said without shame or shame. On July 27, 2010, remember respected citizens, is one of the largest dates for so-called. The "state of Kosovo" you mentioned here today. On that day, Pristina received a legal argument to push its so-called ‘independence’ until the end. That is why Pristina celebrates Vuk Jeremic, called "The Wolf of the Seed", because Albanian leadership considers him the creator of the most important document in the hands of the so-called "Wolf". "Independent Kosovo". Last night, journalists in that film and what they're about to show, I'm going to re-quote John Swinton, a former head of staff at the New York Times, in a toast he held outside the New York Club in 1953. I quote, respected citizens, you put them in this context: “The job of the journalist is to destroy the truth,” they destroy the truth, “to lie openly, to twist, to be infamous, to be sheltered from the golden calf and to sell their own land and people to earn bread.” Aha, Mrs. Vučenic, for you patriotism is a blasphemy war, etc. They know all that. Then why all the praises of the independent press? We are the tools and servants of the wealthy behind the scenes of Dragan Gilas, Solak and others. We're puppets, they pull strings and we dance. Our talent, our opportunities, our lives are owned by other people. "We are intellectual prostitutes," a finished quote. Dear People's MPs, of course, like my other SNS colleagues, we will uphold this law and serve us with honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71541	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Now the word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71542	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a saying, it's on one of the plates of the Fascism raid victims in Novi Sad. It reads: “It is not the criminals who killed, but those who forget. ” That's the essence of this whole story that we're discussing today. The essence of what was happening to the Serbian people in the 20th century can be reduced to a common denominator. The 20th century is the great famine of the Serbian people. There are almost no people who have suffered as many deaths as the Serbian and brotherly Russian people. In 1914, the majority of the population in World War I had a Serb people. In 1941, the Serbian people had two anti-fascist movements. Both fought against fascism. Definitely, it was the death of a nation. In the 1990s, a more injured Serb people happened again. How did the Serbian people forget all this? By putting in front of him something that was in any case intended to make all the victims forget. The creation of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was an imperative for the Serbian people. Aleksandar Karadjordjevic introduced the Serbian people into Yugoslavia. They were all Croats and Slovenians, only the Serbian people in the largest number were Yugoslav. In 1941, the Serbian people made mass participation in resisting fascists. The mention of 1914 did not in full sense preserve the same and hurtful Serbian people. Why? Because the Serbian people were implying, collectively thought to be known, I guess the world knows what it is and what a nation has made in World War I. Imagine, what a paradox, in France, in Paris, is a monument to a Serb soldier, not Yugoslavia, but a Serb soldier, and after World War I monuments are erected in Serbia that mark a general battle in the First World War, rarely where you could meet to apostrophe the role of the Serbian people or a Serb soldier. I guess it's the fate of a people who sacrificed themselves so much for something that's the highest. It's freedom. To be clear, the Serbian people always had such peace, but when they felt the need to fight for freedom, they always reacted in good time, no matter how many victims they were. The subsequent minds that suggested that it should not have entered World War I are just an additional delusion or confusion within the Serbian people. In 1941, what we are talking about today, the Old Fair Camp was formed on the territory of a state called the Independent State of Croatia, and even in the explanation of the ministry, it did not write to me for incomprehensible reasons. It must be known that the Independent State of Croatia then existed in the right sense of the word, as a result of the Ustasha and Ustasha ideas within the Croatian people. Why does it matter? Because the current Republic of Croatia is a continuity based on the Independent State of Croatia, and it is not hidden by the leaders of the Croatian people. Only so can there be a country of the Croatian people - in Ustasha ideology, and it is based on hatred for the Serbian people, and that is very important. Why am I stressing Srem? Because it is not only in Zemun or in a work involving the current municipality of New Belgrade. Suffering is from Shid via Sremska Mitrovica, via Ruma, through Irig, through the Caves, there were gathering camps everywhere. The victim of Ustasha terror is also a great painter Sava Šumanović and his family. If there's one memorial center being created that should, first of all, unite all of this, when it comes to gathering camps, I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be for the whole territory of Sreme? What's there to be an obstacle? We don't have any such a center in the rest of Sreme. Maybe someone's saying now that it's kind of a history review. No, it's actually a real original history. In Zemun, he was the headquarters of a Ustasha state called the Independent State of Croatia and should maintain that continuity when it comes to historical memory. Not that the Croats are putting us on the compensation bill we have to pay, but they as successors of the Ustasha formation must understand that they should make up for it, if it is possible to compensate for that damage, but that is a short memory for us. Here's another example from more recent events. In the 1990s, in 1995, we are all witnesses, even the US intelligence service of the CIA, military intelligence services publicly provide information and the fact that senior US military officers, whether retired or in any other status, participated in the preparation of the "Storm" action. This was repeatedly presented to the Serbian public, as their contribution to the persecution of Serbian living from Republika Srpska. How's our memory? Not a small number of these same US military officers or US intelligence found their arrest in a company called Bechtel, and they don't hide it. What are we doing? We reward them for successful action, preparation of action, as part of the Serbian Corps has been expelled from Republika Srpska. When we Serbian radicals say, we do not think that we are dealing with individuals, but only to refresh our memory, because while it is a fresh memory, while collective memory is within both the Serbian people and the Krajina and the events, there are few of them who will decide on such a devastating move, and there is no reaction. There is a reaction by being spat on by the resolute minister here, cursing our mother for saying that it makes no sense to give 300 million to the team and such officers who participated, most actively, in the persecution of the Serb people from Republika Srpska. We do not claim the right nor the exclusiveity to just interpret what was happening in the Republika Srpska Krajina, but we have to rebuild many memorial centres, to establish to know what was happening to the Serbian people, not to repeat Srebrenica. You can see the campaign and the hack on Vojislav Seselj, and just because he published the book "There was no genocide in Srebrenica". Don't think it's anything else. They don't like the truth to see the light of day. Here, and the English admit there was no genocide in Srebrenica. It's not denying what's been going on, it's a crime, but it's in any case a negation to the creation of an artificial myth. We were declared Jasenovac a working camp where Serbs went voluntarily to have fun, to Stara Gradiška Serbs voluntarily went to the Independent State of Croatia to spend a certain period there. That's what we've been through. Why? Because we do not have long memories and we Serbian radicals support such an initiative and we want all of Srem where it used to work to be the Independent State of Croatia, in this memorial centre all documents and all data relating to the death, above all, of the Serbian, Jewish and Roma people are collected.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71543	Thank you. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. I'm sorry, Mrs. Filipovski, but the minister called to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71544	I'm sorry, Your Honor. I reacted to the doctor, and that's why he was late for the signal. So, dear People's MP, Mr. Mircic, you're right, I think it will be covered at the Old Fair Museum, but the Old Fair memorial centre is only one of the future, possible localities where a culture of memory of Ustasha crimes must be kept. We can't do anything and no one can, can't, and shouldn't stop this memorial center from being founded in Srem. It was a place of great Ustasha crime, and Sremska Mitrovica, and Irig, etc. There they beastly tired the great Serbian painter Sava Šumanović and a number of famous and unknown people, etc. A map of Serbian casualties in the so-called The independent state of Croatia is filled with bloody dots. Wherever possible, where the Serbian people live, where they have some authority over territory, circumstances and means, they should make such and similar memorial centers, and we will try to make documentation and other things that will remind them of the atrocities in Sreme. What is potential, this is not now, I will repeat from the beginning of my presentation a few hours ago, not time or place, but it is thematically indirect, we have the opportunity as a society and as this generation to think about construction, I think it is necessary, a museum of genocide over the Serbian people in the 20th century, because these genocides were also in World War I by Bulgarians, by Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, etc. Of course, there are crimes of the UN after World War II that must be more fundamentally enlightened and that should find their place in history despite our traditional ideological divisions and shades that are sometimes very rough and very exclusive. As far as the final part of the topic you were talking about, the Ministry of Culture will try as long as it can to affirm the idea of adopting a law banning genocide on Serbian peoples in NDH, because if we can't stand up to society with certain measures of concrete historical counterfeits, it's easy when they come from other or neighbouring countries, the motives for that are known to us and let them do their job, those who think so and on such an ethics stand, but if we are here to meet with historical auditism both in Belgrade and sometimes at Belgrade University and sometimes in the work of the intellectual elite, then I don't see any other way than to law, because the laws serve to control those unacceptable human behaviors, normatively arrange that area. Genocide must not be denied against the Serb people in the so-called ". NDH. If not brains and morality, then at least the legal provisions of that guy will sometimes put someone in line. Therefore, I think that conditions are being created, and I hope that all those who deal with these affairs will bear in mind that we first adopt the law, then work on opening this Memorial centre have never finished the job when it comes to the culture of memory of the genocide of the Serbian people in World War II and World War I. So I see this as one of the steps, after a series of decades of various missed steps, as one firm and large step in one direction that I think we all agree on regardless of the political differences on some other issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71545	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Milorad Mircic is entitled to a replica. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71546	Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that for examples of Srebrenica, Rack and Krtkovci we should simply put our finger on the forehead and imagine what they want you to be well-intentioned. In Srebrenica, it was accepted that it was forced to be genocide. Unfortunately, that decision was adopted by our countrymen at the Republika Srpska Assembly. Now they repent, now they're later declaring what the truth was. Whether it's worth it or not, we'll see, all depending on what's in the paperwork that London, or English intelligence, published. In Račka, a field was prepared to rebuild a fake myth that was supposed to be the same genocide. Read now, if you're in a position, you'll see that it's prepared from the same kitchen in America, only to say that in Kosovo and Metohija the figure is to be revealed that between 50 and 100 thousand scepters have been killed. It's all pre-planned, so Carla Delponte, in doing so, gave a warrant to discover mass graves. When she saw that there was no result that no data could be obtained that would be impressive for the trial of Serbs, she said - in the absence of labour, the discovery of mass graves was halted. When they said that the four thousand people who were discovered, most of them were Serbs, you know what her answer was -- four or six thousand don't change things. For her, it doesn't matter, with six thousand more fittingly suited to her in charges against Serbs. These are some examples where we need to learn, learn lessons. So, Minister, until this is formed around the gathering camps, it would be good, because here in the material, the government's proposal says it's gathering camps, the Jewish assembly camp in Zemun, the assembly camp in Zemun, and many of the gathering camps, so they don't open up in Mitrovica, it wouldn't be a bad idea for that documentation to be united at this memorial center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71547	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71548	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would agree with you if we hadn't finished the job and that this bill on the Old Fair Memorial Centre is actually the first important step that should be rightly marked by the loss of the Serbian people in the 20th century. The historic obligation towards our ancestors and other peoples who were victims of a Nazi concentration camp at the Belgrade Fair is to raise this memorial. This is a terrible place of death where campers were killed in the most playful way possible and in this concentration camp, more than 18,000 Serbs, Jews, Roma and other anti-fascists lost their lives. Why hasn't it been done so far? It's a question that needs to be asked to someone before we do. They had a chance, and they had to answer why they didn't realize it. In 2014, the Belgrade City Assembly launched this initiative, formed a commission whose final result is precisely the proposal for this law that we are discussing today. Our message is that we have to keep a memory of the Holocaust and that we have to fight the end of history that is unfortunately in these times where we live more and more pronounced. That is why Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's support for Republika Srpska presidency member Milorad Dodik's proposal to raise a memorial in Donjo Gradina that will permanently indicate what happened to Serbs in Jasenovac did not fail. We can't be irresponsible to generations that come and that's very important. I would like to point out that recently in Moscow, at a meeting with the Mixed Committee, in fact, with the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, we have just begun this topic and we have launched an initiative to preserve historical memory of the fight against fascism in order to preserve the real truth about creating a free Europe. I also find it extremely important to launch Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's initiative to form a Commission on the list of NATO victims, a monument to Stefan Nemanja, which we have been waiting for over 800 years. It is all our duty and duty to our ancestors, to our historical heritage, but also to young people and their future. All that is happening in Montenegro's areas with the controversial Law on Freedom of Religion aims to hijack Serbian property and which has been gathering tens of thousands of Serbs in Lithuania and outside it for months, then with the proposal for a law in BiH to take the BiH Constitutional Court's decision to law on agricultural land throughout BiH, then the fact that Pristina has been ignoring the implementation of the Brussels Agreement for seven years without punishment. It's not all by any chance. It is all a blow to Serbia with the goal of challenging Serbia's reaction and that, as President Aleksandar Vukic said on a show last night, as Serbia blamed it all in the 1990s. As I said, all of this is no accident, nor a boycott, nor the most ground floor insult for the president of Serbia and his family, a film that we saw last night, which was shown on one television, and all of this represents a sort of division that has been our pain all these years and is one big problem when it comes to the Serbian people. But Serbian citizens trust Alexander Vukic, the SNS believe. They encourage his policy and know that Dragana Gilas and his followers who advocate boycott are actually opponents of normal life and the development of Serbia. Serbian citizens can never forget how Dragan Gilas got rich and how he left the citizens in trouble. This is something that we should point out before this election as well as our programme for Serbia in 2025 and all of this in the fields of culture, history and cultural heritage that we are doing and which is a common and positive result for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71549	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word is Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71550	Dear Minister, with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, I would like, first of all, to commend the effort and engagement of both the City of Belgrade and the Ministry of Culture and Information, headed by Minister Vukosavljevic, that this legislative proposal, i.e. the proposal for a law on the establishment of the Old Simište Memorial Centre, come to the Assembly and that after this democratic debate we adopt this very important law that will certainly be a significant step towards the culture of memory of the injured Serbs, Jews and Roma. The Zemun concentration camp itself is known for its evil. He had his own prehistory in the camp of Topovo forest, a constituency centre, which functioned from August to October 1941. After the founding of the Jewish camp Zemun in October 1941, women, children, and old men were transferred to it, while men had already been liquidated. In its first phase, the Zemun concentration camp functioned for seven months, so from October 1941 to spring 1942, and nearly 7,000 Jews were liquidated during that period. However, my opinion is that there is insufficient talk of the second phase of the Zemun concentration camp, which starts in May 1942 and lasts until the year 1944. In that period, at least 10,000 Serbs were killed in the camp, with nearly 30,000 members of the Serb people reportedly. After the camp was founded, children, women, elderly Serbian nationalities from the Kozara area, from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kordun, Banija, like but also from the area of Srema, Banat and Backa are brought to the camp. The conditions, although formally scheduled to be an acceptable camp, from where campers would be transferred to other camps, especially Germany, were ruled by exceptional cruelty towards prisoners. The result is a large number of killed and dead campers, primarily from infectious diseases, winter, etc. What's important is to point out that this camp is specific to three things. First, we often heard in public that it was first of all an acceptable camp and that there were no other executions besides killing Jews and no casualties. There are data from the state commission in 1946 that only during July and August 1942, 4,500 people died in it, with a wave of Serbs. Those killed Serbs were driven by horseback, by car to the Zemun cemetery and buried there. For decades, there has been silenced by the fact that there is a mass grave of 6,500 Serbs in the Zemun cemetery, a moss from Kozara. I remind you that last May was the first time the prayer gathering was held at that tomb, which I personally attended, and for the first time it was spoken publicly. What is important also is that we must not accept the revision of history and not sufficiently point out that the Zemun camp, apart from the genocide of the Jews, was committed by genocide over the Serb people. It is also very important to reject any possibility when it is said to have been a camp in Belgrade's territory, that it was part of occupied Nedic's Serbia. It was clearly a camp that was an integral part of the genocide and monstrosity of the Independent State of Croatia. I repeat, I think this is a very positive fact that in the National Assembly we will adopt such an important law and I hope that this is one beginning of a systematic approach to fostering a culture of memory of the Serbs, but also others, Roma and Jews. What is important to stress is that we in the environment join a systematic rehabilitation of criminal fascist ideology, i.e. a constitution in our neighbouring Republic of Croatia. Since the very arrival of the Croatian Democratic Community in power and Franjo Tudjman, Croatia has been undergoing the process of rehabilitation of the NDH, a process of rehabilitation of the Ustasha movement that wins at the castle of Croatia's entry into the EU in 2013. Hate and impatience towards Serbs and all that is Serbian dominates Croatia. There are numerous facts that show that the crime of genocide against the Serb people is denied in Croatia and that the foundation of today's Croatia is not anti-fascism, as formally stated in the Constitution of Croatia, but primarily infamous NDH. Also, numerous facts show that in Croatia, Ustasha is not considered to be the greatest villains and villains and the greatest mark in the history of the Croatian people, but primarily fighters for Croatian freedom. Those are tragic facts. In Croatia, you have a scandalous fact that the Croatian Parliament has decided to sponsor the memorial of United Ustasha criminals in Blyburg, because every year there are senior Croatian officials and representatives of the Catholic Church and place venice and flowers on a board on which it writes – in honor and glory of the dead Croatian armies. So, they're not going to lay flowers and wreaths on the victims of civilians, they're going to kill Ustasha villains. Also in Croatia, Masses Anti Pavelic and 35 Ustasha generals and colonels, organised by the Catholic Church, are being held uninterrupted. The Croatian Government is funding associations, prominent individuals who are actively working on the audit, above all, of what was happening at the largest death factory in the Balkans, Jasenovac, so we have, for example, one director, James Sedlar, who made a radical film several years ago about Jasenovac, who is full of counterfeits, who is said to be essentially the largest death factory in the Balkans in World War II was a labor camp, and that he became a death camp only after World War II. This same Jakov Sedlar won the Zagreb Film Award on 19 April 2018. So, just the day 1945, the closure of the Jasenovac camp began. Also, you have the fact that a monument was erected in Sisak for 115 killed Ustashas, and the prayer for the killed Ustashas led by Sisak Bishop Vlado Kosic. Every 10 April in Split, you have a lineup of the Prostajska so-called The 9th Battalion, Rafael Boban, led by Ustasha Marko Skejo. This is where the constitution is glorified, there is the winding of the Ustasha flag, there is a greeting with the Ustasha greeting – prepared for home every 10 April in Split by representatives of the Croatian Ministry of Veterans, representatives of the Split-Dalmatia County, representatives of the city of Split, etc. You in Croatia essentially have four important personalities that are essentially idols in Croatia. It is known for its ill-known commander of the black legion Jura Francetic, a unit that committed numerous and inconceivable crimes during World War II during the NDH. I'll list only an example of the Old Ship near Visegrad where more than 6,000 Serbs were slaughtered. This Jure Francetic is considered a hero in Croatia. He had the highest Ustasha rank of wing. It's a song to sing about. It even raises monuments. The second idol in Croatia is Cardinal Alojsia Stepinac, whom the vast majority considers a saint. When you look at the facts about Aloysia Stepinc, then you see that he is essentially a war criminal who has devoted his entire activity to the establishment and maintenance of genocide NDH. Already on 16 April 1941, six days since the founding of NDH, he visited Ante Pavelic. In June of that same year 1941, Alojsija Stepinac called a bishopial conference at which all Croatian bishops and archbishops invited all Catholic Croats to be loyal to the newly created creation. In February 1942, the same Alojzia Stepinac welcomed Ante Pavelic and all Croatian MPs and blessed them in the Church of St. Mark. Also, he was a Ustasha Vicar, actively involved in the baptism of more than 250,000 Serbs, about which he wrote in Pope Pius 12. For his active work on the preservation of NDH he got from Ante Pavelic and the high medal Velered with the star. At the end of March 1945, so two months before the collapse of NDH, Alojzia Stepinac, at the request of Ante Pavelic, convenes a bishopial conference at which they provide full support for the preservation of NDH. So, this Croatian archbishop is an idol, unfortunately most of the Croatian people. The third idol in Croatia is the war criminal Ante Gotovina, due to known events in the Crime Action "Storm" and actions of the Croatian military and police in Western-Ukraine municipalities. We saw clearly that the UN tribunal's first-degree ruling in April 2011 laid down the facts of what the units were doing under Ante Gotovina's command. Finally, the fourth idol in Croatia and one of the main promoters of the constitution is Ustasha singer Marko Perkovic Thompson, whose concerts are attended by tens of thousands of Croats. These concerts celebrate the uprising, the Ustasha flag, the Ustasha coat of arms. Each of his concerts begins with a famous, evil song "painted" or Ustasha greeting "for home ready". He regularly held concerts in Chavoglava. Now every year on August 4th, while marking the banishment of more than 250,000 Serbs in the Crime Action "Storm" he holds concerts. For example, in 2017 he held in Slunj, 2018 in Glina, 2019 in Split. All these concerts are funded by the Croatian government. And now, imagine at the end of the decision of the High Court of Violation in Zagreb, which at the end of last year decided that the use of the Ustasha greeting by Mark Perkovic Thompson does not constitute a violation and that he does not spread hate and intolerance with that greeting. It would be about as if the German court had decided that some famous German singer, using the greeting "Zig Heil" did not spread hatred, does not spread impatience, does not glorify fascism and Nazism, but that it was quite a normal phenomenon. Imagine the High Violent Court, because Marko Perkovic Thompson was charged with disrupting public order and peace. So he was not accused of inciting a hate crime, as we have one member of the Criminal Law of Croatia, but of disrupting public order and peace, like when two people argue on the street. Even for this disturbance of public order and peace, the High Violent Court did not condemn him, thus sending a clear message that it is perfectly normal to use the Ustasha greeting "for home ready". A similar scandalous decision was made by the Council for Facing the Past, which formed the Croatian Government, which made it clear that the Ustasha greeting "for home ready" is unacceptable, but that it can be used on exceptional occasions. What does that mean? So everyone in Croatia can say - here I am now using this greeting to commemorate the murdered Croatian soldiers, in the ceremony of the murdered civilians, etc. So in Croatia one of the symbols of the monster formation of NDH is legalized, greeting "for home ready". Also, the Ustasha flag, i.e. the Ustasha coat of arms, begins with the first white field, is legally used in Croatia. In Serbia, it is not known enough that they had two coat of arms in Croatian history. So, with 25 red white fields of Ustasha coat of arms, which Ante Pavelic himself has determined, it begins with the first white field. The official coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia begins with the first red field. Whenever you see that Croatians, Croatian organizations use a flag with a chess cart on which the first field is white, know that it is one clear message that this organization, that these Croats promote and glorify the constitution and that they consider the infamous NDH to be the right state of Croatian people. I would like to remind my fellow Members and colleagues of the MPs and the public that both our Diaspora Committee and Serbs in the region of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed this topic and held a session of the Committee last April 22nd to mark the breakthrough of campers in Jasenovac on 22 April 1945. At that session, we adopted a number of conclusions that I believe are very important and whose implementation would further contribute to strengthening, or fostering a memory culture. I think it is very important in the coming period and that this is a national civilization moral obligation, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia convene a special session and bring a declaration of condemnation of the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma at the session. Secondly, I would like to welcome the initiative, namely the joint work of President Vukic and the president, that is, the Serbian member of the presidency, Milorad Dodik, to jointly establish the Donja Gradina Memorial Centre, where a systematic memory of the Serb victims in the largest death factory in the Balkans in World War II, Jasenovac. Since we are well aware that in Croatia the exhibition in Jasenovac absolutely does not show what was essentially happening in this factory of death, but is primarily in the function of reviewing history and sending a message that it was one in a series of work camps. I think it is very important, since we will have this "Donja Gradina" Memorial Centre to deal with Jasenovac, that in Serbia, by modeling the state of Israel, a memorial centre for Serb victims of NDH genocide is established. According to some historians in today's Croatia and BiH, where the NDH worked, there are over a thousand sites. We must not fall into a trap to bring the genocide of the sprawl people into NDH only to Jasenovac. So we need to talk about all the other sites at the same time. I mention only a few of them, the complex of the Gospic camp, Jadovno, Pag, where according to historian Đura Zatezalo, about 40,000 people died, of which more than 38,000 Serbs. Then, you had numerous crimes in Kordun, Banija, Lika, Slavonia and other parts of today's Croatia. I just want to mention the monstrously inconceivable slaughter of over 1,500 Serbs in the Orthodox Church of the birth of the Holy Mother at the end of July and early August 1941 in Glina. Now look at Croatia's relationship to this event. After 1945, communist authorities prevented the restoration of a church that was destroyed during the war, in 1969 a memorial home dedicated to Serbian victims in Glina was established, following the banning of Serbs in a criminal action "Storms" in 1995, the name of the Memorial home is called the Croatian House, where concerts and other events are held, and thus are severely insulted by Serbian victims. So the Serbian victims' memorial centre of genocide would be a place in Serbia where they would systematically deal with genocide over the Serb people during the NDH, where it would be a scientific and research institute, memory archives, exhibition space, erected monuments, etc. The next thing, I think it is very important that, as a state, we insist that all these strategies, over a thousand of them, are marked by Serbia in a decent way and that it sends a message that the cultivation of the memory culture is a civil matter and that no country, and especially one member of the EU, must prevent all these stops from being marked in a decent manner. I think it is important, which is one of the conclusions of our committee, to see where there is a possibility in Croatia, in the field of BiH, to exhume Serbian victims of NDH and to be buried wherever possible, I repeat, in accordance with Christian customs. I think one fact is particularly important. We are essentially talking a lot about genocide over the Serb people in NDH, and we, for example, don't have streets in Serbia, we don't have keys named after the event. I think it would be a very good thing to call, say, a part of the Sava coast ashore or a kea of jasenovic victims, that we have streets called the streets of Serb genocide victims, the streets of the genocide of the victims in NDH. So we don't have streets that, I repeat, will remind us of this tragic period of Serbian history, not the streets, not the squares, not the parts of the coast, say, the Sava River. Also, I think it is important that within that memorial centre of Serb genocide victims, we raise a monument to the injured Serbian children in NDH. It is the only structure in the world that has had a series of camps for children, from Jastrebarski, Sisak, Jasenovac, etc., to build a monument for all Serbian victims of NDH. I think we need far more attention to devote genocide to the Serb people and our educational programs. I think that this is not sufficiently learned in primary and secondary schools and that, by example, we need to approach Israel in a more active way and that our young generations are learning the full truth of what happened to their countrymen during World War II in NDH. Unfortunately, it has been more than 70 years since these tragic events. We are all familiar with the fact that the Republic government has led the policy of oblivion in the name of the false brotherhood-unity, that Serbian victims have been silenced, reduced, denied, but I think the time has indeed come and this is one encouraging initial step for the state of Serbia, together with the Republic of Serbia, approaches, I repeat, in one comprehensive, systematic way, to cultivate a culture of memory and to do more in this direction, which means, I repeat, and by adopting the declaration and establishing a memorial centre and a series of these things that I have talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71551	Thank you, colleague Linta. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71552	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, we have before us a bill on the Old Fair Memorial Center, which has long been awaited, which is a need and confirmation that we have not forgotten the difficult, unimaginably terrible time our people have been going through and, despite all the tragedies, survived. The reasons for adopting this law are more than clear. Crime must not be allowed to be forgotten, as for decades various people and systems have tried in various ways, to forget and cover up the facts of the mass and cruelty of the crimes of the Nazi and Ustasha authorities. The old fair is one of the first concentration camps in Europe where nearly 20,000 people were killed. It was the largest camp during World War II that was created by occupation authorities in Serbia, intended for the purposes of mass internationalization of Jews. After 7,000 Jews, including women, children and the elderly, were brought here and killed, Serbia was declared cleared by Jews in March 1942, in which the issue of Jews was resolved. The fair was then turned into a camp where about 32 thousand Serbs, Roma, anti-fascists and opponents of the system were imprisoned until its disbandment, where more than a third of them were killed. It is our duty, not only to adopt, for the sake of permanent memory and mention of the victims of the Holocaust, genocide, occupation terror and war crimes, in full this bill, which will first and foremost allow not to forget the historical facts of the existence of a Nazi camp in the territory of the city of Belgrade, a death camp for Jews, Serbs and Roma. Founding the Old Fairment Memorial Center as a pledge for the future, not only will we preserve the memory of the victims in the past and keep reminding ourselves that the sufferings must not be repeated, but we will also mark our anti-fascist identity and the role of the righteous. It will be a place not only to memorialize, remember, but also to learn about respect for national, religious, political and all other differences, as well as where generations will learn about tolerance. After the law is passed, there will be no easy work that will take several years. The old fair space in the past was left to care for and use for the strangest purposes that sometimes border even with debauchery. The area has never been seen as a unique locality that deserves to be preserved as a concentration camp space, raised in the middle of the Serbian capital, and today represents a devastated cultural continent, so it is undeniable that the detention is intended to require additional funds to implement this law. Serbia today, after successfully implemented economic reforms, with a constant surplus in the budget, does not pose a particular problem, especially if the funds are needed in the realization of the idea that the Old Fairt Memorial centre will be a place of educational character for people from the entire region who would learn what a Holocaust, genocide, who is actually a criminal, and who is the victim, where they would defend against the revision of history. For the past 30 years, there has been no better time than in the last five years, an indicator of the growing economies and budgets of the Republic of Serbia, and all thanks to the reforms launched in 2014 by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. The result of these reforms is that today we have money that we can invest and run a policy of action, not a policy of words and false promises, a policy that President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS insist on that leaves behind results, which builds and moves Serbia forward in every sense, and the results are more than obvious. Before 2012, Jeremic, Obradović, Tadic, Marinika, Pajtic, especially tycoon Djilas, were able to raise the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre, that they didn't think about themselves, their accounts and their pockets. That's why we haven't heard one word of them about the bill. They care about the victims, the holocaust, the victims of Serbs and Roma at the Old Fair, they care about all our past and even less about Serbia's future. Fortunately, the citizens have not forgotten the past they have lived with and will never allow the same future, which will show in the upcoming elections, which they have long understood. Dear People's MPs, perhaps the words of prisoner Hilda Deutsche from one of her letters from the "Old Fair" camp were actually sent to us in the voting day to adopt this bill: "You don't know, as I didn't know what it meant to be here. I want you never to know." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71553	Thank you, colleague Jancic. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71554	At the beginning of my presentation, I must mention that for the first time in Serbia, some things are happening, and this is the Old Simiste Memorial Centre. By coming to the power of the SNS in 2012, thanks to Aleksandra Vukic, Serbia remembers all its victims with its piety. This memory is related to all those dates that mark the death of our people, and there have been too many of them with the victims of World War I, World War II, in the 1990s, "Storms", in Kosovo, etc. Accordingly, today we have a law on the Old Simiste Memorial Center. This law will establish an institution of culture with the aim of preserving the memory of 11,000 victims, including 6,500 Serbs and 7,000 Jewish and Roma women, children, old ones, who died in the camp. The memorial centre will consist of two continents: "Jewish camp Zemun" and "Acceptive camp", and will include space in New Belgrade, on the left bank of Sava, otherwise the area of the former Bezanjska bar, as well as the area of the former camp "Topovska vaca". The law provides for the preparation, preservation, exposure and professional processing of museum archive buildings, as well as film documentation, the organisation of events, the care of construction, the use of educational and experimental and research purposes. The head of this facility will be the director, and besides the Supervisory Board an international council will be set up whose members may be foreigners or prominent experts from the Holocaust and genocide areas. The Jewish community is satisfied with the legal solution, and it is extremely important that the memorial was entered and the space on which the first Jewish camp "Top's sheds", the space on AutoCommand, which will also be converted into an exhibition space. Addressing you, my colleagues, as well as the citizens of Serbia with a pieté, I must remember my fellow Roma citizens who were killed in the Old Simiste camp, as well as in the Topovske Voca camp. "Top sheds" are part of the former barracks of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia military, where objects for the installation of artillery tools were in place until the war. That barracks, by the way, was named after Queen Andrew. The camp "The Topovo sheds" started working a month after the start of the "Banjski camp". On the monument in Resnik are the names of our 29 fellow Roma victims in the camp at the "Old Fair". Born in Resnik, they were standing with other citizens, hanging out, working and helping other neighbors. Among the victims is the most musicians without whom at the time there was an unimaginable joy in the household and without their participation. When they left, the music had stalled in Resnik for a long time. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that in the voting day we will accept this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71555	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71556	Dear Mr. Minister with associates and dear colleagues, today we have before us the proposal for a Law on the Memorial Centre "Old Simište". The adoption of the law is only the beginning of a process that involves land expropriation, center design, then construction. Our President, Aleksandar Vucic, met with the director of the Centre "Simon Visental", Efraim Zurof, at the end of August 2019 to discuss the rise of the Old Simiste Memorial Centre. President Aleksandar Vucic found that Serbia made mistakes on this centre and voiced hope for faster progress and implementation of the project. The "Old Fair" near Belgrade is one of the first Nazi camps in Europe in which 20,000 people died from 1941 to 1944. This was the largest camp during World War II that was created by the occupied authorities of Serbia. The fair was built in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia as an architectural pearl, a meeting place for all nations of the world, as something modern and progressive, and then used for the direct opposite. Today is 65 years from the disappearance of the camp. In the post-war public, nothing was said about the camp and generations never learned about the "Old Fair". It was not talked about in elementary or secondary schools, it was about other camps, the "Banjica" camp and the "Jasenovac" camp. I wonder – where is the historical and personal responsibility of a whole generation that allowed the “Site” to happen? From Calemegdan, the Belgraders looked directly at the courtyard of the camp and no one could say that there was no idea what was going on there. The camp "Simište", officially called "Zemun Jewish Camp", was located on the left bank of the Sava River, where the first Belgrade fair opened on 11 September 1937. After 6 April 1941, after the bombing of Belgrade, buildings of the "Old Fair" were also injured. Since then, the camp has been located in the territory of the NDH, the independent state of Croatia, which, at the request of the Germans, granted the territory and allowed it to establish a camp. The German Soviet troops were in charge of the camp. After May 1942, when Jews were killed by the midwives, “Juden Fry ” occurred. Serbia was freed from Jews and in the "Acceptive Camp Zemun", as its new name was, were closed with the moss of Serbs, Roma. Roma, Serbs, Chetniks, communists, together prisoners have been arrested by mass. 20,000 people were killed in this camp, and 30,000/40,000 campers went through it. In January 1943, groups of Nedic's Serbian people from all over the Kingdom of Yugoslavia arrived in the camp. Among Nedic's people, more precisely on January 17th, my father, Dmitry Djura Marjanovic, who was then 18 years old arrived at the camp. He was picked up in Nedic's Serbia as a refugee from Vojvodina, and was expelled from the volunteer village of Kuski Sokolac near Kula, from Hungarian fascists, first to the Jugovico camp near Novi Sad, and then to the cover of Nedic's Serbia, which gave them refuge, and co-operated with the German occupier. They say they haven't heard of the Old Fair, of that camp of casualties. Unfortunately, I grew up with these stories and horrors, and it always shakes me emotionally. The Logoras were bloody beaten to death by guards and by local security who were recruited from the ranks of prisoners. The morning machine was the scariest thing, the countdown for the shooting. Through the "Acceptive Camp Zemun", a new name reads, I said thirty to forty thousand campers, and 11,000 Serbs and Roma were killed. After seven months, on June 27, 1943, my father was transferred, or as he said interned, to forced labor in Germany to camps, three of the following camps: "Danceing", "Bromberg" and "Christian Stat". There he also welcomed the release in 1945. In the "Old Fair" camp, a tragically large number of people were killed – 7,000 Jews, women, children, old people. Serbia was then declared, as I said of Juden Fry cleansed of Jews, a notification in Europe came from the government itself, Milan Nedic. Every few months in the media, bomber headlines full of feelings and shame appear, because buildings that served as hospitals and morgues during the camp are now found in kindergartens, discotheques, restaurants. The proposal for a law on the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre provides for the establishment of the Memorial Centre, as an institution of culture to cultivate memories of victims of a Nazi camp and a concentration camp at the former Belgrade Fair. We should keep memories for the victims of the past and remind ourselves that the suffering must not be repeated. We express great respect for the victims, give the monster to the victims, and as a provision for the future we establish the Old Fair Memorial Center for Jews, Serbs and Roma. So the "Old Fairground" will finally be marked worthy of being a place of evil, suffering, genocide and crime, one crazy ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71557	Thank you, colleague Repac. The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71558	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the Bill on the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre provides for the establishment of the same-named centre with the aim of rearing and remembering victims of the Nazi concentration camp, at the former Belgrade Fair, the Zemun Jewish camp and the Zemun reception camp. The "Old Fair" memorial centre will, above all, allow the history of facts and the existence of camps in the territory of the city of Belgrade, in the Second World War, to fulfil the duty of permanent memory and memory of the victims of genocide, occupation terror and war crimes, a law on the Old Fairt Memorial centre should be passed, which will allow the historic facts about the existence of camps in Belgrade's territory to never be forgotten. The "Old Fair" memorial centre will, among other things, carry out the tasks of collecting, fixing, preserving, exhibiting, maintaining and using professional research and presentation of museum, archive and film documents and objects. Then educational-experienced, scientific-researching, publishing affairs as well as organise a manifestation and actions to cultivate memories of the victims of the Jewish camp Zemun, the Zemun Acceptable Camp, and the Jewish passing camp of Belgrade "Topovske vrata". The "Old Fair" Memorial Centre will carry out reconstruction, adaptation and arrangement of existing authentic objects in the space of the Memorial Centre and eventually build new ones that are responsible for the regular maintenance of non-movable cultural goods in accordance with established measures to protect cultural goods. The establishment of the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre will preserve memories of victims in the past and remind themselves that injuries must not be repeated, and the adoption of laws will ensure the collection of data, processing and provision of such data in a unique manner in one place. The values of Nazism and fascism must never be part of the value of any society and must be fought against every kind of one-sided and hate. We know how much our President Aleksandar Vukic is fighting for peace in our premises, and the better future of Serbia, for the truth about the Serb death in KIM, about the missing Serbs and their families, and we will not stop this struggle, with the struggle for the survival and survival of Serbs in the southern province. We do not forget the crimes and the suffering, and we are fighting for a better future and the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71559	The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71560	Thank you, Chairman. Dear government representatives, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, how happy is a people who do not have this kind of memory and who do not have the kind of history that we are talking about today and what is the subject of today's law? How proud is a people who have never been a vindictee of such events and who have never systematically done such things, and how unfortunate is it when a nation is all these things that we talk about all day and what is the subject of the law through generations, forgotten? Lucky things don't happen to us, we didn't. Somehow, we couldn't even influence it ourselves. Pride that we didn't do it to others, we kind of pushed it out ourselves over time, and we didn't put it in the first place, and unfortunately, we had that forgetter over time, we affirmed it ourselves. So here's to 75 years, for the first time in this way we're discussing this topic, because what else is it, except for forgetfulness, if after so much time we start discussing these topics. No matter how many words we use today in this distinguished House to write down the horrors that the Serbian people and the Jewish, the Roma, have been through in the past century, above all, in World War II, it is hardly possible to describe it. I thought today, but I gave up, because as a man, I don't have the strength to tell the story of Maria Pochuche from Velebit who in a few minutes lost his three children, who were slaughtered and thrown into the Velebit caves. I didn't even have the strength to tell, believe me, the story of Trifka Ehmečić, whose six children ended up in the Golubinka Cave, in Prebilovci near Capljina in western Herzegovina, or to tell the story of twenty two members of the Weiss family who were killed at the Old Fair, the famous Banat family of the Jewish family, but not the strength to tell a personal story that my family survived from those first days of June 1941. This day is somehow a marriage to those children of Maria Pochuche, Branka, Milki, Dušanka, the marriage of the children of Trifko Ehmečić, those six children who were thrown into the Golubinka pit, is also the marriage of 20 members of the Weiss family from Banat, but also of their other children, to all other families who were killed in the HH century, first of all, I am talking about Serbian, Jewish and Roma families. This is not today, Your Honor, the Prime Minister, just one simple congregation day. This is a serious historic moment. I am personally honored, which in this way my colleagues and I are taking part in this historic moment, because this is the first time, in the right way we're talking about these things and for the first time we are finally institutionalizing this story. I say, after 75 years, but it's never too late. I have carefully read the law that is before us today, and it decidently regulates everything that will happen in the establishment of the Memorial Centre, but especially for my eye, I have fallen behind in Annex 3, which says that about 70% of visitors to the Memorial Center will be organised student visits. I think that's what's most important in this bill, because we can build anything if we don't learn and educate some young and new generation, everything will be for nothing. So I think that sometimes the law, because it's the first one, can make changes, but it's the most important part of this legal solution, and it shouldn't be changed. We, as SNS MPs, are certainly looking forward to announcing that it will be built under the agreement of President Aleksandr Vukic and member of the presidency, Milorad Dodik, Memorial Centre in Lower Gradina, and that is another step forward in this direction. All this together says that Serbia's policy has changed seriously and profoundly in this, but also in other areas. Therefore, the Honorable Representative of the Government is assured that we will support the prevention work, i.e. This job of preventing memory, i.e. eliminating oblivion with the hope that we will leave our children and our grandchildren with memories of all the evil of that time but leave memories of all the good and the rise of Serbia of our age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71561	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71562	I thank the chairman. Representatives from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will explain this law today, with a piety to those people who are not alive today, but before I start talking about the law, I will really, please, make a derogation because I can't, without saying, to make... I can't talk about how uncomfortable I am, but I really need to side with all the kids, talk about Sibin Vukadinovic's tweet, that man, the inhuman, that monster, I don't know what to call him, because it's been a lot more to call the children of all of us. Leave the children alone! Namely, the President of the Republic has been called, the point of the way. Come on, what's the president, let's be bots, bastards, toothless, like this and stuff, let's be all right, but don't touch other people's kids anymore, please. Leave your children alone once and for all. What this man said, inhuman, I will never do it again, doesn't allow me culture, doesn't allow me dignity, because this is morbid and scandalous. As far as the law is concerned, it is a great honor for me to talk about it today, about the proposal for a Law on the Memorial Center "The Old Fair". Namely, I had this accident that my grandparents would be in Dahau, like everyone else who is no longer alive, giving them great honor and respect. What I have to say about this law is that I'm proud that one is the only one in Spruce history, back 70 years, 100 years, in fact no one has ever thought to honor the victims. Here, we're talking about this law today, how we're going to build the Old Fair Memorial Center. It will be an institution of culture at a republican level and that is very good. It's that piet for those victims, according to those people who were caused by nothing died in Nazi camps and not just in Nazi camps. Unfortunately, the history of life teacher and if it hadn't been for her, and what we have to say is that we've been caused by nothing, which always leads to defensive wars, killed, lost two and a half million people, in World War I, in World War II, wars of the 1990s, bombings, nothing caused. I'd really like this to stop. This Old Fair Memorial Centre will collect, arrange, store, exhibit, maintain, use professional processing, research and presentation of museum, archival, film documents and objects, then educational-experienced, scientific and research affairs. So, something that is proud of whoever proposed this law, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Alexander Vukic, but also to those of us today who have the honor of talking about this law. Otherwise, this law was created by the Working Group of the Ministry, the Government and everyone who participated, and of course they were interested, above all the Ministry of Education, Information, Culture, Education, Science and Technological Development, but the public opinion could say about this, and everyone said positively about this, absolutely, except that I have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71563	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71564	I thank the chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information, MPs, citizens of Serbia, it is certainly a special honor to speak today about this bill proposal and basic action that also established the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre is a collection, storage, exposure, settlement, maintenance, use, professional processing, presentation of museum, archival and film documents and objects, taking care of their use, for museum, educational and research, scientific and publishing affairs, care and memory of the victims of the "Jewish camp Zemun" and "Acceptive camp Zemun", as well as "Jewish Transition Camp" Belgrade, Topovo Forest. What I would particularly like to point out today is that the representatives of the Union of the Jewish municipalities of Serbia and the National Council of the Roma Minority will also be part of the Governing and Supervisory Committee of this Memorial Centre. Within the Memorial Centre there are also education sectors: the museum's "Jewish camp Zemun" and the "Acceptive camp Zemun" sector. As part of the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre, special internal units are educated to preserve the maintenance of the movable cultural goods of the Memorial Centre, units for international co-operation, educational-examination units, research units, libraries, archives. International co-operation must be managed by the belief that co-operation is based on respect and understanding among peoples and religions is a necessary condition for the peace and progress of humanity with a firm belief that the dignity of every man is unimpeached value. The plan, adopted in accordance with this law, sets out the public interest in expropriating immovableity in order to approve the activities of this Memorial centre and for the purposes and benefits of the Republic of Serbia. Museum exhibits, art and historical works, archives and film buildings, library fund, which preserves and uses the Old Fair Memorial centre are mobile cultural goods regulated by the Cultural Goods Protection Act. Also, financial resources have been provided by this Bill for the work of this institution in 2021, for reconstruction, adaptation and rehabilitation of the Old Fairs Tower, as well as 28,210,000 in 2021, 39,210,000 in 2022, and the same amount for 2023. Of course, like all MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, in voting day we will support this draft law with special satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71565	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71566	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable MPs, there are many reasons why we should pass the law on the Old Fair Memorial, some of which we have already heard, and some of them I will make. Lately, in international relations, there has been a complete revision of history related to the period of World War II and the fight against fascism, the revision of the history of events, victims, merits and so on. The reasons for this can be matured and produced, above all, from the relations of individual countries towards Russia and allies. Serbia must never accept this revisionism of history because only four peoples in World War II have paid a proportionally higher price than Serbs. Only the Russians, Jews, Belarusians and Poles are more deadly than Serbs, no one else. Therefore, even the fact that Serbia has not been invited to mark the 1980s since the start of the Second World War, which was organised in Poland, represents revisionism. It seems incredible, but the organisers wanted to punish Serbia only because Serbia is an ally of Russia. Why is it so known to the creators of international relations at global level. Strange some international relations, isn't it? Even though Serbs have openly shown their anti-fascist orientation not only verbally, not only through philosophical debates, but through fierce opposition from partisan units against fascist occupiers since the start of the conflict with the Nazi army. The fact is that Serbs raised partisan uprisings, not only in Serbia but also in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and so on. There were examples like Operation Halliard when the army in the country in 1944 fiercely opposed the fascist enemy and helped Allied fighters. In all, according to the number of civilians killed, the Serb people may be others if they count proportionally as the population, and only because they were Serbs, they were killed. Because of these historical facts, we do not want to and will never accept the revisionism of history, the change of the past by those who would so severely suffer and tormented Serbian people declare fascist servants and someone who was an aggressor in these areas. And that there are those who want to change history and that the world's worst and reckless statement by the former Croatian president, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, is confirmed by the Croatians in World War II that fought against fascism. At a memorial in Poland, which Serbia has not been invited to. That's embarrassing. Now, that's the revisionism of history in action. That's what we have to stand up to, and we can only face the truth and the facts. For example, unlike NDH, which was a fully voluntary Nazi formation, which welcomed the Germans, Belgrade had a puppet government because the royal government was defeated. However, it is our responsibility as a state that so far we have not memorialized the concentration camp of the Old Fair. There may be a lot of reasons, but there's no excuse, because it's very important that we build a memorial center where we keep memories of all the victims of a Nazi concentration camp named the Jewish camp Zemun. The Old Fair Memorial centre will cultivate memories of all the victims of the Zemun Jewish camp, the Zemun reception camp, as well as the Jewish passing camp of Belgrade, Topovska vasa, and remind that the victims should not be repeated. I sincerely hope that we will pay adequate attention to other Serb deaths in these areas and face even stronger and more determined revisionism of history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71567	Thank you, colleague Djokic. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71568	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the old Latin proverb says - History is a teacher of life. The main question is, have we mastered all the historical facts of life, how much have we learned from our peas so as not to repeat this mistake as humanity in the future? That's where it's important to mark the Old Fair, as a place of death of a large number of victims, finally with dignity. I was pleased to hear that Vucic's statement last August about the completion of the draft law on the Old Fair Memorial complex was given at a meeting with Erfaim Zurof, who was elected to participate as one of the members of the Commission for the President of the International Council, otherwise he is the director of the "Simon Visental" Centre. The city of Belgrade has also, I would like to point out, made a significant contribution to ensure that our fellow citizens who were killed just because other religions were marked and remembered as they deserved. Changes are happening, I would say, only since 2014 when the SNS comes to power in Belgrade and Serbia. It was only then that we began to develop this culture of memory for all the victims of numerous wars and the First World War and the Balkan Wars and the Second World War, the marking of NATO aggression and all other battles, the battlefields on which the Serb animal died, but also the Jewish, Roma and other nations living in these areas. Also, the city of Belgrade has decided to declare on May 10th the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust victims in Belgrade, another step forward when it comes to developing bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and Israel, but also to giving recognition of one true importance to the memory of the Holocaust victims. The proposal for the Law on the Memorial Centre of the Old Fair should establish an institution of culture at a republican level dedicated to the memory culture of victims, historical events that took place in the area of the Old Fair, that is, the Nazi camp, the Zemun Jewish camp and the Zemun reception camp. This is a move, I'd say, to fulfill justice. For more than 70 years we have waited, I am truly pleased and encouraged by this news that today, as MPs, there is this very important law, because in this way we are fulfilling justice for all those families of victims, for all those Serbs, Jews, Roma who have waited more than 70 years for justice to be served. It is ambitious, reading this Bill proposal, I would really say that it is an ambitious centre in the future that will carry out tasks of collecting, collecting, saving, exhibiting, professional processing, research and presentation of museum, archival and film documents and objects, but will also be used in museum educational-experienced, scientific-researching, publishing purposes, as well as numerous manifestations. The aim of the law is to create a change in the direction of fulfilling the duty and lasting memory and mention of the victims of the Holocaust, victims of genocide, occupation terror and war crimes, so as not to forget the historical facts of the existence of a concentration camp located in the very center of our capital, in the very centre of Belgrade. The bill will also affect representatives of victims represented through the Union of Jewish municipalities and the National Council of the Roma National Minority. The adoption of this law, I'd say, is only the first step. There is still a lot of work to be done that includes land expropriation and center design, and then its construction. The good news is, we're not gonna be alone in this business. We had the opportunity to see from the media last year that the American Holocaust Museum offered support to Serbia in February last year for the construction of a memorial complex and then said Deputy Director of this museum, Robert Williams, and praised the Serbian delegation's commitment to the International Alliance for Memory of the Holocaust. Also, in addition to forming a commission that drafted the bill, Belgrade also had a very good co-operation with International Relations Director Jad Vashma in the Holocaust survey and the Old Fair project. It is the co-operation of two institutions, I would say, of great importance, on the historic archives of Belgrade and the Holocaust Museum in Washington. Our historical archive in Belgrade has sent more than 31 copies of documents that are a testimony to the behaviour of Nazis towards Jews in Serbia and Jews in the former Yugoslavia. In this way, Serbia is contributing to the Holocaust's research and preservation of memory of this terrible crime so that it will no longer be repeated in history and in the future. For Serbia and Europe, but also for future and present generations, it is important that we know the truth about suffering. It is important for Serbia and Europe to make the Old Fairment a memorial complex because it is the site of the last Nazi concentration camp in Europe, which has not been marked until today by 2020. I would say that this government has indeed done in the past three years more than it has done in the previous 70 years since this problem exists and that the leadership of the city of Belgrade, but above all, and President Aleksandar Vukic, has made an immeasurable and significant contribution. Dear fellow MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to point out that Serbia is the first country in Europe to adopt the Law on the Return of Victims of the Holocaust, which has no successors, the only country to hang a flag on the presidency building with David's star to mark a very significant anniversary. She's been talking about 75 years since the Holocaust, and that's how she made her contribution. Now I'm going to talk a little bit about historical facts. Historical facts suggest the Old Fairground buildings were not bombed in the devastating Nazi bombing of Belgrade on 6 April 1941. It's a space that was primarily intended for the Belgrade Fair. King Alexander equipped this entire area, and it was supposed to be the modern centre of Belgrade, as the city spreads towards Zemun. Unfortunately, the Nazis gave up building a new camp in the Zasavica area, near Sremska Mitrovica, about 70km from Belgrade and moved into the empty pavilions of the former Belgrade Fair. On October 20th, which means in 1941, the German military administration decided that instead of building a new camp, the Belgrade Fair, its own, was reorganized at that time by an empty pavilion. It was not an ideal place for a concentration camp, given the proximity of the city, but the authorities in the lack of time, however, accepted the idea. The fair is located on the territory under the control of the local command for Zemun, Semlin, and it is accordingly this camp is also called "Judenlager Semlin", the Jewish camp Zemun. The fate of the Jews at the Fair was indeed marked by great sufferings. In the early spring of 1942, the occupation authorities in Belgrade realised that the planned deportation of Jews to the east was out of sight and wanted to find a solution to the Jewish problem as soon as possible. This time, the government in Berlin provided the necessary infrastructure, and in March 1942 a gas truck arrived for the Saurer brand, which was driving two lower SS officers, Gec and Meyer, in Belgrade. For this truck, euphemism was used in Nazi documents – a vehicle for the destruction of lice, and it was actually a death truck. The exhaust was so set up and the ride in this truck lasted 10 to 15 minutes and at the moment of boarding in a Jewish camp, between 80 and 100 people, it was only enough for 10 minutes to go on the road to the Jayans, I would say, a road without going back, a road without life, to a certain death, like this truck was. This type of gas truck was used in the Nazi euthanasia programme back in 1940 when tens of thousands of people with disabilities and mentally ill died. In late 1941 and early 1942, the same vehicle was tested as a method for a final solution to the Jewish issue. The first victims of this truck in Belgrade were staff and patients of two Jewish hospitals in Belgrade. During only two days, on 18 and 19 March 1942, over 800 people, mostly patients, were loaded into a gas truck in groups 80 to 100 and all died of carbon dioxide poisoning on their way through Belgrade to the loss site in Jajinci, a village at the foot of Mount Avala, south of Belgrade. At the arrival of Jayance, seven Serb prisoners were extracting victims from the truck and burying them in mass graves. At first, the camp was designed only for Serbian Jews. Later, however, other political convicts, communists, partisans and Chetniks were sent here. Black history was written here during the occupation, and when about 7,000 Jews and 32,000 Serbs were killed in the so-called "Serbs". the soulless, shot in the Lambs or died of the terrible pains and terrible conditions that reigned in the camp itself. After the war, the fair never managed to turn this space into its original function, probably because of its bloody history. All Yugoslav pavilions have been removed, and here the established institutions are in charge of building New Belgrade, except for the pavilion and the central tower threatened to collapse because they did not fit in with the modern metropolis he wanted Belgrade to be. In 1951, these premises were converted into apartments for socially endangered persons in our capital or handed over to the Association of Fine Arts of Serbia. Only with the arrival of the SNS, the Serbian government, which is proposing this law, has it listed in its reasoning that the legal act should be adopted for the purpose of lasting memory of the victims of the Holocaust, genocide, occupation terror, war crimes. The establishment of a memorial centre will allow not to forget these historical facts that I spoke of, about the existence of a camp in Belgrade's territory, where in World War II there was a Nazi concentration camp that took more than 7,000 Jews to death, more than 32,000 Serbs and Roma, but also other peoples and peoples. The conclusion is made itself, as I started my present exhibition, history is a teacher of life and perhaps the most terrible thing that the Belgraders did not know enough about the victims at the Old Fair, as well as about historical facts, what really happened during World War II in the very centre of Belgrade. The Old Fair camp existed from December 8, 1941 to July 1944, with its purpose changing over time. From December 8th 1941 to May 10, 1942, he was a Jewish camp called Zemun or "Judemlager Semlin" aimed at destroying the remaining Jewish population in occupied Serbia. Since 2 May 1942, the Zemun reception camp has started to operate until July 1944 and has been a transit camp for prisoners of the people's liberation movement, partisans and Serbs from occupied areas, Croatia and other opponents of totalitarian regimes in these areas. He served as a reception camp and was tasked with moving prisoners to work camps in Germany, Norway and other parts of occupied Europe. It is our duty to mark the sites. It is our duty to mark all the places of suffering and to give them credit in an adequate manner. It is our civilizational value and obligation to make paths and maps of suffering and that those strategies are indeed marked in the collective memory or memory of our people, as well as to be part of the educational programs of our students, because without it I think we will fall on the future history exam. Somehow these 70 years, I'd say, we've failed, and we've lacked the right memory of the evil that was committed in these places, and with a clear message that this evil never repeats itself. In my presentation today, I was really handling the data of Professor Miljan Koljanin, who found that 40,000 people had passed through the Old Fairground camp. In the first part, it was a Jewish camp and there were 7,000 people, of which 6,400 women, children and old ones from the rest of the Jewish community in that period and about 600 members of the Roma community, with 6,400 Jewish families, children, old and women being killed or killed in poor conditions in the camp. The Roma, the vast majority of them, managed to get away with it. The Germans arrested members of the Roma community for not having a permanent residence. In various ways in Belgrade, the Roma were able to get their relatives and friends to report for permanent residence. In the second part of the reception camp, just over 30,000 people passed, most of which were Serbs from the NDH area and occupied Serbia, then members of the Partizan movement and some members of the Chetnik movement. As the war went on, there were more Jews, Roma, Croats. When Italy signed the capitulation in 1943, the camp was inhabited by representatives of Italians and Albanians. At the very end, the last sentence, by establishing a memorial complex, we're going to put an accent on historical facts, but also on one fundamental fact that the revision of history is not possible. Given the principle that, as far as we know, it is important for us to open up this memorial centre in the very centre of Belgrade, which will preserve memories of all the victims who have been killed in this camp or have been displaced, or have been choked on their last trip in the truck to the Lambs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71569	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71570	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, the proposal that lies ahead today will enable us to form an institution of culture that will be dedicated to the memory of victims in historical events at the site of today's "Old Fair", or former camp in Zemun. It is important that we send a message that the suffering must not be repeated and that we keep a memory of those who were victims simply because they are other religions. So on May 10th 1942, Nazi occupiers declared Belgrade a Jewish-free city, as all Jewish campers were killed. That is why the Belgrade City Assembly decided on 10 May to declare itself on the Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims in Belgrade. In 2019, the Working Group was formed with the Government, which developed the Bill on the Memorial Centre "Old Fair". The Republic budget will allocate funds for the adaptation of the central tower and for further work of the centre in 2021, 2022 and 2023. Therefore, funds will be allocated for the reconstruction and adaptation of objects, but also for measures to protect that cultural good. The memorial centre will also perform the tasks of collecting and presenting museum and archive documents and organise manifestations in memory of the victims. I call on my colleagues to support this proposal in the voting day. In short, I want to look back at the terrible things that Alexander Vukic's daughters are up to, and I really expect that certain sectors in the police and the prosecution, the high-tech crime sectors will react and that we finally know that at least children are protected from this kind of abomination. Out of courtesy, I would like to quote this status on social networks, but I would like to say that it was a close associate of Bosko Obradovic, who had the opportunity to hold a press conference with Bosko Obradovic at the National Assembly Hall. Unfortunately, it is not the first time that MPs react to the monstrosity and vulgarity that is directed to the children of Aleksandr Vukic and those who are not allowed to go to elections, who will not go to elections because they do not have the support of citizens, those who cannot stand in line with Alexander Vukic, nor the SNS, because they do not have a program, or their programme is violence, insult and nothing is sacred to them, it is not even that children are drawn into politics and abused in the ugliest way. They are nothing but cowards, the most common cowards and Bosko Obradovic and his associates and all those who thus refer to children and there is another difference. The Serbian Progressive Party will go to the polls with Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. We are fighting for their better future in Serbia and we will protect them until the end. Thank you. (Alexander Seselj: Is this just for your children? )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71571	Comrade Seselj, a little quieter, you will have the opportunity to speak. Thank you, colleagues. The word has the People's MP Studenka Stojanovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71572	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates, today's bill opens a very important topic aimed at keeping them from forgetting the deaths of the entire peoples. There are fewer people who have survived the Holocaust who can testify to the horrors they have experienced and it is important that their stories as direct witnesses be told and recorded to detail. Also, there are people, or families, who sheltered the exiles, and thus risked their own lives, so that they too should be honored. The persecution of any nation in any form should have remained in the past and it should only be spoken of as a horror that must never be repeated again. Unfortunately, we Serbs suffer various kinds of persecution even to this day. We are also witnessing this latest event in Montenegro and everything that is happening to the Serbian Orthodox Church. The spread of the Holocaust lesson should be the concern of the whole world. It's a global theme, a global thing, and it has to be sent a clear message. The Old Fairst Memorial centre in Belgrade is an important step in preserving memories of victims of a Nazi concentration camp, a Jewish camp and a reception camp. This memorial centre will cover the area on the left bank of Sava, including the cultural well-being "Old Fair" and its surroundings, as well as the corresponding space of the Jewish passing camp "Topovska vasa". At that center, people will be able to learn what the Holocaust was, to prevent the revision of history or to prevent the denial of the Holocaust. In addition to the educational role, this Memorial centre will also play a role in preserving the appearance of the very space in Belgrade. Such a memory has a very important purpose, and that is that all future generations remember that never and no more such horrors really must be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71573	Thank you, colleague Stojanović. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71574	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, although in the 1960s last century, the war fate of the Fair has become the subject of an official and institutionalised, although not always mass or too public, a reminder in the Socialist Yugoslavia or later. The competent institutions have not adequately preserved the memory of the victims of this camp. That the "Simište" represents a place of memory today is referred to only two partially damaged monuments. Several remaining camp buildings have been failing for decades, and the entire complex of "Old Fairs" remains as an abandoned and impoverished settlement today. On December 8th 2021, it will be equal to 80 years since the death of the first victims of the Fair, all those taken to the cold pavilions of the Belgrade Fair, in the building of the largest camp in occupied Serbia. There were about 30,000 victims of this camp, mostly Serbs, Jews, Roma, and 10,000 of them ended their lives there. The “Simište” camp has never been adequately marked, and this is an opportunity to draw attention once again to the fact that despite the importance that had to come to him as a place of unremembered suffering and suffering. The Serbian Progressive Party leads the policy of the future, but also respects its ancestors. What the predecessors of the previous 80 years have not done, we will do, as we have launched for so many years after the bombing in 1999, to record and determine the damage caused by radiation to the health of the population. That didn't occur to our political predecessors. The essence of the postwar fate of the "Old Fairground" should also be sought in the next crossing of two points of view – to this day 1945 is the result of a constant dispute, but also an effort to find a compromise solution between those who have advocated that the "Simum" become a memorial place and others that have predicted this space to be a different, above all, practical purpose. It is about 20 hectares of land on the left bank of Sava, before the war as well as at the time of the Belgrade Fair camp was on the edge of the capital, bordered on one side by the river, with another swamp that separated Belgrade and Zemun. After the war, the construction of the New Belgrade "Old Fair" was located in the heart of the city in the part of the Sava coast, which connects its old and new parts. The "Simishte" was a symbol of the revolutionary history of Belgrade, the resistance to fascism and the loss of the Yugoslav people, for the second place in the Holocaust, and the third in the Fair saw an ideal location to mark the deaths of Serbs, Jews and Roma in Ustasha NDH. The "Simist" suffering in a dramatic way illustrates the extent to which in Serbia during the entire post-war period there was no awareness of the Holocaust as a special historical event and a unique case of human suffering that was in itself worth the attention and respect. The Serbian Progressive Party leads a policy of the future and respect of its ancestors. I am proud that now that I am a National MP, I can vote for the establishment of a republican institution and reconstruction of the Old Fair Memorial Centre, that our ancestors can finally find their peace. The memorial centre will collect, process, explore and present data for the purposes of museum, educational and experimental, scientific and research affairs and actions to cultivate memory of victims. To never forget and to tell young generations what we've been through in history. We are a small but brave people who have never been conquerive, but have always defended their house and their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71575	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71576	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, Belgrade remembers and respects all victims of World War II. It's important that we cultivate a memory culture so that events from the past don't repeat themselves. Serbia has, unfortunately, been well aware of all the horrors of a war in which Serbs were also exposed to genocide and almost on the verge of biological survival. Serbs are a perilous people who alone were struck by dark ideologies, a people who are proud of their resistance and the fight against all the forces of evil and who remember with piety all their victims and their own and others. For the past seven decades, various authorities have shown negligence toward this area on the Sava coast. His preservation and the question of his defamation is showing concern for the history and victims of the Stari Simište camp. The fairground was a camp where, systematically, from May 1941 to March 1942, Jews were brought in and drove from there in their souls to the Lambs. The old Simishte has two stages, in the first camp of death for Jews, in the second, concentration camp for all who were opponents who served as slave labor. There were people who were citizens of Serbia, people who prayed to different gods, but they all bound them to be citizens of Serbia and deserve a decent monument. Each victim is the greatest, but the Holocaust is a unique phenomenon in human history. The proposal for a law on the Old Simiste Memorial Centre in Belgrade envisions the establishment of a cultural institution dedicated to the memory culture of victims and historic events that took place in the former Nazi camp, with the aim of preserving the memory of 11,000 Serbs and 7,000 Jewish and Roma women, children and old and other victims in the former camp. It is about fulfilling the duty and lasting memory and mention of victims of holocausts, genocide, terror and war crimes. The law will allow the historic facts about the existence of camps in Belgrade's territory not to be forgotten. The task of this facility will be to collect, arrange, store, exhibit, professionally process, present museum archives and film documents, to organise manifestations of care and memory of victims and care about using the building for educational and experimental and scientific research purposes. The Serbian-Jewish friendship lasts for decades. Serbia respects the Jewish community and respects their rights. Through history, Serbs and Jews shared a tragic fate, especially during World War II. Serbia is the first country in the region and beyond, which passed a special law on the return of victims of the Holocaust. It shows responsibility, respect, and the way we treat civilization values. The Old Fair should be a memorial complex that will remind future generations of the horrors that occurred in this place. It is necessary for new generations to learn about all the horrors of Nazism during the occupation. It's important that we hear the memory, it's important that we hear the truth of the Holocaust, and that we resist the attempts to review history. Serbia has also remained a free country in which every citizen is respected and respected as a man, as a person, regardless of his national or religious background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71577	I thank my colleague Ljubic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71578	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, never to be repeated, is exactly a sentence we haven't repeated since 1945 until today. It seems to me that our predecessors earlier built this memorial complex, perhaps those people who have studied here since 1945, who have been welcome in Serbia, who are now not living in this country, would understand exactly what has been done and how many injustices have been done to Serbs, Serbian people, Jews, Roma and all other peoples living in the territory of the Serbian state. To never repeat itself, there has to be something that this memorial complex will guarantee as much as one institution of culture can guarantee, an institution of culture that will be directed into us who live, who will live in the future, just develop a sense of responsibility, but responsibility for what we inherited, according to what our ancestors lived and what people will live after us. Is it possible that it took 75 years for someone to remember to pass the law to one such place, which is a place with a special pie, I'm talking about this place, given that I'm the grandson of Birmancevic Novak, who, since 1941, spent until the end of the war in German camps, and I'm really proud to vote for this law. This memorial complex is not a complex dedicated to a team of 20,000 victims, if at all it's an exact figure or how much it is, this is a memorial complex that will be dedicated to all victims no matter where they came from in the period and World War II, but unfortunately also after World War II. The conditions are created to show through the memory center and show into which extreme the human mind can go and what people are willing to do when they lose touch with reality and reality. That someone makes trucks of death, that someone kills people just because they're Jews, Serbs or Roma, that's something they have to warn and something that has to be a message to everyone. Not only in Serbia, but in the Balkans and across Europe. After 75 years, conditions have arisen, i.e. I expect all those who think well of this Serbia, who think well of their children, to right now vote in favour of this law. Here's a chance, I invite those who go around the congregation as the devil around the cross to come in and at least vote for this bill, because this is the law that guarantees our future. As we treat our victims, our ancestors, so will the future treat us and our generations. It's not fair and it's really not fair to talk about this after 75 years, but thank the government for this proposal and for Alexander Vukic, which he just gave the idea and made the decision, if we're going to say it honestly, because since 1945, some of them haven't wanted to, some of them didn't even care if this place was going to be a memorial complex or if the cafes were open. I have a feeling that the team now trying to boycott, which at this point is boycotting the Assembly, or boycotting its people, that team if it were left, would probably already be cafes there, but that's their problem. I call on everyone to take advantage of the opportunity to come through this law to support something that makes sense, something that should have been passed back in 1946. Thank you all, and I expect full support from this law. Thank you again for the proposal, and our ancestors will rest more peacefully after this law. I expect this law to create conditions for us to repay ourselves in some other parts of Serbia to our ancestors. They deserve it. For last, never to happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71579	Thank you, colleague Birmanchevic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Comrade Orlic's remaining time for the 9-minute and 38-second MPs' group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71580	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join today's invitations to jointly support the bill on the establishment of an appropriate memorial centre, which will show the necessary respect for all our victims who have been killed in the Old Fairground area, that is, in events that we associate with that space. When we tell all our victims right, everyone who said today, everyone who died there, is ours. Of course, when it comes to our countrymen, but also when it's not. It is about those who were then our neighbours, who were then our friends, who in every sense shared the fate of the majority Serb people. As you can see, they shared it in that segment that is in today's day, for us as we speak, most importantly, in suffering. It is one side of the truth that we are obliged to speak and to remember. The second is, of course, that we and as far as we are concerned and that we must be concerned about everything that is related to the Serbian people and when he did not live in the territory of today's Serbia, whether or not to the state of that time, but that our people are absolutely seas concerned. Everyone who has said today has told many that as much respect as we show for ourselves and our victims, we can expect so much respect from others tomorrow. Anyone who noticed that was absolutely right. Today we are reminded again of the fact, the unequivocal defeat, that this respect for us was missing. That's why it's important to say that today is different, which is why it's important to order that all the people in this country and all our countrymen everywhere they hear and understand, that it's important, that it's good that today is different. This kind of self - respect today is being established as our clear obligation. That is the result, one of the results of the policy conducted in this country by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. The most important thing of all is that we are not ashamed today, that we are proud to talk about being on the side of justice, that we were on the side of the truth and in 1999 and that we are talking and that we remind each year of our victims from that period, and you know only a few years ago that was unimaginable. The most important thing is that it changed. But it's not a problem and it should be said and it should be known, it changed in Serbia when Alexander Vukic and SNS started running it. So let's keep it on record. The most important thing is to change the attitude towards the victims in the 1995 Crime Action Storm, to the greatest crime that remembers the European continent after World War II, and to this day and how it is respected, and to attach that importance to that event, the uncontested name of the word about the unremembered tragedy of our people. But to say, just a few years ago, it was unimaginable that this kind of memory existed. And that was changed by Alexander Wolf and SNS. Make it the most important that it's changed, but let it be known when it is. When we talk about this bill, it will remain recorded when this was discussed, when it was decided, in the end, who was involved in making this decision. Why it is important to remember this self-respect, why it is important to always say that we are obliged to take care of the truth about us, our country and our people. It's just that we wouldn't be missing tomorrow's understanding, that we lack respect by others, just so we don't overcome dangerous intentions to make other people's truths dominant. Some others are unfair to our people, they don't give in to our sacrifices, they want to cancel out our contributions to everything that was good, but it's common importance. They even want to give us the blame where she's gone. It's our duty to fight it as best we can. That's why I'm going to look back on another topic that we've all touched together today, and it's about that propaganda movie, which was broadcast last night, about the first part, as I understand it, a multi-hour march of unpatched hatred. So, one condensed hatred, pure hatred directed against Alexander Vukic. It's a film they called "The Ruler". What does this subject have to do with anything? I'll explain it in a few short sentences right away. One of the main messages of all these people who have gathered there to literally compete who will be more horrifying to say the burden of Alexander Vukic. Not to sin my soul, perhaps with the exception of one man who tried to be polite and correct in what he was saying and when he said some things that he was doing, I absolutely disagree politically, he did it in such a way, correctly. Everyone else literally raced with each other who would come up with something more nasty to say about Alexander Wolfich. One of their most important messages, you know what it's like, listen to this – Alexander Vukic was primarily involved in rapping Serbs outside Serbia into war with other peoples. In addition to that hatred that was personally addressed against this man, what do these messages tell you? These people are trying all the time to force a narrative that in the 1990s the Serbs, because they must have been persuaded, caused by the war, that the Serbs were guilty of war, that the Serbs were attacking someone else, and that's why everything that happened in the 1990s happened. So when we say that we are obliged to defend the truth about our people, to oppose the lies that they want to cast us against the justice of God, with such lies we should always deal with. So this is a common slander, and this is the slander of our people. Says the author of this film, Slavisa Lekic, that film of theirs is, now I'm going to tell you how he describes it, just a documented and reasoned narrative. Just a documented and reasoned narration, so you can hear how it's just documented and reasoned. What I'm about to read to you now, this is not what none of the participants have said, but this is what the narrator said in the film, as the common position of those who made this film, it's propaganda... Yeah, you're right about what you say, but I'm not gonna say it, so those who signed it. They say in one place -- Serb forces have kept the Sarajevo Grbavica settlement under occupation for four years. The Serbs were held under the occupation of the coat of arms. Who asked today, and they asked, "What shall we do with the fate of 150 thousand Serbs from Sarajevo?" They're right to ask. Here, to see how they match and what they try to plant those who obviously don't hide that they're capable of the most disgusting things to lie about the burden of their own people. They declare the Serbian people an occupation of Sarajevo, the settlements of Grbavica, and other settlements come. What does Lekic's documented and reasoned narrator say elsewhere? He says – Alexander Vukic did something for ten days, these are their words, before the genocide in Srebrenica will happen. So they're telling us -- there's been genocide in Srebrenica, and they're telling us through the mouth of the narrators as a done deal, as a fact state, as something that's been determined, and you all know what this means. This means they're accusing the Serbs of committing genocide. Everybody knows that. What do they say in third place? The same you through the mouth of Lekic's reasoned and documented narrator, they say – Aleksandar Vukic gave a speech in the then occupied Croatian town of Glin. You see, they're telling us that Serbs were also occupyers in Glina, not only occupied by the Serbs in which they lived, so probably since the city was formed as a settlement of that importance, but also in the Glina where they were present in the early 1990s with some 66.67%. They probably occupied their own hearths, occupied their own courtyards, the place where their grandfathers were buried also occupied by Serbs. Why? Because as they explained earlier, Serbs blamed everything and caused all wars. So these are relationships to the people, according to history, according to the facts that we have to fight if we want to show that the truth is only one, and that truth says that Serbs have defended themselves in the 1990s, because they didn't want to be hit by genocides that we're talking about today when we remember the horrors of World War II and they didn't attack anyone, at least occupied. But those people who in their propaganda film last night told all of Serbia as some kind of called facts have shown that hate can really cross all borders, and even those limits of common sense and elemental interest of something that should be of common importance. One of the charges that they have made on the burden of Alexander Vukic is that he is reportedly equating forcefully, to himself, is equating with Serbia. Oh, well, that's exactly what they did. They have shown that besides having unlimited hatred for Alexander Vukic, they also have boundless hatred for their own people. So in this sense, the people of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia have fully leveled. We'll deal with it politically and how we can handle it. Because there's no happiness from hate. And everyone who knows that, you are serious and responsible people and will make sure that Serbia never becomes a country where hate has won. Because there is no difference between this hatred for your people, between the willingness to cast the worst possible mark on your people and those hatreds concerning the most possible abominations you are willing to say, like those of Obradović's Ljatics, on the burden of Alexander Vukic's daughter. It's all hate and it's all to a decent man absolutely foreign. In this country it must conquer love for the country, love for the people, a desire for development, a desire to build a better, more successful society. So, societies that want to win, and to be able to do that, societies that are able to respect themselves. We provide self-respect by remembering, among other things, all those who have suffered for this society to survive, all those who have suffered for this society to survive, all those who have been willing to work and who have nothing to do, because we have fought for what is most important, and that is that future, and these are our children to whom this future belongs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71581	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group Aleksandar Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71582	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly the issue discussed today in the National Assembly is not a political issue to which different political views should be presented, but rather a matter of a general consensus. We all know and know the history of both Serbia and Yugoslavia, and we know how many people in Serbia suffered during the occupation and on many occasions, and besides the Jewish people, the Russian people, I can say that Serbs are one of the most injured people in the 20th century. It is certainly a matter that should be supported, but also a good opportunity to remind ourselves of the practices so far and some certain anomalies that concern our cultural policy, as well as conditions, pressures that come from so-called. international communities, which would mean the most powerful Western countries towards Serbia in the last 25 years. What is noticeable is that although the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to explain on all sides that the new government is no longer so new, but since 2012, it has made some sort of a deviation from the Democratic Party's authority, we see the absence of a cultural strategy, i.e. The country's cultural strategy, here's eight years. If there were any shifts, there is. But there's still no serious difference. I'm going to remind you, for 25 years, maybe longer, in Serbia, they've been acting so-called. NGOs that promote some general places of human civilization such as human rights, rule of law. The fact is, all the civilized nations have long adopted it. But it is only one cover behind which the influence on Serbia's policy is hidden, the impact on decisions made very fundamentally, in the long run and somehow goes all without any reaction and without any response to all this. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia, with budget funds, finances the work of NGOs, which is a paradox in itself. But, of course, in those somewhere more than 10 billion dinars that separate each year for NGOs, don't go all the way to the so-called. Human-rights, there is also the financing of the SPC and the Olympic Committee and the Red Cross and the Mother Serbian, but to an insufficient extent, compared with the funds provided by NGOs, such as the Open Society Fund, such as the Jucom, such as the Helsinki Committee, such as civil initiatives, such as the House of Human Rights, such as the Youth Initiative for Human Rights or others. For 20 years now, quite certainly, and before, these organisations are primarily getting large amounts of money from abroad. And why do they do that? They recognized in Serbia that every party that comes to power does not see a cultural resort as some resort with some great powers, in which there is some political power and is approximately not desirable for any party in power and is not primarily to take the resort and to commit itself more seriously to it. That's the situation. Practice has shown us that. In this they saw empty space and very fundamentally, with the strategy, began to affect Serbia's cultural policy in all aspects, from the issue of literature, we now had the opportunity to see about the case of the NIN award, the issues of education, in a broader sense of culture. So we have seen the situation in Serbia at the moment. She's focused on a change of mind. What does that mean? This means that the Serbian people, as one of the most perilous people in the 20th century, should be blamed for everything, because in themselves Serbs are executioners, criminals, it's in their blood, that's all they think about, that's all they do, and their eternal goals are the extermination of all those who differ from Serbs. So they also produced various events, such as that event in Račka, such as Srebrenica, like Markal and others, in order to prove in fact that for the Serbian army in this context killing innocent civilians or war crimes or extermination, as it is essential for the Serbian military, that it is normal for them and that it is already enough for the Serb nation to be accused, that someone blames himself and that, before he does anything, he has already committed a crime by the very fact that he belongs to the Serbian nation. So their basic topics in Serbia that they are dealing with are the affirmation of the so-called ". genocide in Srebrenica, promotion of independent Kosovo, promotion and affirmation of the so-called Greater Serbian aggression on Croatia and that in fact Serbs entered the civil war in the former Yugoslavia exclusively to commit crimes. We can see that on multiple occasions over the past 20 years. I will remind you -- one of those people who has become one of the main moral authorities in Serbia, and otherwise for every citizen of Serbia, it is a synonym for the worst that exists in our people, Natasa Kandic, on one occasion, during a gathering in the Republic Square, where the members, i.e. families from Kosovo and Metohija who have members of their families who are still missing, who are losing track after 1998 or 1999, who have tragically lost their brothers, sisters, parents, children during a terrorist rebellion in Kosovo and Metohija, she is one of those people, a man who sought the truth about his son, brutally slapped and went unpunished. It is a person who should appear in the Serbian public and assess whether this is good, whether this is bad, what happened here, etc. Of course everyone has the right to say whatever they want, but the question is, how much of it has the support of the state. We talked here, in this conference, and about the Commission for Research after NATO bombing, in terms of cancer caused by the bombing of the poor uranium. Well, all the parties, the parties, of course, who were interested, gave representatives to the Commission. We have not yet seen the Commission's conclusions, but we have on this side NGOs already denying the number of deaths in this NATO bombing, where more than 2,500 people have already been found dead, from small children to soldiers in uniforms, where they promote it as a number smaller than 700. That's true. They also perform in this way, as if Serbia allowed, i.e. as if Serbia were to blame for being bombed by a foreign aggressor force for 78 days. Of course, anyone can say whatever they want, but the thing is that the state of Serbia cannot directly or indirectly finance such a thing. In this regard, no one is involved, nor is he following, nor is he following where the money of the Republic of Serbia ends from the budget for NGOs. I'll remind you, the Office of Human and Minority Rights is calling for competitions for various projects. The right to apply for funds, budget funds have organisations dealing with protecting or promoting human rights, we already know what they are, more than 300 million dinars last year. Then we have a situation that some coalitions of these NGOs in Belgrade are organising a festival called Mirdita, which should promote so-called "Mirdita". Kosovo culture in downtown Belgrade. The very confirmation that such a thing is being paid from the government of Serbia's budget is that former Culture Minister Mr. Tasovac, and the current SNS city councilman and another city councilor, nakarada, attended the opening ceremony of the Mirdita festival in Belgrade. What is it, if it's not open support? It is funded by those who go through Belgrade with transparency that genocide took place in Srebrenica, which calls for the genocide to be recognised as soon as possible, which recently went public with the "appella 88" that should affect the government of the Republic of Serbia to stay out of Montenegro's internal affairs and to do nothing to destabilise Montenegro and Montenegro's society, in terms of supporting the SPC in Montenegro, which today is most threatened after World War II. Now, these are the people who come in a magical way to budget funds. On the issue of education – do you think, if we care about protecting our identity, if we are committed to things like this Memorial center at the Old Fair, to preserving the memory of all of it, can then in one such state be in the school system and in the primary and secondary school, the most popular textbook from history, the one who denies Serbian suffering, the one who serves historical counterfeits, and the one who offends our history and suffering in a brutal way, as it was with the case of "Danka in Blood", which was presented as something that was positive for all these enslaved peoples under the Turkish Empire. Because it opened up the abductions from families and taking them to Istanbul and was something positive that gave every kidnapped and kidnapped boy an opportunity to advance in the Turkish Empire hierarchy. So that's the reality in Serbia. It seems that things in culture are done ad hoc, without strategy and by some estimates if that's good, as far as public opinion is concerned. It's an impression that anyone who looks at it can gain. I'll remind you of one more thing. So, those who wash out our awareness, which is the main moral authority on culture in Serbia, are often also the main talkers of the EU representatives to whom we are devoted and EU membership when various issues are on the agenda, so they consult, so they are national conventions, so their opinion is important, so they appear on TV, so they appear as experts on legal issues and human rights and they have introduced a term called transition justice. This was accepted by the EU and asked for the Republic of Serbia to reach a certain level of promotion and affirmation of the term in Serbia. This would mean an absolute condemnation of all war crimes committed by Serbs, as the UN tribunal ruled, with the highest acceptance of genocide in Srebrenica. It's transitional justice and that's what their mission is. How, then, it is not in conflict with our path to the EU if we are truly committed to preserving our not only territorial integrity and sovereignty but also identity. It's collapsing. As you know, that one country would become a member of the EU, when it opens and closes all chapters, in the case of Serbia Chapter 35, if by some miracle it had reached a legally binding agreement with so-called. With Kosovo, even if that is possible without Serbian damage, every country must, on a bilateral basis, resolve all open issues with all member states in order to join it, as each member has the right to veto. Therefore, a general consensus is needed for EU accession. We have already had serious announcements from Croatia that what is interested in Croatians is primarily the status of a mandatory quota of Croatian MPs in the Serbian Parliament, the Croatian language as an official language in the Republic of Serbia, not only in those places where the Croatian national minority is alive but in all of Serbia. More than ten thousand hectares of land in Apatin and what is the worst of all accepting the official truth of the Homeland War is about the huge sprawl aggression that was in Croatia. And those 250 thousand people who were expelled in the storm action alone are collateral damage or the necessary consequence of our aggression and our crime. Is that how we can negotiate these topics? Are those open questions for the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The Netherlands, as one of the more powerful EU countries, will ask Serbia to accept and condemn the so-called Srebrenica genocide, which would be a historic disgrace to the Serbian people, above all because it is something that is not true. Genocide is not the fault of individuals, as it wants to introduce itself, nor any individual group, genocide is such a kind of criminal act that it can only be carried out by the state and planfully with the strategy. Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia ready to negotiate that in the first place? Also, if genocide becomes official truth, genocide in Srebrenica, it opens the door, not for better relations with Republika Srpska, for the construction of the Donja Gradina centre and the rest, but for the liquidation of Republika Srpska and full integration of Banja Luka into unitary BiH. These are issues related to Serbia's EU membership. Turning your head off of these problems, as if this will be discussed when it comes to order, will not improve our position, but can only extend the list of those requirements that are coming to Serbia. And we can see that no one's into it. So, things need to be planned on a long-term basis, not from today to tomorrow, regardless of who's going to be the minister, so that every minister comes with his plans. Each serious country has a cultural strategy and not only thinks during one term but over a long period. That doesn't exist in Serbia for now. It's necessary to change as soon as possible. Of course, once again, by reputation of the US and the Russian Federation, we present representatives of NGOs as they are, and these are agents of foreign influence in Serbia, who are paid to give such an opinion and in line with their creation of Serbia's policy. There are similar laws in both the United States and the Russian Federation. Why don't we adopt this civilizational step made by the Americans and the Russians and also do it in Serbia, without false moralists, without false experts, to resolve cultures and issues in culture in the Serbian public, to start, to start dealing with people who think well of our people, and not those who are paid for their actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71583	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has a representative of the promoter, Vladan Vukosavljevic, minister of culture and information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71584	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Seselj, I listened very carefully to what you said. It's just, like last time, it's purely for the accuracy of some, and because of the viewers that are watching, I wouldn't be getting into judgments on whether it's in principle good or not to fund NGOs, but what's true is that the Ministry of Culture doesn't do it. So I thought at one point you'd prefer the Ministry of Culture and Information, but the Ministry of Culture was also mentioned, so maybe I was wrong, and in that case I apologize, but anyway, this is true. As for the other thing, when it comes to the culture strategy, here's the good news. At a session last week, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a proposal for a cultural development strategy in Serbia 2020-2029, and the proposal for a cultural development strategy will be in front of MPs in this Assembly, I would say, soon. If this Assembly and the MPs adopt such a proposal for a strategy, it will be the first time, it seems to me, in history, that Serbia has won the Cultural Development Strategy for a period of 10 years. In that strategy, whose necessity I agree with you, just maybe you didn't have this information, there will be basic provisions that every strategy should have. Some of them have defined what Serbian culture is, that is, its internal dimensions, which consists of, what it means, what it all consists of. It's in the opening part. Further content sets out basic strategic principles in the most important areas of culture in a very detailed and comprehensive way. Let us leave an analysis of this strategy, the MPs will be able to study it closely, and I hope that we will see the team again soon, for this important reason or event, and with that in connection with this, I only inform that the Cultural Development Strategy is ready for debate in the National Assembly and for eventual adoption, if that is the mood of the MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71585	I thank you, Minister Vukosavljevic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71586	Thank you. First of all, you, Mr. Minister, are still a representative of the government, and the government is not a set of individuals, so that they have no ties with each other, but should and I guess it should act as a collective. So, the fact is that it's funded. I didn't say it was paid by the Ministry of Culture, I said it was paid by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, every shift is welcomed and there is a change compared to the previous period and it is positive that it is marked and the crime of the storm, and the crime of NATO aggression and so on, but we think it is not all enough and we think it is not normal that any NGO in Serbia is right and that it is not directed against Serbia, that it is not against the Serbian people, that it is not the ultimate goal and motive of one of these or independent Kosovo or genocide in Srebrenica and so on, all of which is the most humane character of this NGO, in our opinion it should not have more money from the budget of the Republic of Serbia than the Mother of Serbia, we think it is not normal. At present, such a situation is that the Matica is about to receive about fifty million dinars, and only through the Office of Human and Minority Rights gives more than 300 million dinars to various Mirditas and women in black and other nonsense. So that's the point. This should change first, and then it will be much easier to establish continuity when there are no false moralists and when they are not paid very largely from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-18-0.u71587	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Given that there are no more registered presidents, i.e. authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I am concluding a principled search on the proposal for a Law on the Memorial Centre of the Old Fair. I thank the minister and his associates for their participation in the debate. We continue work tomorrow, so on Wednesday, February 19th, 2020, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. [[Session interrupted at 1840 hours]]
