ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National Parliament of Stefan Miladanovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for a session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the Government's request, you have been given a request for an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. The session of the 19th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session was set out by the following Dn e d: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Framework of Qualifications of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on Marks; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Educational System of Education and Education; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Law on Dual Education; Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the Status of the French School in Belgrade; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Marrake Treaty on Access to Published Acts by Persons in the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Slovenia. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform examination of the draft laws from 1 to 8 and a common principle and uniform search be carried out on: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, the Proposal for a Law on Archival Construction and Archival Action and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the handover of the Petersburg Journal of the Republic of Serbia and pictures of Nikola Konstantinovich Rerich to the Russian Federation. Do you want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted four MPs for – 134, against. I find that we have accepted this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that today they are invited to attend: Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarčević, Prof. Dr. Gabriela Grujic Garić, Dr. Saša Stojanović and Prof. Dr. Viktor Nedović, Vladimir Marić, Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property, Branka Totic, Assistant Director, Tatjana Đurđević Stepanić, Head of the Department of Education, Science and Technological Development and Dr. Aleksandar Pajic, Special Advisor at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of the MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search of the agenda of points 1 to 8. Does the prime minister's representative want a word? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68533	Dear Members of the People, the Honored Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honored Vice President, the main reason for our ministry's entry into this House is to amend and supplement the Law on Education and Educational System. As you know, we passed this law in 2017 and we have already made changes and additions that were related to the security of information when it comes to students and students. As there was a change in the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, it was not possible to regulate this matter by sublaw. As the Protector himself said, despite three months of persistent work and reconciliation, it had to be approached by legal solutions that are very important for the introduction of a single information system in education. I'm deliberately starting from the middle because this law is fundamental and because it runs further through the entire procedure of this set of amendments and additions. So the unique information system is something that leads to one register, leads to simplification of procedures, and it's already a very large machine that works on that system in education, where we're going to have a lot of savings, where we're going to have a lot more accurate information. Each candidate gets a unique educational number by enrolment in kindergarten, which follows him throughout schooling. There, more added protection measures had to be done, and hence, this law was the reason today for the amendment of the second law to bring us into line on that basis. A number of even smaller members who have been able to repair, repair, are clear on the agenda today, but the most important thing is what I was talking about. When it comes to the system law on the framework of qualifications, in this house we adopted the law, in the meantime we established the agency, the agency accepted employees from the Ministry, from its centres, the Centre for the Recognition of International diplomas, and it created a sectoral council. In the meantime, things were happening in a positive direction, and the agency has come to life with full capacity. So, the sectoral council, public education organizers are formed, because, as is known, the Law on NOK sets out models of informal and formal visions of education and the acquisition of certificates implies that special centres are formed for so-called. Lifelong learning, lifelong learning, how anyone liked it. But the need for adult education is a great need in developed European countries, and we had to join a mild reform of secondary education, because we formed the secondary resources of the centres at the end of last year in 10 cities in Serbia and this will continue. The needs of the economy for a particular type of workforce, their constant training and competences introduces the category that education can take place for adults through these resources of the centres that the state has as its resources, so they are called, so there is space, there is equipment, there are personnel and they register at NOK. The other big reason he gave up here is that there has to be an evaluation of it. If you become a public organizer of adult education, someone must evaluate whether you produce a good fit or not. The Agency is now becoming that body and place to do so. Also, according to some model developed countries, and even some countries in the region that are at our level, it was considered necessary to speed up the process of recognising foreign diplomas for certain recognised world universities, we know the Shanghai List, there are Times and others, and there are fast procedures for eight days. You know that there used to be thousands of diplomas and that it's been waiting so long. It's significantly reduced, but personally I think we need to cut more, and this is one way, so this is one practice that has proved to be good and a number of other technical solutions, so no change is crucial in terms other than these main principles that I'm telling you, all of which is very important to agree. As for secondary vocational education, I will also remind you that in this house we have passed two laws, on dual education at the level of secondary education and dual studies. The dual education law with the help of the Swiss government has already begun to apply. There's that delayed fact, as you know when things went down, while the public finally realized how useful it is for the country and young people and employment. In the meantime, we've brought about the tall one, but he's not in service yet, because he's got that deadline. Meanwhile, there has been a decrease in unemployment and the need for certain profiles by developing the economy is increasing. We have been working to educate children in the same city, at the same school center for one and the same profile in two ways, which the employer does not recognize. We also talked here about looking for subsidies, looking for anything. I then said in this home that very quickly employers will realize that the dual model is something that will be an advantage to them and that they will really be able to get their workforce back and sign a contract with the institution and parents as soon as possible and that something has already taken place. We already have such a real situation. The relationship between theory and practice, where it happens is different when it's dual and when it's medium professional. We had to untangle this at this point, so the dual profiles have much more important time with work training and that in employers, which years of age are getting more intense, and when it comes to medium professional classical, it mainly works in school workshops, can also be done with the employer, can be combined. If you remember when we used to say that kids who type in double, they weren't denied their advancement and learning through life. In the Law on Higher Education, we also have a study with work, but here we have left the possibility that a candidate who has performed dual for three years and started working, two years at work, on the job he was trained for, giving him the competence of the fourth year, but he has to pass a professional graduation. At the age of 22, he enters the system of independent grading and completing one level of schooling, with general graduation and art. It also gives itself space for further higher studies and even academic studies, if four years of professional work and indeed there is a whole line of progress as well as any other. No one's put in a bad position. In a bad position, the old law on secondary education left other students who enroll three-year-olds, classically three-year-olds, because they didn't have that option, because the law was older, it was dually more modern. Here is an opportunity for us to correct that opportunity for them, and hence the harmonisation of the dual law in the middle and this law on secondary education in the most professional part solved this dilemma, and there are a series of small members who are correcting certain conditions, formulating whether enough ruling or satisfying is enough and you will see already in the text, if you have seen it. When it comes to stamps, you know that last time we sent a few laws here in parliament from the IPR field that belongs in a broader sense to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and that these are serious laws that need to advance fields, you've seen intellectual property, patents, and so on, and so on, now it's up to the stamps. Many things change, including stamps and their electronic existence and the alignment of national models, means the issue of stamps with the world. I'll just say one drastically good example, and you'll see through the discussion of the amendment we'll discuss other things. You have in place that now is very often goods of broad consumption, and this is important for all citizens, often more expensive in Serbia than when you go out. Then we're surprised, and basically that first importer and his brand protected him from competition, there was always competition. Now that we spread our perspectives and say that all the other world brands in that field are also something that can be applied to the store, then that will certainly lead to the competition of the downing of the price of the goods, because that illogicality has been present to all of us in layman's terms. I thought it was the domain of the Ministry of Trade, when you see that it essentially starts with stamps. So it's an important change that has been tasked with repairing the situation and that we agree here with the laws themselves with both European and world flows. When it comes to the three laws that have the strength of declarations, or the legislation that has been ratified in parliament, I would remind you that with the French school we signed, Presidents Makron and Vukic, means during last year the protocol in the Serbian palace, where a long-standing procedure has been made to recognize this model of education, means, in some ways, in our system. This school exists for a very long time and of course as well as the German school, as well as the Russian school, as well as other schools that are foreign schools and work on foreign curriculas, is now recognized by our ministry in our area. The differences in the level and methods of assessment lead to the rules in accordance with these same ones. As we did with Germany a few years ago, the alignment of the score is the reverse scale, let's say, when the example of Germany, that the unit is the strongest, the fifth is the weakest, but the basis is what is taught. The essence, plan and program and competence they complete they have that model that we have by law possible, which is that kindergarten, elementary, high school is a small school system. With France, we have a lot of good models when the education of Serbian children is in France and that is an advanced model, so we can discuss it through discussion. This is a ratification of a contract that has been done for many years. When it comes to Northern Macedonia, so we also have in 2015 started, with their initiative, the need to create a better international co-operation agreement on education and science, and we need it now that we have clearly raised the level of interest for our minority in the whole region. I can tell you that on Saturday, I was informed, let's say, by the Ambassador to Ljubljana that over 800 children have applied for Serbian teaching, which was not. And we're fighting that Serbs there have minority status and they show, a real number is not the same. With Macedonia, we moved away at that stage, and we already have, I personally opened departments in Skopje, a primary school, in Kumanovo. We've got a few places to go, but we've got to improve. The Serbs also have more there than some real lists have shown, so our relationship with the southern neighbour is very important to us. So we have very good co-operation, also in the field of learning Serbian language at the university, we have a lecturer in Skopje, there are also in Nis and Belgrade. So as far as their minorities are concerned, these conditions are also allowed here. It is also a ratification of an interstate agreement that is indeed in the upcoming phase. When it comes to the Marrakek Agreement, it's also something from the IPR domain. When we last talked about copyright, their protection, remember that we put all re-emissions through the process of charging all the authors and their rights. However, when it comes to persons with disabilities, especially here with the faint eyes and blind faces, we come up with very specific situations. Since the creation of these books and all the materials is very expensive in Bray's alphabet, then one world conference has agreed and many countries have approached, that these things are not done commercially, and that once created means authorial works for such citizens are available to everyone. So this convention introduces us to the order of countries that our citizens who have this kind of problem and who have hardly welcomed this, welcomed, enables them to print, do and be available for use without great cost. So here we can open the discussion, and I'm in the shortest lines just wanted to get to know you what the set of what we're talking about today is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68534	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is Muamer Zukorlic, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68535	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Attending Committee has discussed the government's proposals in detail. So he considered the arguments that were available to us. It is about the need for existing laws, which have not been adopted so long ago, to comply with what is a challenge for their application and there is no obstacle to them being supported, any of these proposed laws. You know, no matter how much effort we have made to adopt before the laws as we thought best, when you go into their application, the details simply appear, or the circumstances that make us agree, and since there is no need for us to make sure that we don't do anything with ourselves or anyone else for what we said a year or two ago, the most important thing is to keep a close eye on the debate here in the O.R. and be prepared to give any positive suggestions we receive, either through amendments to individuals, groups or committees. So I am especially happy that we are adopting this Marrakech Agreement. He's been waiting a long time. It's a very sensitive thing and a category, and I'm actually particularly glad that we're adopting it today, or we're putting it in the process to be adopted, as well as the contracts that are mentioned with Northern Macedonia, or France, regarding school. So, a package of very serious topics. I say, the Committee agrees that these proposals will be accepted in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68536	Thank you. Are any of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68537	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to congratulate all those who celebrate and all those who go to glory. (Alexander Martinovic: and those who do not go. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... Yeah, who could have imagined last year that Christmas would be celebrated by Partizans. Isn't that right, Mr. Martinovic? So, even those who don't go congratulations because today they can go to those who celebrate and follow them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the former regime had no need for any education, especially for dual. After predatory privatisation, predatory privatisations, in which he left hundreds of thousands of people, in which the country was economically devastated, politically decapitated, economically devastated, created a state and society without a chance for the current future generations. They didn't need any personnel. Perhaps they needed the company of various philosophers within the circle of the second Serbian couple. They're the only shots they needed. There was a competition, was it so, Mr. Minister, in which, for example, Danica Popovic prescribed a late colleague, only so much that on the basis of copyright, she took a million and 400,000 dinars at the salary of over 200,000 dinars. They didn't need any personnel for business, because they didn't have any business. They created a society without an economy that lived out of the man in charge, not the man who earned it. They didn't need investment because their investors were Saric, or their biggest investor was a drug dealer. When they mention "Jovanjica" today, I laugh. It is almost amazing to me that some political parties, arising from the Democratic or Dropocratic Party, who, while being ruled by the biggest investor, were the world's leading drug dealer, Maltena, Saric, when they are now talking about some marijuana, etc., while at the same time marketing to be legalised. The company they built didn't need welders, locksmiths, or scrapers, that economic activity. A chain of factories around Belgrade and around large cities, an industrial ring has been replaced with a shopping mall ring. It was important for them to trade, and the store itself cannot live unless you have your own production. We're living off the product today. More than 300,000 newly employed people are mostly employed in the processing industry. Thus, the need for productive occupations is growing. From their time, we didn't have any welders and locksmiths, scrapers, carpenters, masons, plumbers. It's hard to find a master today. They didn't need a doctor's specialty, etc. They didn't need any new clinics either. It didn't even need new equipment. They did not need the training and specialization of doctors and staff at health institutions. They needed nothing but 619m euros in the pockets of their leader. The only roads... Why do they need asphalts, construction machine handlers? They didn't need that. Those roads they built, those roads led into their pockets. These were highways with ten lanes leading to the pockets of Dragan Gilas, who led to various Kukova and the Virgin Islands, to secret accounts, in which the money, which was folk, became their own. They didn't need dual education because they didn't even have an economy. We have to respect the market today. We have to respect foreign investors. Foreign investment brings new jobs, new technologies and new labour needs to be consistent with economic activity, export-oriented economy and investors coming into our country. It is good for foreign investors who often attack, it is good that except for the money they invest in the Republic of Serbia and new jobs, they also bring in a piece of the market that we can produce and export, because only a small country with offensive exports can meet the needs of citizens, that is to say, to earn income from which citizens buy goods in foreign shopping malls that I have spoken of, and that is about the goods of foreign origin, which should be paid by some foreign money, and that foreign money can only be earned through foreign investments and exports through foreign investments, because foreign investors bring with them a piece of the market where they place their goods. Since then, the Croats who thought they took something from us have changed a little. They invested in Serbia, thinking they would use Serbia in such a way, but it happened that Serbia took advantage of Croatia's market and today we have a surplus with Croatia. I think we also have a surplus with Italy. It's almost amazing that a country that's almost been destroyed in the last few years has this kind of economic progress. We are today repairing or amending certain laws that we need to avoid markets, to combat our economy that we create after a long series of years of destruction in this country, we, in addition to that economy, must and have educated labour. Our workforce can be our treasure. If she's educated and if other than drumming in class they can learn something that's applicable in practice. It's not just about learning and repeating your teacher's lesson. Mostly education consisted of teaching a lesson for the day, and the student merely repeated it. It's not just about repeating what the teacher says, it's about learning something. One who wants to learn something that is applicable and useful will easily find a teacher at every turn. He doesn't have to be just at school. He doesn't even have to be in a dual education firm. Anyone who wants to learn can learn from anything in nature and from society something to learn. I am also concerned about students or students taught by Dusan Teodorovic. Imagine when Dusan Teodorović teaches you, this academic, congratulating size, so someone who's academic. Imagine when he teaches someone, and we can all see the degree of knowledge through social networks. Imagine when he teaches you patriotism, he who fled to the aggressor side in the beginning of the war, fleeing to America, wanting to avoid teaching his students in war conditions and thus showing patriotism towards the country and society in which he became not only a lecturer, but a professor and academic at Belgrade University. Imagine what honour Belgrade University Dusan Teodorovic could defend in the United States when, at that time, an aggressor party saw him as a fugitive who fled his country. Imagine what the Americans thought he could do to their country when he could do such a thing to his own. Imagine the students trained by Jovo Bakić. He must train them in that Ustasha model – how to let Sava and Danube political opponents, or how to identify political opponents. Imagine someone being trained by Vesna Pesic. Imagine with that story - a pipe in your head. If you're thinking about yourself, then you say put a pipe on your head, and if you say put a pipe in someone's head, that means you think you should do it to someone else, not to yourself. Imagine that kind of lecturer. That's why I'm in higher education, from which I've already raised my hands in Belgrade, watching these lecturers, honoring honorary exceptions, but I'm extremely concerned about Belgrade University students, who have a rector who only needs 15 students and a Martian who's been studying for 12 years, who's still three years away from retirement. So it is enough that only elderly time students come to the rector and eliminate some honest lecturers or some people who perform the most important functions in the country and who have a certain kind of responsibility. What should I think of Belgrade University, which is subject to political pressures on the streets of this second Serbian elite? So, first of all, I want to tell our ordinary, congratulating people, who every day takes care to earn enough money to feed their family, to live with honor and believe that they can contribute to the education and education of their children. So I am not someone like Mr. Martinovic, Atlagic, Orlic, who teaches and teaches students and students, I am not someone who teaches some about dual education, although many of the tractors who work with me can learn something. As someone who's been through engineering school and who had to know the scraps at the time, rodents, that he knew the locksmith, who had to learn how to weld, I have to tell future engineers and welders that they were honorable occupations and that they could be well earned. Mr. Minister certainly knows that the welders' salaries have recently reached 7,000 euros. The ones who were welding on the so-called. The "Turkish Stream" could make between 7,000 and 10,000 euros a month. So, it's rare to pay a welder that's below 1,500 euros. It's a rare salary for a master who has some miserable salary. Therefore, it is necessary to train and learn from the markets. Knowledge, applied knowledge is the wealth of its owner everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68538	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68539	No intention of plowing with Mariana, but just to add something I started talking about, and it's up to the general public. Dual education in this House is welcomed by the law on the knife and fork. Indeed, there were heated debates, especially in the left wing. In other countries of Europe, however, it has also been developing. What we did, it's a special model, which is in something like developed countries that have dual models, but in a lot of things it's special, because we have more small and medium-sized enterprises, are different companies in Serbia, I'm talking about domestic companies, which can't go straight to some hard dual, give full pay, etc. But our law is much more flexible, which at first enables both the family and the school and the student and the company to find a common language. And a lot of people find that. When "The Irons" appeared, we spoke to them immediately and they wanted to, 5,200 workers were to be saved in Smedereva and it was a big job. Imagine that we said – you have to pay all the students. That would be an attack. But we talked to them, slowly introduced them into the system, and they're doing it now. When Lin Long came to Zrenjanin, they were already up to us and we already agreed on what to create from the dual profile in the middle, what to the high-level, but the Institute of gum technology and colleges as well as grain, such as the Novi Sad technology. There's now an entire education with an economy that fits well. There are representatives of Mrs Mirjana and the chamber. The arrival of a MT company that has an airline cluster, so industry development is a big deal, a big event for Serbia. There's a lot of pay. Already three secondary centres have entered the system, both Belgrade and Paz and Panchevo and will continue to enter. So we've opened the door for many companies who know we have this model. It is one way, the magnet, that we are chosen for it. We had a little bit of, in fact, we agreed more on the Education Committee that our education had never been so bad, that we needed a lot of things that were misjudged at the educational level, at the level of reproduction of knowledge, at the level of spoiled children and a series of other things that hadn't started since yesterday, to return to normal tracks. Education and learning through work is one of these. The education for a knowledge-based society, innovation, the other day in the tech park, we adopted a Smart Specialization Strategy, where there are whole areas, and that's food for the future, that's machines for the future, that's ICT, that's creative industries, so where we get the absolute advantage that these higher education centers are better developed in accordance with the economy. Of course there are exceptions to every system and education. I wouldn't bring them down just to exceptions in high places. They're all over the place. But the introduction of advice from employers, which these days ends under the Law on Higher Education, things change. Education is a slow system that does not require and cannot experience revolutionary, radical changes at once. So something that's been going down for decades can't be raised in three years, but it's important that it's set thoroughly right. We're here now with this set of laws, but 30 and a few laws have been brought here only from this area and fixed even. So, personally, I think that what the public knows, that this change in reproduction towards learning is a problem task, in applying acquired knowledge, what they're going to give on that PIZA test is a better result, doesn't mean that our children don't even know now, but it does make it easier for them to transfer and adopt knowledge. The training of over 20,000 people annually, licenses for directors, so we have already arrived at the second year of implementation of reform programmes, which is the second and sixth grade and second grade of high school, and very soon we will have the opportunity to get to know the public with the parts of the Education and Science Strategy by the age of 30. We're going to show preschool and primary already behind St. Sava, and then high school, with dual high school, with all the other elements, and then high science, technological development, investment and standards, and then after the summer and financially what it might look like. We're gonna do a big public hearing. For a year various teams work, scientific and academic communities are included, primary and secondary school professors, associations, institutes, societies, and the general public will be introduced from month to month. So it's changing in Serbia. Quality education is coming back. And what Mr. Jokic said, we used to have that. There's a lot of things we can overwrite and go back to the drive, see what the world's doing, and there's some logic where the story should go. A much harder part of the job is coming, which is to apply and implement it. Bad habits are a miracle, and that the big system suddenly introduces that it starts to function perfectly is very difficult. Big changes can be seen, we digitized pretty fast. Progress in some teaching processes is terribly visible. And I think Serbia will be a very important country in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68540	Thank you. The word is Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68541	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I want to congratulate the Minister first, he is probably here in the National Assembly on the discussion of laws relating to the education system, for science, for new technologies, for innovation, I think more than 10 times during this three years and he speaks enough about the activities of the Ministry of Education, him as Minister and his team on the development of the aspect of modernisation of our country, which, with economic growth, economic reforms and economic development, represents a vessel of our country's development and what is a policy and a fundamental strategic definition of the policies of the president of the state, but also of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is the survival of young people and equal opportunities for young people to progress, that young people can be educated in quality and, of course, to remain in our country, to have the opportunity to work in the best foreign and domestic companies, but also, to provide them with the opportunity to provide them with their personal and business practices. It is essential that Minister Sarcevic, I simply highly appreciate it, was determined during the three years. He managed to reform the basic, secondary, and I mean the higher education, since there were the most problems. It hasn't been cut off, and that's what's really the greatest value, and some heavy measures, or, perhaps, some moves that someone else might have avoided, given that in all these segments of our social life you have strong opponents of change and those in that system may be decades and any change, of course, affecting their own particular but also other interests that have certain cartels. The minister did it in a very good way and did it very bravely when it comes to higher education reform and did not hesitate to share the same relationship with the archin and with private universities, universities and schools, the same archin has to do with those who are state-owned. I think the measures that have been applied, especially when it comes to the establishment of academia of vocational schools, are what we really need in the whole country. This is an example of how in one host way it refers to state resources, because only the establishment and reform of higher vocational education is very important, because it is easier to control processes, but not processes in the educational part, theoretically and practically, but it is easier to control costs, more efficient and effective work and, of course, higher schools and colleges in a better and more quality way can do their job, which is to create and educate comparatively or as more competitive staff who will work and who will be the main factors and bearer of this country's development. It took strength, it needed courage, it needed knowledge to do so and, of course, the point of this mandate and it is the Law on dual education, the Law on secondary education, the Law on Higher Dual Education, and that is something that will in any case lead to education in Serbia being better. What wasn't in the past decade is a relic of the so-called. The socialist system and socialist governance in our country, where thousands of people were educated for maybe non-existent or those occupations where they could never find their jobs, and for that reason, in 2012, when we came to power, we had over 26% of the unemployed, we had over 40% of the young people who were unemployed. This is the strategic problem which, over the course of these five, six years, has been resolved and President Vukic, fortunately our citizens, especially young people, managed to solve, which is that today we can praise the fact that unemployment has fallen below 10% and that we are on our way to reaching unemployment that is important to the more developed European countries, therefore, EU countries, which is unemployment from about 5% to 6%, that this last, third quarter, we ended in 2019 with economic growth of 4.7%. So, we are the first in Europe by percentage of economic growth, and we are moving slowly towards having this economic growth of over 5% in the coming years, which is exactly what will make our young people, when they finish high schools, colleges, universities, secondary schools, and professional schools, fast and able to get jobs, can quickly and in a quality and efficient way to get into the business process, to adapt to the business process and to bring benefits to their employers, whether they are domestic or foreign, but also that this environment that we have created, and it is definitely favourable for business, favourable for business development and adjustment, to motivate young people to especially in the IT sector and sectors of creative industries to start their jobs here, stay here, earn money and pay taxes in their country, because in the previous years we have had a situation that young people, especially in the field of information technologies, go to the US, to the right-based businesses, to the US, to develop their jobs, to the jobs, to the US, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to get jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to get jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to get jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to get jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to get jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the new jobs, to the state. This and these amendments and additions of this law will do a lot, on dual education, as I will focus on it and focus on it, contribute to the fact that the personnel coming out of secondary schools are ready and, when it comes to their trades, their professions can immediately start working, have some experience in both theory and practice and can connect it well and can be able to immediately the next day when they come to their jobs to get their benefits for their employers. We have many examples here in Serbia. I am very sorry that the political scene in some way defines, and this second half of our Serbian opposition here, which focuses on negative things, on false news, on the collapse of the image of its country, and on the other hand you have one ordeus, one company whose incomes are measured by tens of millions of dollars, almost moved into a new smart building in New Belgrade, which sends a message to our young people - stay in Serbia, I have earned money in Serbia, I have educated in the Republic of Serbia, I employ young people here in Serbia, stay here. So, it is possible to study in Serbia, it is possible to start a business in Serbia, it is possible to achieve your dreams in Serbia if you have knowledge, if you have value and if you are committed to your work, if you are industrious and not only the company Nordeus or the company Comtrade or some other company that operates here and employs hundreds or thousands of people. Here's an example of the US NSR, the US NSR already employs in Serbia about 3,500 people. It is no accident that the US "NSR" chose Serbia to be the centre of business of the old American company, which is decades old right in Belgrade and to employ exactly in Belgrade and Serbia 3,500 people and eventually invest and invest in a large 92m-euro science and technology park. Serbia is slowly, as the minister said in his exposé, becoming not only an economic Hab, not a Hab that defines Serbia as the centre of this region's economic, tourist, investment and opening of factories and production plants but more and more is Serbia's Hab creative industries, digitalisation and information technologies. Why? Well, in many ways, because the strategy of our higher education and what has been done in practice in higher education has led us to have people who can launch such business initiatives, but we also have people who can work in a good way in foreign and domestic companies and meet all those requirements and challenges that today's market and great competition have, not only in the region, but in Europe, but also in the whole world. We are not talking today, as in the period until 2012, about factories that employ workers on the so-called team. manual or labour-intense business, we today have knowledge-based factories based on artificial intelligence. There are more and more factories that require engineers to work in them, to work in them the most qualified, most educated personnel. Here, you have in Pančev a newly opened factory, Brose, where the average salary is 1,700 euros net, 2,700 euros gross, 460 workers are employed and will be employed in the factory. Can you imagine what that means for Pancheva? Now there is not my colleague Sandra Christmas who can tell what 460 engineers, people with higher education, economists and managers who will be employed and who are employed, in fact only one factory in Pancheva, that I am not saying how we and how we managed to cross Serbia's factories over the past few years. You hardly have any place today, no small municipality, look at Krupanj, look at Vladic's Han, the southern Serbian who is the most vulnerable, where we have the most problems with migration, so, with the departure of young people who didn't have just a few years of perspective, and let alone to get a job. Now the Ministry of Education, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, does not build this hard infrastructure, it is known to everyone and it is seen. It has been built over 250km of highways, Serbia is cross-border, Serbia is building a fast track and rail towards Budapest that will connect us better with Western and northern Europe, because the railway is not only going to Budapest, but also going to Brno, Bratislava, Warsaw, connects us with Poland, connects us with the countries of the Visegrad Group with which we have excellent political and economic co-operation. Serbia is not only building this hard infrastructure, Serbia is building soft infrastructure, developing science, investing in science, investing in education. Serbia is slowly becoming one and a scientific and educational hub with young people who are highly educated, highly qualified and who will be the bearer of our country's development in the coming period. This soft structure is just as important as the one that concerns building bridges, building highways, which is the vessels of the housewives of our economic development. This is why Serbia has today, and we ended in 2019, with nearly four billion euros in foreign direct investment. It is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is, dearly, our citizens of our country, it is the policy of this government, it is the policy of our majority in parliament, it is the policy of President Alexander Vukic. Jobs, modernising this country, building infrastructure, developing an economy, a job for every young man who wants to work, who wants to learn, who wants to improve, that's patriotism in this country, and no one that kind of patriotism can win in any other way but that it has better results. Now let me look back on those who would do it in some illegal way and do it. What is the answer, what is the program of those who should be our political opponents in every normal country? Those who should, perhaps, delegate us to a better law on dual education, or perhaps some comments or some constructive proposals are gone today, at least one part of them. They are not to say what the programme is for Serbia, what they offer Serbian citizens, how will young people be employed, how will we have more electricians, welders who by 2012 all go to Germany, to the Netherlands, to Belgium? Now they're staying here and that's our program. A man, young people, their staying here, their jobs, their dignified lives of their work, of their education, of their qualifications, therefore, equal chances for everyone. What'd we get from some of them? Here, the other day, we can also be witnesses to this, instead of saying – well, we may have an additional proposal to improve legal solutions, to improve legislation, we have received a bullet threat at the head, or by sending a pipe to the head of the president of the state. Is that politics? Is this what one part of it offers, to the soul, a small part of our political opponents to the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia? The Social Democratic Party of Serbia strongly condemns such a hate speech, and I am free to say as a national MP that such statements and such behaviour of course exceeds the jargon and what defines the political struggle. I can understand the passion of political struggle and I can understand the opposite of ideological and political and each other, but there is something in political life itself, but also in our political and all other relationships that must and what separates us from each other, which is morality, that is responsibility. What we have in the past not only a few days, but in the previous year two, starting with physical attacks, threats, so we had ten meters from here, the whole of Serbia could see a physical attack on Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. It's nowhere to be found. For eight years, I've been active in parliament, I've been following political developments around the world, I haven't been able to see anything like that in my political career. Every day he attacks the President of the Republic. A death threat, so where's our prosecutor? What's next? What kind of message is that? Is it a message that anyone who thinks of it, anyone on the street, what is it with ordinary people? What about someone who here, who supports our policy, is a normal man, works in a factory, works as a university professor or you people who came here with a minister, members of his team? Does that mean anyone on the street can curse you, tell you – we will shoot at you because you think otherwise, because you have ideas, because you work, because you work for your country? Are these people normal? We have to be solid regardless of some political and ideological differences, and we have to stand in defense of what's called normality in our country, because it is threatened. We have to admit that. It is threatened by the attack on the President of Parliament, it is threatened by attacks on the President of the Republic daily, and we should finally be and should not step forward from those who do so, because it is usually the way it is in our lives, we say – let go, what to do with such people. (President: thank you, you've wasted your time. (Laughter) Thank you, President. Of course, we will vote in favour of all these draft laws and agreements even though I have focused today exclusively on amendments and additions to the Law on dual education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68542	Thank you. The word is Zarko Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68543	Thank you, Mr President, honourable ministers, with your associates, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS about the laws which are subject to discussion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. In fact, the SPS parliamentary group believes that the laws that will be discussed today, adopted in a few days, improves the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, increases its efficiency, enhances the coverage of students in the education system, addresses issues related to the application of dual education, find solutions that make the system more efficient, resolves the status of one foreign school in Serbia, ratifys an international contract that allows blind and impaired persons to use textbooks that were, I say, protected by copyrights, solves many issues that make the education system of the Republic of Serbia a quality. I mention this because I think unfortunately there is no adequate relationship in Serbia with the education system of the Republic of Serbia and with what the Ministry of Education is doing. There's more to being said negatively than positive. Those positive, beautiful, valuable things that the education system produces last very short. Any success of students or mathematicians, or any other generation of students in the education system, is news that lasts one afternoon, and tomorrow already does not exist, not taking examples of good practice to be the idea of leadership for others. The desire to improve education has been seen by some as a desire to integrate their personal interests into the education system or to form an education system according to their understanding of the content of education, so that they cross the line that the law establishes, in some cases and limits of jurisdiction. Teachers have been put in a situation that, regardless of what the government is trying to do in terms of the economic situation, increases employees' earnings, simply being part of one general flow, rather than being someone who is together with the ministry, what is the creation of the education system, implements in practice and, as I would say, raise the value system of education of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we as a people have learned not to appreciate, unless we are first in something, it turns out that if we have a Belgrade University, which has been among the first 500 best universities in the world for years, of 22 thousand, it itself has an exceptional significance. If our students in the last decade have adopted several hundred medals in various competitions, from Balkan, European, Olympics and world competitions, this is proof of the quality of the educational system and of these schools that these students educate, but also of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. If our children show that knowledge in other competitions, then the question arises, why do we not have such a relationship with education within Serbia. I think there's a lot to be asked of education, and there's no respect for what education does. The minister, in fact, is my personal opinion, in a situation where he and his team have been solving problems that have accumulated for decades and, let me say, by putting out the fires that have occurred, because the education system has several hundred thousand students, even the level of preschool education, students, over one million and 200,000 participants in the education system, then it can be understood for a small country, such as the Republic of Serbia, how much effort that system needs to be made more efficient. I think the Republic of Serbia does it all the time. I think this ministry is trying to, not only follow the innovations and technological changes that are part of the modern world, but to implement these innovations in the education system of the Republic of Serbia at all levels. Again, we must objectively take care of both our specialities and what we can do. We cannot expect, for the sake of example, that our dual education explodes unless we have a good economic situation, and we have a good economic situation thanks to everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia did a few years ago. On the board, an hour ago, we mentioned that three educational profiles were implemented in 2013 thanks to GIZ, a German organisation related to secondary education. Today is the year 2019, we have 37 profiles in dual education. I only mention this as one indication that a good result cannot be achieved overnight. It takes constant learning, constant application, continuous innovation, but we need to respect the education system of the Republic of Serbia. For critics of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, I use a simple argument, if we are so bad, why are we so well quoted? If we're so bad, why are our kids going abroad so easily? Going abroad isn't just heresy, abroad is going to learn and with this sublimed knowledge, individuals come back and learn here. It is not unknown that in doctoral studies in America, at least a few years ago, there were students from India, China, Russia, and only then were domestic citizens taking those places. It is not the process, I say, of the conditional movement of young people within the education system of the world, something that is only a characteristic of the Republic of Serbia. It's a process that takes place all over the world. Here's the point, can we provide them with conditions when they complete a certain level of education to return and what they've learned to apply. I think the ministry is doing more and sooner or later someone's gonna have to figure it out. I am glad to talk today about these laws, because it is an opportunity to always talk about the education of the Republic of Serbia, because unfortunately I think that in the perception that is formed in the public, education does not have the importance that it deserves. Sometimes we ourselves, perhaps by discussing here in parliament, to go first from the MPs, by the way we talk about education, because unfortunately someone here shows their political dimension, rather than educationally, if the opposition criticises, but not in an argumentable way, but the individual cases are being drawn up and they are being made public, and then the entire education system is qualified. Of course, that doesn't even mean that the education system is ideal, there's a lot inside the education system that needs to be changed. I would, in light of the individual solutions that are the subject of the National Assembly, come from that system law, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, because of course it is always one law that unites everything that is important for the education system, and you have listed here four main reasons why this law has been amended. I think it's very good, and somehow in this general story we left little of these individual solutions out of the debate, and I think it's bad, and yet unfortunately it confirms this my thesis that more talk about education is general and less individual. These individual examples show that we have a quality education system. In fact, we have approached the amendments to this Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System because certain provisions needed to be brought into line with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. This unique information system of education is very important. That's what you've been talking about for years. For years, it's been said, I think it's very important that it's taxing on what's going to be the contents of that system. I think that simply on the basis of the information that will be contained in the unique information system of education, it will be possible to make a number of decisions in a better way, which will be far more important for the education system of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't put all the elements of the changes on the Assembly's agenda, but I would also mention this third reason that somehow remained, I say, on the side. The law also changes because the issue of education and training of students, students who do not know the language in which educational training is carried out, was more specific. This in itself says how much we are, as I would say, a broad system, a just system, how much we have a wide, just system, and we want even those people who are in trouble, short-term, long-term, that depends on the length of their stay in our country, to help keep the time here as short as possible, and they get the education that they can benefit from later in life. I think this is not only a noble one, but a very good solution to be absolutely affirmed. The fourth reason is to enable greater availability of quality education and education for all children with development and disability disorders through the development of guidelines that would improve their educational work and look at the needs and opportunities of each individual child, as well as groups in general. I mention this, I read part of the reasoning of the law, but I can't help but mention that element of justice that contains the education system. I think it's very important that this law simply contains not only, of course, I would mention a unique educational number, something that will be part of the identity of every student throughout his education period, but also a register of institutions, a register of accredited higher education institutions, which is very important. I know that in years before we warned, we warned the students to look at which programs were accredited, which were not, which the higher education institutions had accredited, but somehow all that remained ignored. I think it's a good thing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System covered all these elements, seemingly and informative character, and in fact essential character. I'd like to say a few words about two laws, about one less, about another more, and that's the law on secondary education and education and the Law on dual education. As you stated here, the Commission for the Development and Implementation of Dual Education considered it necessary to prepare amendments and additions to the Law on Dual Education and the Law on Secondary Education, in order to eliminate the identified risks and ensure the sustainability of dual education and its quality of application, especially since school 2020 and 2021. This is why this law changes on secondary education and education. But it's also good that the Dual Education Act is changing, in a way that is even better than it is. The minister mentioned that we started with three profiles, which is what I mentioned, that we had three profiles and a certain number of students, a very small number of companies. In 2013 and 2014, there were 400 students, I read this thanks to the December 23rd conference on dual education, so I also saw some data and repeated it for myself, but now also for the public. So it started in 2013 and 2014 with three educational profiles, with 400 students in 16 schools. Today we have 35 dual profiles, 6,100 students and 880 companies. What I need to do, I am fully convinced that this will be a solution in the future, to increase the number of profiles, to increase the number of schools, to increase the number of students and to increase the number of companies. The companies, thanks to the government's economic policy, are constantly growing GDP, but also creating conditions for foreign companies to open their factories here, creating an opportunity to simply respond to dual education. I am pleased that our country, the Republic of Serbia, is responding to these market requirements. Namely, one of the first and basic reactions that I have learned by dealing with the once-in-a-lifetime education system is the unsaid direction of the World Bank that there is no education system in transition countries that can respond to labour market needs, because the market is constantly changing, but dual education in the way we apply it here and based on experience from Switzerland, Germany and Austria says that we are on a good track, that together with companies, with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, with employers we can offer students a choice of interests that can define their life tomorrow, that we can offer a choice of interests that will make his life of quality, to help choose the interest that his family will make richer and happier, to simply create a young man who will start a family here in Serbia tomorrow, to do all the good things that are needed for the development of the country. I'm glad that dual education has been promoted this much, and I absolutely disagree with those critics of dual education who think they don't deserve the attention they have. On the contrary, I think that should be as much as possible, because we have the structure of the education system, we have also at the level of secondary education and general education, secondary vocational education, we have dual education, I mean, for everyone there is room, we just have to work on all these elements. According to these solutions, I think companies should make a list that they want to participate in the dual education process by October 30th, that the Chamber of Commerce, of course, sublimates and delivers it to the Ministry by February 14th, so that the ministry has enough time to prepare everything else for the application and development of dual education. What is important about the amendments and additions to the Law on dual education is that dual education is added to allow for the realization of both master and specialist education, which is an education for two years, if I may say, this is an extension of dual education. I think it's a good thing. In order to avoid the possibility of dual education after the first cycle of education being the wish of students, to say that it is not in the first place, I think it is a great solution to allow students who attend educational profiles, i.e. students of eighth grade primary school to apply for dual education prior to the final exam. I think this solution is great, then really those who want to participate in dual education will be part of dual education. I have seen that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Dual Education also contains a solution which also includes internal affairs and defence bodies among employers, which again speaks of the expansion of the circle of persons who are part of this dual education subsystem system. I think it's a good thing that these other things are related to the dual education functioning system are solved, seemingly technical, but for me it's very important that the employer's obligation to notify the Chamber of Commerce about the termination of the dual education contract when the contract is broken at his request or some solutions that simply improve the dual education system. Your Honor, I'm saying all this for the reason we're talking about these laws today. Of course, more could be said of them, but also of other topics. It should not be forgotten that today we are discussing a number of laws, so my obligation as an authorised representative of the SPS is to say a few words or sentences and some other laws, and my colleagues will speak in more detail in the debate. In the case of amendments to the National Qualifications Framework Act adopted in 2018 and which have established a single national qualification framework covering all new types of qualifications, regardless of how they are acquired, formal education, non-formal or informational learning, i.e. life experience and work experience, and independent of life, it is important to point out that the amendments to the Law refer to the evaluation process by higher education graduates who have conducted reviewers so far, which will now be implemented by qualifications agencies. I think this is a good solution you wrote in article 38. The law, that universities that are among the first 500, really implies this solution that if someone who applies to have completed one of these universities that must finish the issue within eight days and the rest within 60 days. I am glad that the issue of French school status in Serbia has finally been resolved, it takes a very, very long, and I have looked very carefully at the whole structure of this document. You're very detailed, and I'm glad it's so detailed. Why? There's another side to this story, Mr. Minister. Since a large number of our children who are students of this school, in case any of these children have the intention of returning, if I may say so, to our education system, are now precisely arranged and the levels of completion determined within the school, so there will be no particular problems, because in some previous situations they have had to take some additional tests. I am particularly pleased that this law is part of these strategic relations between us and the French Republic. I want to congratulate you on that. It is not easy to introduce a foreign school into a system in a way that can serve the interests of both countries. We suggested that at some point in time and just that you had one idea to build a high school, then there was a story about a third high school that would have a program in French and Serbian, together made by two ministries and where students who would attend that learning program would have the opportunity to continue learning in French school. Finally, given the weather, I would like to mention this Marrakech Treaty to enable access to published works by persons who are blind, weak-sighted and otherwise disabled from using printed materials. I think it is strong, that it is good that we, too, adopt as the National Assembly of this Agreement, for the simple reason that children can be given the opportunity to gain better quality education, using the provision of this agreement regarding the possibility of free use of books that fall under copyright, and for their better education and better living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68544	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68545	Respectfully, my colleague Zarko has given several interesting weights and I am simply obliged and for the public to expand and supplement a story, especially co-operation with France is very important at all levels. Recently, the president and I were in UNESCO, but we had bilateral meetings with the French ministry because of the diaspora and because of scientific co-operation, and because of everything that can be done from a good education system in some way, inseminated or integrated with national works. Our system law makes it possible for every school, including the Third High School, to create a model of an institution and to work on one of the concepts that she wants, with the help of course, you know the Institute and the National Educational Council themselves, that's legitimate. What is done differently in France now when it comes to Serbian additional schools, because the ministry is already very intensively engaged in Serbian additional schools, a good programme has been developed, inspection visits them, we give personnel, it comes out of some semi-legal way and it is designed perfectly in Germany, Switzerland, France, Italy etc. At least one representative of the ministry will go to the Svetosavina celebration in various parts where we have our children and schools. France is working on an innovative model where there will be no additional kind of teaching on Saturdays, but will be a Serbian living language and will be within the regular working week. That's one improvement, because then kids can be in the clubs in front of churches or anywhere in the community to deal with other skills, culture, etc., but it's forced the needs and we're working on it, a working group to standardize the Serbian language so that someone can assess the knowledge of a child who learns his language, but there as a living language, means which state recognises in the testimony. This facilitates the process and allows us to make this model in other countries where there is no classical model of Serbian additional school. In some regions of Germany, there is no such model but there is a BHS. BHS, unfortunately, came from some coercion after these events in the Balkans, where Bosnian-Croatian, Serbian, is the same story. I insist on proving in the field both at bilateral meetings and ministerial meetings that we have every honour for everyone, but we do not have the same letter, does not have to enter the school teacher Bosnjak and tell Serbian children merhab in the middle of Christmas or Easter. So, it doesn't matter, or vice versa, that we don't politicize the story, but it's simply not the same culture, the letter, and neither will the Croats want their children to be handed over to Cyrillic. So in Austria, where we have the most diaspora, this torment is expressed and we have waited for the elections to go back, as this team of the Ministry who is willing to talk to us on the subject, and now there is this French model as a very good model and is working very intensively in other world and European countries. When it comes to what you're talking about, about the visibility of our smart kids, it's really true. So, let's pay attention for a couple of hours, be one news in the journal or not, and a lot of things go undetected. So we don't have an instrument for these kids to be particularly rewarded. They get the Saints' confession at best, some commendation, or that teacher. We've now had several teams of children who won't be able to be covered for this occasion and the ceremony, but they'll stay for the next one, because now at the last minute they've got some excellent confessions. I would like to point out that the Faculty of Pedagogues within the University of Novosad, I would also like to point out that the Faculty of Technology of Novi Sad, where they worked and in China won a lot of recognitions about new learning technologies. The excellent link between the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade, which created a real boom in the field of renewable sources, and that is something we will be able to look for ways to support. Why did I use this to say that? Here, I said to the Education Committee, we got one donation, and you'll see in six Serbian cities, in Belgrade the most, the billboards we didn't have to pay for, but we got, and we decided to show the highest quality kids, champions in various scientific disciplines, and there stands, by the parts of the city, meaning their individual, or group photos, where they stand from which they competed and what they got. I think that's how we're going to get to know the public we have, who we have to respect and appreciate and see that we have beautiful children. We're going to teach our children and our system to do the PISA tasks, that our system didn't recognize it, we're working on it now, and that's one process. When I say it's at least eight years old, I'm sure I'll agree that it's a quick time. But it's simply not an indicator to say it's right or wrong. If Belgrade University falls, a number of points on the Shanghai list, it is a tragedy here, but we have only just now designed a new Law on the Science Fund and a new Law on Science and Research. So, to encourage researchers, young people who would go, stay or have a relationship with the diaspora. The Science Fund made the first call for young people and we've already raised 50% of the budget for it, and the second call was for scientific diaspora, the third one for artificial intelligence. So, in order for something to happen, it has to be about that, and when we talk about Shanghai, you can see that he is also the subject of this amendment to the NOK Act so that not all of them recognise universities, where it is also Belgraden, all go through a strict procedure for the recognition of diploma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68546	Thank you. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's today may be a chance to discuss the overall state of our education. We've had opportunities to see a large number of scandals over the question of textbooks. Today, the most represented publishers in Serbia, "Clet", "Logos", are all owned by "The School Book" from Zagreb. What's last we could see is that in the seventh-grade history textbook, it explains that the blood tax, therefore, the repressive measure of Turkey's empire, the abduction of children from families of enslaved peoples, was not actually a repressive measure, one of the worst that was carried out in the Balkans, but actually one opportunity to advance in the hierarchy of the Turkish Empire. So, where it was approximately desirable for Turkish harrakes to come from some Serbian family, for example, either Bulgarian or any other from the Balkans, to kidnap one child to make progress one day in Turkey. Now there's one question, of course, that's not the first time that's happened. We also saw some strange maps, fictional, historical forgeries, depicting some kind of Croatian empire to the Serbian state of the Middle Ages. Completely historically incorrect, but what would surprise us, given that these people, through their publishing houses, not only come here to make money, but also to deal with politics that way. We accepted that, and it's our own fault. I might ask you a question, does anyone from the Ministry of Education or the Government of Serbia, or from any other institution, at least list those textbooks before they show up at schools? How can something like that happen to us? This, of course, assuming that the government of the Republic of Serbia disagrees with what the textbooks say. How much time does it take to hire resources and so on? Not too much, sure. But we haven't seen anything like it stop. Tomorrow, according to that same principle, it may occur to us that in fact Jasenovac was not a camp for Serbs, Roma and Jews in which 700 thousand people were killed, but in fact one opportunity for employment, one work assignment. Tomorrow we can see how bombing the SRJ was actually a good thing, an opportunity to refresh diplomatic relations with the international community. We can also see then that the UN tribunal was positive in fact and just for the Serbs and the Serb people, not a political instrument aimed at condemning the Serb people for the disintegration of Yugoslavia. So that's all that can happen to us if we're still acting like there's no problem with the textbook. We have the “Official Messenger, ” we have a textbook for teaching, home publishers, i.e. State publishers. Can we come to a consensus that Serbian-language textbooks and history textbooks should not be a matter of the market? I guess our culture, education, care for the protection and preservation of national identity and cultural identity may be more important than that diversity of the market in textbooks. They cannot be the same textbooks in physics or mathematics with textbooks in history and Serbian. We see that in that way there is a change of heart. So, to teach us what it is that we need to observe some historical phenomena and, in line with that in the future, to behave, to create a kind of identity. The mentality that needs to be subjective so that we may find it much easier to accept certain roles that so-called. The international community, which is the euphemism for the most powerful Western countries, has dedicated to Serbia. We already know, we have heard this many times, that the problem with Serbia and the EU's relations is not only that there will never be any membership, but one cultural, above all, barrier that exists between the EU and Serbia. They simply think that we are not worthy enough of them, that we are different and worse than them and in all ways, they don't even hide it anymore. That's how it's confirmed. Again, the responsible government should see the problem, that one of the finances of the Croatian Democratic Community, Ante Zuzul, is standing among all these publishing houses where, after identifying problems, scandals. So HDZ is actually the master of the textbook market in Serbia. I think we should see the problem in that, not just react when it's already in the schools. There's something that's been working for 20 years in Serbia, and that's so-called. a quiet or cultural occupation in Serbia. Representatives of NGOs, the NGO sector, who seem to be self-worthy and their actions are positive whatever they do, also hold a monopoly on the truth. So if they think it's for example. Serbia's state has carried out ethnic cleansing in Kosovo, it's something that cannot be touched, that Serbs have committed genocide in Srebrenica, and it must also be a widely accepted fact, themselves that they bombed, i.e. They're guilty of being bombed by the North Atlantic Pact. It's their theme. This is what has been coerced continuously in the field of culture and education for 20 years. We have yet to see reactions on the issue or any opposition to the campaign, which is very aggressive, largely financed from abroad and directed against Serbia and the Serb people. Let me remind you, we also had stories about how the Serbian cultural heritage of KIM is actually Kosovo, i.e. and Albanian. We of those who are the main moral authorities in culture and education also have the organisation of the Mirdita festival in the middle of Belgrade, thus promoting Kosovo culture. What do the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia think about, we could also see from the very act of attending the former Minister of Culture Tasovac, the current SNS city councilman in the Belgrade City Assembly, at the event. Obviously we don't see it, i.e. Serbia's executive power, above all, sees no problem in all this. I will remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also funding the same NGOs. First of all, the Human and Minority Rights Office for 2020 has set out 300 million dinars for funding NGOs dealing with the protection and promotion of human rights, which of course became a euphemism for such action, primarily in the field of culture. So, the Helsinki Committee, Jukom, Women in Black, Civil Initiatives, House of Human Rights, and all others are funded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can then have a promotion, so-called Srebrenica genocide in Belgrade, the Mirdita festival, the promotion of Kosovo culture, performances related to some major Serbian aggression on peaceful and friendly Croatia and all other things. It's all about this very much. We haven't seen anyone resist it yet. Either there's no reaction or it's supported. It is the official position of the Republic of Serbia, because if someone was responsible, they would not have allowed such things to happen in Serbia. How can we pay for the Miridite Festival in downtown Belgrade? How can something like this show up in our textbooks? As for the Serbian language, there should be awareness that a group of self-called intellectuals, but mainly consisting of hohstapplers who are financed to work against their country and their people not only from Serbia but also from the region, signed some declaration of the common language. So, common anger, not a sprawl language, but a common, naski, whatever it is called, Yugoslav, which should push out what they say is Serbia's claim that all the language spoken in the countries of the former Yugoslavia is referred to as Serbian. Imagine that nebulosis? We can rightly expect that if such things go through in history textbooks, as far as "blood tax" or the boundaries of medieval states or liability for war and other things, in the textbooks for Serbian language, these attitudes, that is, those opinions of these NGOs and their exhibits. We should have fenced ourselves from it in time to time. Tomorrow we can find in these textbooks of history and the existence of a Montenegrin Orthodox church. Can that surprise us now? The same ones who lead the main word in our culture, in our public life, that so-called. Belgrade's charter came up with an "appella 88" which, among other things, was supported by Milan Kucan and Stjepan Mesic, who should prevent Serbia's influence on internal opportunities in Montenegro. These are the same people who support all these things -- and the Declaration of Common Language and Forging and Factory of History. We don't see the Government of the Republic of Serbia doing anything against it. Who would be surprised to see tomorrow in the history textbook something about the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, or the Serbian occupation of Montenegro? We couldn't be surprised when this other one didn't surprise us. Since we have on the agenda and a number of international agreements here, it may also be an opportunity to talk a little bit about international relations and the latest developments in this field. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not responded for nearly a month after the scandalous adoption of the Law on Freedom of Religion in the Montenegrin Assembly and all other events, and I will remind you that in the middle of the night in Montenegro, an entire parliamentary group of representatives are arrested primarily of the Serbian parties and of the Serb people in Montenegro, that this is not the first time that there has been open discrimination against the Serb people in Montenegro, that we already have a Montenegrin nation, as one of the historic forgeries, some kind of Montenegrin or native language, and now it has come to Montenegro's Orthodox Church. Everything is aimed at dissipating and building a quasi-identification with the heart of Montenegro to suppress everything Serbian. What has the Government of the Republic of Serbia done for the past month? What should be done urgently, if what we had the opportunity to listen to from both the President of the Republic and from the Minister of Vulin, and from others, is true, that this authority is committed for the first time since 5 October to protect the Serbian people wherever they live, should refer to the initiative to hold an emergency session of the UN Security Council, where it would point to the position of the Serb people in Montenegro and its threat. Let's protect them, all Serbs, wherever they live. These Serbs living in Montenegro don't live that far. I believe everyone has been informed of all developments in Montenegro. So, to show the government of the Republic of Serbia and responsibility and to do whatever it takes to protect this people. This is where the thesis is being replaced. Some have said that, in fact, with these initiatives and discussions on this subject, we actually have some suicide moves, we want to start tanks and go to Montenegro and other things. No, the government of the Republic of Serbia should make all diplomatic efforts and not call for internal issues of Montenegro, as we see both Stjepan Mesic and Kucan interfere in Serbia's internal affairs. So, the Serbian people in Montenegro, first of all, have no constitutional status, although there is more than 30%, absolutely no respect for the human rights of the Serbs in Montenegro, see how many are employed in the public sector - there must not be a man there to declare that he is a Serb, because he is being shown, and then we also have these already open attacks and threats by kidnapping the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church, sacrificial objects, not just land, beach and what was already public on the subject. It's just that they Serbianly want to drive everything out of Montenegro, and that goes past us, we're looking at it from the side. So that's inadmissible. We must first show our intention to protect the Serbs in Montenegro. If we don't, they'll be getting braver and braver every time, they'll have all kinds of crazy memories, just like this with the Serbian Orthodox Church. For a month now, a huge number of people in Montenegro have been protesting against the law, because they are aware of the dangers and are aware of what is coming to them. There is no room for the Serb people in that and such Montenegro. The responsible authority should do everything in its power, starting with diplomatic initiatives, raising the issue to the highest level, and then all the rest. So this is a key issue of the international relations of the Republic of Serbia to which it should react as soon as possible, and it has already been a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68548	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68549	Dear People's Messenger, in many ways I would agree with you, but I am also obliged to give some explanations to both you and the general public. The state of some poor interpretations of history or insufficient national expressions has been found. It's a job that works for the Institute for Upgrading Education and Education, through its boards for textbooks. So we've been dealing with this a lot lately, because the reform programme includes the first and fifth and second and sixth. So the seventh grade is going to change. In 2015 he was brought here in this house and the Law on the Liberalization of Book Printing, from one publisher to many publishers, according to some European rules. Then an opportunity was missed to protect the so-called. national programmes. That's what many countries do. Now we would have to coordinate many laws, change and influence that it is a market change, which is difficult. We have another mechanism that we built. Seven months ago, a unit was established for national programmes, with the same Institute, where they are later employed, we got that quota, so for programmes of national subjects, these are history, geography, native language, literature and culture. The unit has already developed everything related to most of these items according to a unique national plan and programme. Publishers have to respect now, or they don't have to, I'll tell you what if they respect. They must, in full capacity, without improvisation, publish everything we consider to be national, and that is enough to cover the first war, about Jasenovac, about everything we want to protect. The mechanism exists. If the publisher doesn't want to do it, simply, the minister has the right now not to put it in the catalog, and no institution can choose that textbook, so, yes, they would -- they wouldn't, or they'd go out of the market on that matter, or they'd all work for the sake of interest, and the way the state suits it. On January 16th, we had a press conference in Germany about it, introduced the public to these people, and presented this exactly what we're talking about right now. I don't know if it may have been mistranslated in public, but it's already come to life. So I hope it doesn't happen anymore, as it did. My comments you could hear in the media that I certainly disagreed with the story of how someone presented both "Blood tax" and how many paragraphs Jasenovac or the first war. It even happened that sometimes the only publisher, the Bookshop, doesn't even have the capacity and quality for some methodical units. That's why we've tied it to the single care of the state and tied it up the way I said it earlier. When it comes to Europe's attempt to make a common European textbook, it is already happening. I was present in Paris. Of course we immediately built an interesting block, we, Russians, Belaruss, Azerbaijan, even Turkey came to us, for the reason that the most talk will be about some modern history. (Milorad Mircic: Was Makron's teacher? It's not. There were a lot of ministers here, not to talk here, not a chance, who was, who wasn't. But it is interesting that I led the controversy here in Belgrade with their ambassadors and people who represent us there in the Council of Europe, because I was very bold, because I said I had no confidence in that kind of textbook, because we had two examples in the last year, that when 100 years of the First World War were marked, the Serbian delegation was in row seven, and you can think, the Kosovo state, which never existed, was down in the visible place, and the host country showed us excellently what it thinks of modern history and how the children of Serbia will experience it. The same year, last fall, was the first time the start of World War II was marked, for the first time. I find it strange to mark the beginning of World War II in Poland. They were all Croats and others, and Serbia wasn't. And even if it's marked in a nutshell, we've again got a good example from Europe that even for World War II, they don't experience us the same way. Where are we? What does it belong to us where we've paid for both war and blood? Only then did I ask them a question – how do you think I believe that such a textbook in Serbia will pass on about the last events of the 1990s, where we will automatically acknowledge genocide in Srebrenica or anything? You've seen new documents from the British elections to deny it, from domestic sources and stories about how Jason's, The Hague, and so on will be presented. But the important thing is that we are present, that we are involved in being able to react in time. The worst thing is to sleep over and react to someone else instead of us. So, as far as the ministry is concerned, these things are absolutely clear. The Bureau has to do this under a lot of supervision, so the director of the Bureau, the commission, and everything else. I insist on that. These really are relics. When you talk about a work that is a culture of UNESCO, many may not have the perception that education is more represented in UNESCO than in culture, because science and education and culture are both components of UNESCO, in its abbreviations stand. It's much more dangerous that so-called. Kosovo tries to enter UNESCO through education by proving that they are young people, that they are interested, etc. We have a fully prepared study of who founded the schools there, who founded in Skadra, in what conditions now Serbian children learn, in which other children learn, so we are not passive, we wait only for that chance. But then I saw in UNESCO that someone entered the catalog, you can enter the site in 2006 that our monasteries are the Kosovo monasterys. In 2006 Aren't they racist style, if you won't say Serbian? You know, you won't find comparisons in the map of all the goods under UNESCO's protection, and by that classification, this is all that's written down. Then it was hard, a breakthrough that was tried to be made in UNESCO for culture that way. So, for education, we're trying to build a block, so it can't happen. As for Serbian language, here we have now made, finally, a team, long time ago, we have prayed to the Faculty of Philology, and now we have invited Matica Srpska and all the philology colleges and we have invited all the institutes from Leposavic to Belgrade and Novi Sad, which are engaged in Serbian language to standardize Serbian language. I don't know if you were in the O.R. when we talked about the cases of France, Austria, we're working intensively to get out of the so-called Serbian additional school. BHS systems we don't welcome and respect. We went out in Germany alone in North Rhine, Westphalia. We are now making diplomatic arrangements, because every province in Germany is a state for itself, has its own minister of education. So, it's the hardest thing in Austria, but fortunately the same government showed up, the same minister who's willing to just talk about it. So four months ago, we got to start a unit that takes care of Serbs in the region. I just pointed out that since this morning the Serbian language has been officially in use in Slovenia, so about 800 applications have been registered, there are many more and there will be. In the first run, we're already organizing the sending of teachers and everything else that needs to be. It's been a long time and it wasn't working. I agree with you here, but it's legal and every other procedure that this kind of thing doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68550	Thank you. You stayed in the system, Mr. Seselj? You're staying in the system, aren't you looking for a word? (Alexander Seselj: I'm looking. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68551	I don't know how it can still surprise someone that representatives of the EU or some Western European countries set up Serbs, i.e. Serbia's delegation is placed in the seventh or eighth order, while Hashim Thaci is behind Tramp and Putin, etc. We don't know what they think of us and that they humiliate us in every possible way and everywhere. So that's something that's really unclear. On the other hand, you may not have been, Mr. Minister, not perhaps, but in 2015, the Minister of Education. Right? You became Minister of 2016. You may not be a party vessel. So most of you who chose you have so many MPs that they can declare day by night or vice versa and are able to pass some law, i.e. to vote on a bill if such an initiative comes from the Ministry of Education. We propose, we advocate it, we think it is in our national interest that textbooks from history and the Serbian language textbooks should not be a matter of the market. So we don't need to watch that publisher that's state-owned on that profit. So there are so many other sciences where it can be a diverse market, but as far as history and Serbian language are concerned, our culture, tradition, national identity is much more important than whether a private or state-owned enterprise is going to be profitable on the plan. That's what needs to be done and then it couldn't happen to us, whether it's because of a failure or because of intent or whatever, to read something like that in a history textbook for any class, at any school.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68552	Thank you. The word is Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68553	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you will allow me first and foremost in front of the JS parliamentary group, given that the first meeting in the new 2020 after the holiday, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, colleagues, the presidents, representatives of the ministry wish a successful New Year and a happy religious holiday and today's St. John's Day, and since we have very important laws in the fields of education and our students, educational workers and representatives of the ministry of the future Holy Sava, school glory and what is very nice and what we have heard today from Minister Sarčević is going to be included and world-class awards and that well-deserved students, who are both progressive and resilient, will be rewarded, which is very important and stimulating in their period of education and growth. Dear Ministry representatives, distinguished Minister Sarcevic, JS MP Dragan Markovic Palma will give full support to all proposed laws that are on the agenda of the first assembly session today. It is the Law on the National Qualifications Framework, the Marks Act, the Law on the Education and Education System, which is important for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following these Assembly meetings to note, the Law on Medium Education and the very important laws relating to the benefit of blind, weak-sighted, this is this Macarai law, which will allow the use of printed materials. First of all, I want to commend your team, which has now been at the head of a very important ministry for three years with Minister Sarčević in front of the JS parliamentary group, especially because the reforms you have carried out at the moment when you took over the leadership of a very important ministry were also a strategy until 2020 from the field of education, some 20% were realised, that you have succeeded together with us here in the National Assembly and the laws that you have proposed, which the National Assembly supported, your team and your hard work, but also created conditions in the Republic of Serbia, which we must certainly highlight and which citizens of the Republic of Serbia absolutely see created conditions and the results of very valuable work, which is also President Vukic, who is the initiator of such difficult reforms, but which have proved to be very useful today in the domain of the education and education system, especially commended yesterday, that these large ruling parties, including his party SNS, and the great support of their strong coalition reforms, and the JPS. So today we could not talk here about these important laws, and about the national framework of qualifications that is important because it connects the system of work and the system of education if good and favourable conditions were not created in the Republic of Serbia. We have voted here on a budget that is good, which is developmental, which has increased the financial resources that contribute to your ministry of education and education, and where you have in one proper and domestic way these funds. It should certainly be noted that in the previous three years 900 elementary schools and secondary schools, it has only been renovated and reconstructed. This is huge progress, because in this way conditions have been created, not only in large cities, special progress has been shown in smaller environments, even in rural schools, where many after 100 years, where nothing has been done and where they have been destroyed, created children conditions, that they can work, that they can learn carefreely, and teachers and teachers, along with the many changes that have followed, in addition to the increase in wages, that their only concern is to raise and direct our children properly. Certainly that favourable, I should say, political and general economic environment in which we can talk now about education and education at a very high level, your ministry has seen it in almost all sectors, even when we talk about a network of schools, which is very important to me, because I come from a smaller environment, where there are a large number of rural schools that are very far away from city schools and where you are despite numerous negotiations with schools, even at one point it is said that many rural schools, which have one, two or five students, will be shut down, it is very important that you and those schools have left to work, that these students can attend classes in their midst. At the moment when the Republic of Serbia is fighting against the white plague, fighting for every new child, for every new student, for the Unique Serbia, it is of great importance that these schools are not closed and that by creating these conditions and bringing young people back to rural areas, we would only later create a problem, because once the school was shut down very difficult to reopen and restore life and education to such a school. So the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, all the reforms it has made, we evaluate with highly positive assessments and what is very important, very commendable, is that you are the only ministry that has closed Chapters 25 and 26. Also, we are always surprised by the criticism, when we talk about reforms, that they should be visible immediately, overnight or within a year. Certainly, to say the implementation of certain programmes and solutions is already visible, let it be visible perhaps in a shorter period of 2022. - 2024. What is most important is that your plotted plan for this implementation of these programmes and that you will also be able to leave one good piece of work to your successors, that by 2028 we have one fully configured picture and education and education and all programmes and implemented strategies. The JS parliamentary group certainly supports your work and all reforms and we and in the National Assembly supported all the laws that you have proposed so far. In truth, perhaps the largest number of laws and your presence, I almost think this is the 11th or 12th session, which is especially with the new bill proposals, and you have always been actively involved with us, and I would especially like to thank you for answering the last session of parliamentary questions. Your team and ministry have already passed on to the JS parliamentary group. The answer concerns our children with special needs or children with developmental disturbances, and concerns the making of a Regulation on the teaching assistant and the adagogic assistant, which is important that in 12.12.2019, it was finally created and placed on your Ministry's website. It is important for parents, that they know this and that they can also look at the site, that together with the schools, which they missed and did not make proposals in time when the Ministry instructed, that they can practically perfect certain teaching assistants, that they can do so now and that you will also support this kind of pedagogical assistance in the smaller environments. Also, the Dual Education Act, which follows the previous laws on the foundations of the education and education system and the Law on secondary education, is very important for the JS MPs. We are proud of the fact that my president, namely JS President Dragan Markovic Palma, was one of the initiators of dual education and all the laws adopted regarding dual education we supported. Dual education has proved that in practice in the Republic of Serbia it is absolutely feasible, but also flexible to the conditions of the economy in the Republic of Serbia and that with the new strategy and your new internal acts, by creating new profiles that require the labour market and to say the introduction of new capital and foreign investment, which is also very important to us, because Jagodina is a city run by Dragan Markovic Palm and that presides over foreign investors. You especially commended ministers when dual education began to be realized, that Jagoda was the city that gave the best conditions for the realization of dual education. Now there's a large number of profiles, about 37 profiles that can sublime themselves with dual education. It is very beautiful and positive news that Jagodina will become the first city to use artificial intelligence and a company that will enter with its capital will work in many sectors of the IT sector, using artificial intelligence through the design of smart cities, which is very important because smart villages create much greater conditions than those that Serbia has so far had. These are some suggestions that are very important. We're very proud of that dual education bill. It's an incentive for our children and our students to have that practical work in addition to learning. This is important because now industrial centres, at all, industry is looking not only for theoretical knowledge, but also for students at the time when they are due to start, at the end of school, actually finished students, to have a certain professional practice and education. What is so important is that you pay particular attention to crafts, which is very important for Serbia, because on some level we have remained short of the staff of a large number of trades and that in the Republic of Serbia's budget wages have been increased when certain craft jobs are involved. Also within the framework of the National Qualifications Framework, in addition to linking education and work, the possibilities of lifelong learning have been created, which is very important and perfecting our staff that even after school, college, they can continue and be educated. Also, what I particularly want to point out is that, when it comes to the education strategy, which was envisaged by 2020, only about 20% of this strategy was realised, but that you have effectively compensated almost 100% of the implementation of all the objectives set, and that the European Commission has particularly commended it, for all that has been achieved by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, so that what we can expect in general from the education and education system and from your ministry, is that the job has been well done and that we can only continue on these qualifications to possibly change and shape, which in practice show some shortcomings, that there are very good and very high quality laws. Our children and even a Serbian nation can freely say, highly intelligent, so that the conditions created in schools, technical and educational ones that they need to work on even more, because really educational workers have a lot of their working time to devote just to raising and educating children, besides a family that is the basic pillar of society. This segment may be the most important, because it also creates a working habit for them and becomes high-quality people in life. So, we have what the educators specifically addressed to us, is to stop the ban on employment that applies to them, so that in one segment they got a little upset about the competitions, but you also explained what was very good, that first they would have the advantage of educators who worked for a certain time until 2014, but that they would be in February, in March of the month new competitions for other workers who worked for a certain time and those who didn't have up to 100% working time, as I understood you, so it's really good that everyone will get a chance to have a permanent job in schools. Reforms are educated, highly trained education, the Fund for Science, the Fund for Innovation Work, graduation, dual education from the Republic of Serbia's budget, that money is certainly provided, so that the education and education system is raised to a very good level and in that domain we expect and we can never say that something is great, but that we can really mate both world education and tomorrow our educated and high school students and finished students and students on the world market. Also, it's very important not only in laws, not just in words, when we're talking about stopping a major problem, which is economic intellectual migrations that aren't just about Serbia, but for all the countries in the environment, because we know about the collapse of SFRY what ever happened. However, it is important that the Republic of Serbia has created real conditions so that we can stop the outflow of young people from Serbia abroad, that we can offer them jobs, that we can offer them better education, scholarships, that whoever wants to learn, that whoever wants to work, will really be able to stay in their country, will really be able to start a family in their country. So, that's commendable, because Serbia has the will, Serbia has the strength. Young people see this, young people are increasingly returning from abroad, and it is commendable that more and more of our people who are in the diaspora are being negotiated that, as conditions are being created to return from abroad to our country, this investment and their capital will be very important. Perhaps what I would especially like to ask you is that when it comes to rural schools, certainly sport is very important, and it should also be at home schools alongside regular sports activities, because of the healthy lifestyle and today's way of spending their free time, and a free sport should be introduced as an extracurricular activity, given that all parent schools, and I've followed it on the ground a lot, and now your Ministry of Youth and Sports has donated a number of equipment for both ball and technically trained halls, but it should also be done in rural schools. The rural schools really cry out for the gymnasiums, for new equipment, but it is also very important that, besides the home school, they always force the home school, that you have real insight into rural schools, because there are still a number of rural schools that do not have complete technical conditions. I believe that you have this planned, but that is purely one suggestion, because it is very important that they have trained and heated and all the other conditions they have and parent schools, so that you have the full support of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, Dragan Markovica Palma, and in the day of voting we will support all your draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68554	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working as necessary today and after 18 hours. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68555	Well, because of these interactions, which you commended me for, it's time to say again because of you, and also because of the public, that by bringing some regulations into this home is actually one big first step. A colleague of Obradovic knows it best, a much harder part of the job follows. So, set strategic goals, measure yourself against yourself equal and those you want to reach, we also did, but implementation by forming various bodies with skills, so-called "tools" that should be done. It's very important that whatever's going on in society, it shouldn't be so turbulently changing, because it's not a man's attitude, it's not a team's attitude, it's something that's continuity. When we talk about sports, I'm very pleased to inform this home and the public that it is currently in the final phase of making a new curricula and a programme for sports high school. Not what we have now, this is a surrogate, this is a general direction, and come on, come on, come on, come on, and do what it does. They're justifying classes and it's easier to talk than to go through this normally, so kids struggle with relationships to get there. We work in six cities, a pilot, and it will be already for the next school, so Saturday, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Užice, and this is the first stage in six cities, so the number of departments is made up of schools that will be associated with us with certain disputed alliances and the Olympic Committee. We have with one seven sports alliances, volleyball, basketball, judo, tennis, etc. already made agreements. We're making these days with the Athletic Union. We're going to force first of all Olympic base sports, gymnastics, athletics, because that's going to define later, and swimming, of course, in terms of how the infrastructure works. There's a phase two in that domain. If we want a healthy nation, we'll do it somewhere by my estimate optimally in about 17, 18 cities. This one network in Serbia will give children a chance to have knowledge and skills and to be able to beach the general prom, but they also have sports district complexes, such as sport and health already entered as an electoral programme and such as – training theories. Children will be most easily able to study areas such as the Faculty of Physical Culture, Sports Reporting, a coaching call, a pedagogical call and everything in that area that arises, sports medicine. It's the first and second stage of sports high school, and it goes into strategy. There's a larger number, a significantly different class is organized. We have distance learning, a really different organised system of work, and that is finally a requirement that both sports and learning must be treated in the same way. No discount, on the contrary, because they're going to prom. When it comes to basic education, where we really want to get more children to the sport, I'm going to give you just one piece of information, this year the pilot program started from September 1st of 304 objects, it's 211 institutions, since some have an out-of-state department, single-minded, pedagogically enriched work when children stay in school after finishing regular duties, have lunch and most sports, no school without sports. Now it's important to look at it and do it and within the ISP that we're talking about, it's absolutely all going to be written down where there's an O.R., where there's no O.R., where there's a little gym, where there's even a pool. It quickly opens in Vrnjačka Banja pool and is the government's view that wherever the school yard is allowed, and some small town is not there, the pool works within the school's environment. So much has been invested on the infrastructure and 60% has been increased in the Ministry of Education's budget for this year. We have about a thousand objects done in these four years, not full, three and a half years, and that's almost 40% done. So this has to go on, because long before that nothing has been done. I am truly grateful to both the President and the Government, who has an understanding and this is absolutely one priority when I talk about sports. Employment was launched, with an agreement with the prime minister and other members of the government. We wanted that justice to be served, that it wasn't really self-will or director, or false union pressures, but as so far, we took care of technological surpluses due to the fall of birth in one of the most honest ways. Here, let all the unions tell you, as much as we don't love me or the government, that maybe three cases are taken out a year as one we have to discuss. That's how we're gonna do it now. So, we started that, this morning I have a report that the first tour of January is somewhere between four and five thousand, four and a half thousand and five thousand, and that's going to be a change in their status. It is not a new job, most women are young, capable of birth, and I expect this to be a very important measure for Serbia's ethnicity. What is important to know about your city, and as part of the promotion and development of the Centre for the Promotion of Science by adopting, again here in this House of the Law on Science and Research and the Science Fund, we have done through the center, the promotion that exists, the Republic, already three centers, is already a vision for archeology, languages, social sciences and fives that have long existed. The whole network will soon have, I think, in the first five years of the strategy's implementation plan, about 16 of those centers. One of the centers will be Jagodina and it will be for teaching, thanks to your high-quality Teacher's College and the facility in office, so I will come over these days to talk about it. It will be a practical function, because because of the poor status of educators, there has been a rash and non-gathering of this profession, a very weak enrolment of people who would teach in schools mathematics, physics and IT, we change it by affirmative measures, new programs and different status of these people. In order for the Institute of Promotion to be mentioned, which has to carry out 20 and a few thousand people training, to get a partner and help, we now have Jagodina as a very important partner in this, and otherwise we are already doing some new centres and there will be an opportunity when we talk about the strategy to tell us where they are and where we assume there will be a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68556	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia continues its work in 2020 precisely on the subject of education, therefore, with a subject which can, quite freely be said, be best addressed to the needs of this country and this people in the future. In this year, Mr. Minister, we define, we represent, and we've already started to do that, but we're precisely establishing a development strategy in the area your ministry is dealing with for the next 10 years. It is about the education and education development strategy until 2030, and it is originally presented and is waiting for us in months ahead, to step by step, in detail, from one segment to another that concerns both education and education, explain what we are going to do, what we are going to do and what we expect to achieve. As far as we are concerned, it is worth saying and worth knowing that by the European Commission, in particular by its education commissioner, it has reached the assessment that the Republic of Serbia has realised its strategy in this area for 2020, i.e. for a period up to this year with a 100% success. So, all that we did, what we in the National Assembly discussed, which was what our society in public debates were about, and about education as a topic, we were very successful in bringing it out. So congratulations to all those who took part in this work. When we talk about what the plan is and what we're going to do for the next 10 years, three basic goals have already been set. The first is to improve the quality of the educational process in general. The second is to increase the scope of education and to fully implement the concept of lifelong learning in practice. The third is to reaffirm the role of education in society. Realising all that it takes to meet these three goals, we certainly show that we care about the perspective of this country, the people who live in it, in the best possible way. All that we are discussing today concerns precisely those steps, the modernisation of Serbia. We have talked many times about modernization through the concept of digitization, through the introduction of new services, through the introduction of all those smart, modern solutions that are today at the world level of trend and we have introduced them into a million and one area so far, into many of them we have made historical steps. When it comes to education, in this sense, today is one of the topics of certainly a unique information system of education, which have again been attacked, although it is a major reform, all those who, on modern Serbia, want to know nothing, because they do not want to know anything. Have you ever heard of those who dispute this concept and dispute, of course, the former regime, why is that wrong? Why is it not good to know, as they never knew, how many total students are going to school? What do those students teach you? How many will be able to complete their primary education with what success? So what are they going to write down later? Does that have anything to do with it? What are we gonna do tomorrow when the labour market turns? Where are they going to work tomorrow? With what receipts? How close will it be to what they've been trained for? It was never known in this country, because no one was systematically involved, and today it deals, by introducing these modern solutions, by answering these questions. And what's wrong with that? It is only bad for those who, like representatives of the former regime, such as Dilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, Tadic, have to compare modern and successful Serbia with what they have done and what they have done to the country and every success and in modernization, but every other one, is an additional defeat of them and their policies, further proof of their publicism, their negligence, their disorder, their ignorance, finally, and their thieving, because it was not possible for them to flourish, and for Serbia to shut down and land, so that it would be an accident. And we will certainly continue to modernise the country in every sense, even when it comes to education. It concerns what we're discussing today, of course, and the question of dual education, as the concept we talked about in this room many times and reminded, so let's remind ourselves today. So many of the world's companies, world-famous, famous and successful, come to Serbia to invest at this very time. Why? Because they say, among other things, because you have such a good solution when it comes to dual education, so, that concept that he introduced as a topic, which he designed as a solution personally to the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. The first advocated the idea and worked with the Ministry of Education to create good ways for us to introduce it into our practice today, because the latest data says – more than 7,000 students in this country are in exactly such programmes, in dual education programmes, more than 100 schools in this country are realised with the success of more than 30 different dual education programmes and more than 400 companies participate in it. So not only are there people who are interested, but they're great numbers, they're numbers that show you that we have something to count on tomorrow. Young people, capable, smart people who learn much more practical work than they could ever imagine tomorrow will have something to give to themselves, their family, their place of residence, eventually their society and their beloved country. What those who have granted themselves the role of some real opposition, whatever it means to them, critics of everything that exists, until they muddle again a good idea, an idea that brings some new success, some new happiness in Serbia. So here are the representatives of the former regime, then in the form of MPs who were still able to wander into the hall here and there, and today they are not, but just stopping by the register, talking, laughing in the face and talking complete nebulosis of the type – you are making slaves of the students in Serbia. That's what the MPs here told us, representatives of the DS. They say you're turning students into slaves. They even mentioned our friends and partners from China and said that our friends and partners from China would be handling the slave labor here. Imagine that insolence, they said then – just as they do, these friends and partners, in their China, are holding slaves there. That's what they told us here. That's what Balša Bozovic said, and that's when Milojic Ken and Aleksandra Jerkov and everyone else joined. And today, they're probably scratching their later senses, because they remember our words -- you're burping, you're becoming Latvians and fascists just like Bosko Obradović and Dvori, because you're telling their stories. You're hanging around and one day you're gonna be sorry. They're repenting today. Do you see what they're saying now that they've come across a problem with their binoculars, what Bosko Obradovic is driving them around today? They say, "Oh, he insults us. That's not what we stand for." Dokhan. That's what you are today. That's what you came down to, because it was your decision, that's what you chose. But that's your problem. And today when they say that Balša Bozovic and that Aleksandra Jerkov – Obradović is a scum of Ljoticovska, you remembered late. They'll probably regret these words of theirs about what a dual education is, about the idea of some kind of slaves being made by young people who are given perspective, who they've never given them. They criticized investments, among other things, in China. Look at the factory that exists today on the territory of the city of Belgrade, a factory that exists in Obrenovac. At the moment that Alexander Vukic said - there will be no factories here, people will work here and be in hundreds of measures of new jobs we bring, they lied, they lied, they've hystericald -- it won't be anything, it'll be 10 times less, 100 times less. Today we're not talking about hundreds of jobs that aren't any plan, but exist. More than 3,000 people today "Meita" in Obrenovac only hires and people work here not only from the territory of the municipality, but from various municipalities. There are examples like this throughout Serbia, to start from the northernmost point, from the entrance to our state border to the south, you will go from place to place, from city to city, from municipality to municipality only to factories and plants that it has brought to Serbia, Alexander Vukic, investments that he himself has provided by enforcing his authority, but also by finding solutions for us to become world companies. In these factories, in these plants, hundreds are measured, today we can say, we have new jobs, existing and real that are measured by hundreds of thousands. These are the results when he takes care of the country, these are the results when he takes care of himself and his dual education as a solution, but also everything else that involves lifelong learning, we go back to it. We think wisely we will build our future patiently and wisely. He reminded himself then of the words of the legendary Simon Peres who told him in a direct conversation has his place in the world, has his place secured in the future by the people who know that students besides learning have to work for a number of hours each day, and workers besides what they do have to learn a certain number of hours each day. He who so sets up his future creates it in the right way. Whoever doesn't think about it has allowed time to trample on it, and Serbia certainly won't let it in the spot, let alone go back into the dark of the past. Serbia will deal with projections and creating its own future. It is the policy of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, among other things, when it comes to education and education. When you look at what the results are, what are the effects, what can young people expect to go through our education and education programmes today. You can see at this point what we have managed to ensure by working patiently and wisely implementing these solutions in this area, among other things, designed and designed by Aleksandar Vukic. Today we can say – people unemployment in this country, unemployment rates are down 10%. When do you remember that happened last time? Certainly not at the time of those geniuses who are able to tell you you don't need a factory in Obrenovac or you don't need a highway in Obrenovac which today is reality and anyone can see it naked, just like there are many other factories. What kind of tycoons like Dragan Gilas that say cool – we don't need any highways. Well, they don't need him, they don't need him and those like him because they don't go in Serbia. They don't care about the road or the car or any other car. They don't even know how the people live, they don't even know what Serbia looks like. Besides, when they travel on planes, they travel. What matters is not what the people need, but what the tycoons need. But when you think about it in another way, then, well, it's simple, sometimes funny, even though the bitter taste is present when you listen to these people, genius for everything and everything, but it looks only smart and only successful when it took hundreds of millions of euros in their accounts to sort of fit, just like that Dragan Gilas did, and completely incompetent, uninterested in anything when it comes to the people. Do they have some way to point the finger and say, "This is what we have done, this is what is left of us?" They don't have any. That is why they are bothered by those who built their work by Aleksandar Vukic, who provided SNS policy. The Grace of the Great, who passes through the Obrenovac, but also the complete Corridor 10 and the southern and eastern arms and all that concerning new jobs in this country, can only bother them because it reminds them of who they are, what they are and what they left behind. And how we are going to design Serbia's needs and how we are going to work on them, among other things, through education programmes, is directly related to the "Serbia 2025" Strategic Plan, which has been presented to the citizens of this country by the President of the State of Aleksandar Vukic himself. There you literally have all the elements. What we're gonna do, how we're gonna take care of that future, how we build it. And through the new highways that we need, we certainly need, through new factories and investments that we absolutely need and that we are going to attract as successfully as we are today, even more successful. Through that elemental infrastructure like a sewer that was never cared for by members of the former regime. They didn't think to do anything. I guess there hasn't been a decade before me, so it won't be in these decades when I'm shaking, and then what happens next is someone else's concern. You see today when people care about Serbia. And these projects, these types of infrastructures go into budgets and solutions are found on the world's money market to finance it, because it can be done whenever it's worried, when it's thought, but when it's done domestically, it can also be funded. Also in these plans, the strategic plans of the "Serbia 2025" programme include scientific and technological parks, but also other facilities of crucial crucial infrastructure, such as clinical centres. When they were in this country, when we could say – here you see we built them and equipped them before Alexander Wolf and SNS? The answer is clear, there was absolutely no such thing as ever. Of course, this education also has a significant place. Young people can expect that thanks to these investments and these plans contained in the project "Serbia 2025" they will be able to expect much more work in Serbia, but also better living conditions, certainly better standards and projected and announced. Serbia can wait there in 2025 with even more significantly better incomes, average incomes. Already today, when you look at about 500 euros on average or something more than that. It's much better when it compares to the average 320 and something as it was during the former regime, those leftovers of the yellow company of Gilas and others. Serbia can reach some 900 euros in income on average if the plan is implemented as planned. They can significantly add to pensions that are bigger today than ever, but of course we all say they need to be even bigger, they deserve to be bigger. There's someone working to be bigger, but we need to stick to what we've drawn and what we've got, and so far, I believe we've shown unequivocally, we have the strength and we have the knowledge to implement. I can only, of course, tell fairy tales and make up whatever members of the former regime that it's not real, that Serbia can't have Serbia for six years, imagine, to get an average of 900 euros, but at the same time, in the same breath to say imagines, but if they were in power, as if they were never, as if we didn't know what they were doing, but only if they were in power, then they could say in six months to an average of 1000 euros. Does that sound like it makes sense to you? Does that sound convincing? These smiles I see, they're a good answer to how it all sounds to you. Of course, it's not only not about notorious nonsense, but it was about 320 on average. But compare literally whatever you want, whatever segment of life you want, what it was then, and what it is today, so let's see how different and better it was, better only for them, of course. And when they talk about how impossible it is to achieve this plan, well, here they are told by economists these days, possibly, of course, that it is. We even have an example in the immediate environment, Romania has managed to significantly increase its incomes and its standard of living, without having that kind of investment, that kind of strategic investment, or that growth rhythm that we plan to achieve. And when we talk about growth, well, what's better, today's results that say for the previous year a whole 4.4% of the growth in this country, or the previous quarter compared to this moment that we're talking about right now. These are all the results that literally put us at the top of the world. When you compare it to not growth, but minus three point something in 2009/10. year, you understand that Serbia today is a very different country in a positive way, a different country. Not only can it, but since the question has been raised here today, how the world sees us and how it measures us, do they experience it this way. Well, it's what they're experiencing. They say we're not worth enough, think someone on the side. Mr. Minister, are they closed, I think I heard that today, Chapters 25 and 26? Well, that's what the world said. And that's how the world sees it. And those richest, most successful Western countries say, here in that area, we're certainly good enough to be nothing worse than them, in which we're even better. Those who say they mind our recognitions are both the IMF and the World Bank and the European Commission, because they do not like them politically for some reason. I hope they like the UN at least, I guess that shouldn't be controversial to anyone. Do you know what the UN says? The United Nations said that about a month ago, Serbia according to their parameters called the Human Development Index currently since 189 countries totalled 63 in the world. It's in the top. So four categories exist for this human development, the most developed, highly developed, medium and low. We're here at the very top highly developed by what they measured and they said why we're still where we are. Due to the exceptional results in finance and economy in the previous year, due to exceptional results in the area of education among other things. So that's the answer to the question of how the world sees us, and it can see us that way when it represents us as the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, you all know and I don't have to tell you how personally it has contributed to having a historical high level of relations with both the political West and the East and anyone else in the world today. Such results in terms of relations both with Europe and with the Russian Federation and with the People's Republic of China, we have never had in this country, but it should have been known to be ensured, it should have been done. When someone says it's about dignity. There is much greater dignity for nurses in medicine today when they have an average salary of 50,000 dinars than at the time of the tycoon and the former regime when it was 30,000. Let's not worry about dignity, doctor without specialization then 50 grand today over 76. Much better and more dignity today. And when we talk about everything that dignity should represent and what it should be seen in. Well, in the way the world looks at us, make a difference. When Serbia had the strength, when Serbia had the spine to represent its interests, on all the issues mentioned in this hall today, when it spoke - we were on the right side, and when NATO collapsed on us in 1999. She has the courage today to say that in her name Alexander Wolfich. When did Serbia have the strength to say - we are on the side of our people, who in 1995, on the justice of God, in the greatest crime that has taken place in Europe since World War II, were expelled from Republika Srpska? Today he says and says that, in years of age, when Serbian-born Aleksandar Vukic. It was never possible during the former regime. If we're going to talk about dignity and Srebrenica, with our friends from the world, thanks to the re-declaration of our policy, which the president of the state has defined, we've managed to protect ourselves from this terrible stigma. They, who once rocked this country, never cared about it. Much, much more dignity, but also success in efforts to protect this dignity, Serbia has today. And as far as I can tell from today's press, besides taking care of himself, by getting planes, tanks, armored transporters, here she comes, and six systems of S-1 vests. Compare this with Serbia, which was only seen to destroy as much as possible and to make the state weak as possible, so that some four companies would supply their company with 619m euros. All-faith Gilasu and Gilasima. As for what is an alternative to this policy... (President: time has passed. ) The last sentence. Alternative to this policy, when you look at the messages of the former regime are messages to Alexander Vukic, put your whole head on, this comes from their side, these are messages that only dead Wolfs are good Wolfs. These are messages coming from their side. And it is not known whether they are louder or more hysterical when Serbia records new results in the economy, or when Aleksandar Vukic says with personal courage - there will be no crime, there will be no corruption, there will be no dealers to destroy our children, but we will take care of our future. Now, if that's an alternative, then it's clear to the citizens of Serbia and they say -- we want a country facing our future, we want Alexander Vukic's policy, and the tycoons, Gilasi, Solaci, Miskovici, go to the deepest darkness of the past, where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68558	Thank you. The word is Mladen Sarčević. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68559	I thank the People's MP for asking the right question and the subject of why the JSP's inauguration in the first place. So, really, if the country is fully digitized, if our role models are Finland, Estonia, Singapore, South Korea and China, which is a giant in education and what do you want, then that's really an excess question. If someone else were to introduce him, it might be the best thing in the world. But this phenomenon of nihilism, that now whatever was done on the side that held the position and the power to be wrong, just because she's doing it, that's the story of putting on glasses so you don't see the bridge, the highway, the factory and everything else. But I don't know what leads to the idea that if someone promises education workers right away in six months, 700 euros, well, he had a chance. But from what, 700 euros? Well, from someone else's money. You have to make money first, then give your 700 euros, not see that someone else did, and now where he thought he was going to invest, you're going to say it's smarter to get off, to make him look important and smart and give you 700 euros. That nonsense is everyday. And all that is done is not done for them, for some media, for the sake of children's well-being and for the sake of Serbia's youth. At least that's how I experienced my function and the role I'm doing. But you have a chance, let's say, to replace the principal of one elementary school in Sapac, imagine why -- steal the system, 14 pages of the report of the Republic's inspection, two fake departments, come three fake jobs, manipulation with children with special needs, that's those IOPs, when you get better employment, and you get about eight people more, times 12 months, times gross wages, that's between seven and nine million pairs. So, the budget-stealing thing. That's what he's responsible for. No, you'll see the mayor of Sapac, the current mayor, that he keeps fogging around that region and putting on some weird glasses and explaining that it's not true. Well, you have a Republic inspection on the Ministry site, so if you don't believe her, I don't know who you trust. It all says exactly what the woman was doing. That the whole story is even more accurate, in November we stop the school account, to fix it, because it can't be done. When there's that JSP, there's no way to do it, there's no stealing the system. We saved over a billion just on education, but we didn't just return it to the budget, we got a thousand other ways to improve the system's work -- we introduced this one-way work, we introduced a high school reform, it's new employment, it requires other people. But if you steal the system, then you don't have it. And someone stands in the political protection of something they don't defend. There's probably going to be a criminal report. Someone's defending it for political reasons. You may think so. Let's just say, 16 times I explain to one MP who doesn't come to work, I explain that he as a lawyer needs to know that the minister doesn't have an institution to hire anyone, so much he'd have to know. And I'm going to keep, for the hundredth time, I'm going to hold a 16th press conference and I'm going to give him data on republican inspections for every job in Turkey, high school, and that's not enough. Again, a man yesterday, as a Kraut tra-la-la, I don't know what class he was studying, what class he was studying and which college he graduated from. I really doubt his initial education. No evidence, no exact evidence, I've instructed all the journalists to go directly to the Republic's inspection, that all the data will be taken, they'll get everything, from a to a, and it's not important and it's not enough. So that senselessness that JSP doesn't need, it's no good, it's nihilism. It's that Ludski movement, to tear down the machines. How are we going to value the quality of work in higher education, to ask you? Are we going to check out any extra graduations from every college graduate? Nobody in the world does that. There are other types of indicators. One is employers, one is internationalization, and one you get through what this young man has finished and where the employer sees it. You don't have to know his name and name. It'll be protected. You have JOB, you see the phenomenon. You can see that he studied effectively, that he gave a college term, that he had high grades, that he had a good job with a good employer, that he had a big salary. Now, that's an indication to young people who are going to go to college without enrolling. With strict application of the rules whether you have a financial background, if you have a bank guarantee, if you have enough footage. Well, do you know how tough a college accreditation policy is, a study program? And what's that JISP gonna say? Well, there'll be a direct connection to NAT. Here we have established it, by the Law of High, the body of accreditation, which is national, which is independent, that it will say that you are now submitting a list of teachers who are already working in 15 places. Yeah, now the system's red, you can see it can't. From here you will see that this image of decency and quality will be shown very quickly and very high. That's why we started with the professional. And not to mention how many kitchens there are, how many terrains there are, how many things there are, and how fast they have analysis. Now, by the time you get the data analytically for something, it's questionable whether you can use it, are difficult stories with a lot of people, so we can talk about it for hours what JISP is, what people who deny everything that is done in quality. Well, make it whoever wants it quality. For what's good, take off your hat. Criticize what makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68560	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68561	Okay, Mr. Minister, what is it, Balsa Bozovic is at stake, right, finished, I honestly don't know. It's probably hard for him to answer that question, but it seems to me that I've heard and I know that what he's done has ended about a dozen years, if not some more, if it's about studies, and that somehow he's managed to finish more than half of his schooling somehow in months before he was supposed to become an MP at that time, as I also don't know, but they say he's not on the list, the official record that exists, online law school students. Since he's not there if he's done it, we don't know, but it's all very little because it's a very little important man. What is important, when we talk about modernization, among other things, and in this area that we are talking about today, is good steps to achieve what we call the realization of a Serbian dream, and this dream is designed, designed precisely for those young people who are being educated today, who are going to work tomorrow, who are going to be engaged somewhere on the market in a good, successful company, which has come here thanks to investors who have recognized or may even form their own companies, which would be even better and better, so that other young people are working and creating with them. They're meant for all the investments I'm getting. For them, standards are projected to increase both when it comes to wages and everything else. And these 900 on average are just going to be something that will be a orientation, and they all try to attack better than that, to hope, and they have what, they have a real basis for expecting it to be more and better than that. This will enable us to grow, among other things, in Davos to speak to Aleksandar Vukic, to explain how Serbia manages to achieve such good results when it comes to growth, and it is about an assembly where, of course, Donald Trump will speak. You can see where the word is and how important the things that move there are. This Serbian dream should mean and will include good ways for these young people to not only work, but also have a way to figure out how they live with their families, to think about getting apartments, in which the state will help them, buy their first cars, in which the state will help, therefore, all that is in Serbia today is reality, thanks to the politics of Aleksandr Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68562	Thank you. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68563	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are very important to all legislative proposals, especially when it comes to the laws and topics concerning education. In this respect, we are interested to the end in promoting both these and existing and other laws, and therefore we will give these changes and proposals the necessary support for the vote. I would also like to express my satisfaction that the government of the Republic of Serbia has heard about what we have repeated over the past year, and this is a requirement that the ban on permanent employment be lifted first in education. I have to say, it's a very happy news and it's been positively reflected in the field. Of course, it is now necessary to approach the operationalisation of that decision and the very accumulated problems to be implemented in the most qualitative way. On the other hand, in addition to everything that seems to be from the position of the National Assembly, from the position of the Government in order to improve the system of education at the legal level, as well as in the application of these laws, what I want to potential, I think it is still missing, it is raising education to the most strategically important level. So what we're doing is serious, but we're still in the whole society, with all the state's capacities up to the top, we still have economic issues, especially macro-economics and other economic and social issues, especially economic ones, to which the greatest importance is attached. I agree that this is important, and I particularly agree that this has been important for the past few years when it was necessary to resuscitate the economics that we were exposed to. However, what needs to be learned from other countries, but also from the past, only a country, i.e. a country and society that puts education at the highest level of strategic importance ensure a long-term future and prosperity in that future. You can make certain turns in the economy and other similar branches, stop negative trends faster than you can in education. Education must be returned to that level both as regards the principle of both budgetary status and as regards the recruitment of all potential potential potentials. It doesn't have that status yet. We need to face it and we simply need all the strength to unite. When it comes to education, it should be a branch and a region that exceeds both party and other particular differences. I think we have a solid potential in both the Ministry and the Government and the Assembly itself, but in a political sense, there is one more step missing. This is now possible in principle to define in the education strategy, which has already begun to prepare. But this isn't about formal positioning, I'm talking about essentials here. As we speak loudly about these macroeconomic topics and steps, so we need to talk about education, to simply realize to the end that both the economic line of progress and the general social and demographic and cultural and all possible lines of progress are related to education. So that is the foundation of the future in both cultural and economic terms. That's where we shape generations, that's where we raise people. We're missing a few more steps here. From the position of politics, from the top of the state, from the position of all academic capacities, from the position of economic capacity, we should be louder and more determined, because you believe that we are late in this regard. We have system things working solidly, but on the education list, we need to take first place, essentially, honestly, theoretically and principledly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68564	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68565	I didn't mean to, but you offered me and this sentence of yours has been ringing in my head for a long time, which is essential. I use a different term. We often mention the phrase society based on knowledge. I wish this were strategically true and that knowledge-based society is not a phrase. Once that's agreed, we'll be a more advanced society, we'll look like a Scandinavian and a different one, but all we have to do is solve it. So, to be based on knowledge, then it has to be quality, comprehensive, fair, and not to list more epithets very much. But I share every thought you've said.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68566	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68567	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Sarcevic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, education is a pillar of our society's development and as such is truly recognized by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, it should be pointed out that the reforms you have implemented in education are assessed with the highest grades, and we can see that through Chapters 25 and 26, which are the only ones closed. I would also like to commend your great commitment to rebuilding and reconstructing school facilities. I would point out that in the last three years about 900 objects have been restored, which is a really large number. I'd also like to commend the effort made to build a network of schools. So, I'm talking about those schools that are very remote. The students living outside the cities are not forgotten, but they are allowed safe schooling. We have before us the proposals for the law on amendments and additions to the National Qualifications Framework Act. It enables the integration of the world of work and of the world of education. From this law that we passed last year, all the working bodies that were needed were formed, that's good, but it's not the only step. An equally important stage is the development of all its parts, the necessary alignment and alignment of the needs of different institutions in the system, but I believe that you are working effectively and continuously on it. The National Qualifications Framework indicates the possibility of access to education, mobility and progress and professional development. Of course, since we haven't invested enough in education in decades ago, it can't happen overnight, but it's important to keep working and efficient, which you perform and the concrete results of this great and important promotion of education will certainly make citizens feel in the coming year. There are also proposals for amendments and additions to the Law on basic education and education systems, on dual and secondary education. All these laws improve education conditions. We talked about digitizing the previous years backwards, starting with the electronic administration. It is now being implemented through education, through a unique information system of education. Then, it is important to highlight the importance of professional practices, which occur both in school and in employers through work. This is particularly important for employers because they create the possibility to determine profiles for needed jobs already during schooling students and students. Our goal is to keep as many young people in the country as possible and encourage them, those who have left, to encourage them to return. I've had the opportunity to listen to the panel you attended, which is how to keep young people in Serbia. Last year, that panel took place. You were talking about Serbia being in wars, inflation and sanctions for decades. Most people say this is one of the biggest reasons why we have young people leaving Serbia today. However, you also highlighted the fact that this is happening to countries in an environment that have not been in these conditions, such as in Bulgaria. So we need to make peace that the trend of leaving, except for these reasons, also because of some open market towards Europe, but also co-operation with the EU. We also attribute the departure of young people to the bad policy that was led in the last decade. The government of the Republic of Serbia, thank God, has taken its task seriously, is working to improve the average profit in Serbia. Every year, wages increase, how much the budget balance allows and allows, and through education laws, we adopt the possibility of constant and lifelong learning, which is very important to us. Also, markets like "little Shengen" are open, which we have almost had the opportunity to talk about and we will get to the workers we need, as you once mentioned, the biggest deficit is not in highly educated people, but in profiles like masters and plumbers, etc., which we will have a chance to fix with this "little Schengen". Finally, I know that your ministry is not competent, but also since it is about education, I have to stress how much it invests in military education, that in the previous year some 300 million dinars were invested in rebuilding the Military Academy, then about 180 million in the Military High School, and that really is a reflection of the work and effort that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is investing in the entire education of the country. The standards of cadets, students of the National Defence School, renovation of sports centres, shooting sites, terrain, etc. were also raised. We are in the election year, the result of previous years is satisfactory, we say satisfactory, because we know that we can do much better and we just need to continue this way. Citizens certainly feel better when we talk about education in all areas and in all levels of education. I am sure that we will have the opportunity to continue this policy in the next period, and what you said earlier is that we need to have a knowledge-based society and that is certainly the best way to improve all citizens. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support all proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68568	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68569	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister with Associates, the honourable MPs, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group has made clear the position of our parliamentary group and, in a reasoned manner, explained why the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposed legislation in the field of education, which is the subject of the debate of today's assembly session. From the set of proposed laws, which we are talking about today, I would like to refer specifically to the draft brand law. After ten years of application of the applicable law, it is proposed that a new law is proposed with the intention to regulate and improve the procedure in the exercise of rights and protection in the field of trade marks, and in line with the best practical experiences and positive legal solutions. The proposed law is extremely important and is from the domain of laws that protect intellectual property rights. I will remind you that only a few months ago have adopted important laws that improve legal protection and some other forms of intellectual property, such as patents, copyright and related rights and topography of semi-conductive products. Therefore, for the new Marks Act, we could say that it is in fact the continuation of good practice and the commitment of the RES and the Institute of Intellectual Property in the process of proposing legal acts which will achieve the highest degree of protection of all types of intellectual property. The proposed law prescribes a precise legal framework in the registration and trademark protection procedure which actually regulates the sign legally, which serves in transport to distinguish goods or services of one natural or legal person from the same or similar goods or services of another natural or legal person. It is extremely important that the mark as a legally protected sign, word, logo or their combination can be valid indefinitely long, of course, provided that it is properly used and maintained. In addition, it is important that the protected sign associated with the popular name, i.e. The brand can be of enormous importance to the owner. For example, legal protection of goods and services through stamps is not always required because it offers numerous benefits for its owner such as the exclusive right of the holder or monopoly to mark its goods or its services in traffic and on the territory of the country where that protection is recognised. The importance of stamps is best seen through consumer culture observation because the registered stamp is often a guarantee of quality, but also of a possible lifestyle. Therefore, there is no dilemma, the brand is a powerful commercial tool to ensure market visibility, secure and stable business, achieve good economic and overall business results. That this is how I will illustrate it by just one example to all of us well known, and this is the famous trademark “Koka Kole” that has a world reputation and recognizability, a long tradition and is part of the business policy and success of this company. In Serbia, over the past decades and years, our company and individuals have achieved the right to protect the stamps. Since the twentieth century, when the Register of Marks was established in our country, some 75,000 stamps have been registered to date, some 25 thousand of them still matter. Otherwise, the most stamps have large companies that actually have a long tradition of protection, such as Galenika, Soko Stirka, Pionira, Bambia, Jafe from Crvenka, "Merime", today "Henkel" from Kruševac and others. These companies are the owners and oldest brands registered in our country that are still important, but I also have to say that among them the oldest brand is the brand of Merima, today "Henkel" for our soaps, with a particularly famous trademark or brand for children's soap. All this unequivocally says it's an extremely important bill. The new Marks Act could be said to be modern and modern, even European, because it is in line with the many regulations that are in this area, they are current and are applied in EU member states. In addition to the necessary alignment with relevant international documents, it is extremely good that this law removes the shortcomings of a termological nature, which are stiff during the application of the applicable law. The important newspaper of this law is that a system of objections is introduced in the process of examining the registration of the stamps, in addition to the system of objections, i.e. the system of examination of the reasons for refusing to report the stamps under official duty. This proposed solution is in line with positive legislation and this is about good practical results in EU countries. It is also good that this law requires the introduction of an electronic stamp register, which integrates the modern achievements of information technologies into this extremely important area of intellectual property protection. In addition to a series of other papers that are passed by the proposed law, which will certainly have a positive effect on faster, better and more effective enforcement of the right to protect the trade mark, I believe it is extremely important that the law regulates an effective and precise procedure in the event of infringement of the right of trade mark. Also, all the proposed solutions in this law are, there is no doubt in the function of strengthening the legal certainty of the rightholder, both at the time of registration of the stamps and in cases of initiation of the procedure when that right is compromised. However, it is not necessary to lose sight of this kind of approach to this law as well as to strengthen competition and fair competition in our market. In that sense, I am convinced that a special contribution, truth indirect, to the application of this law will be the creation of new economic operators in our country. For this reason, as well as for everything I have already pointed out, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the Bill of Marks proposal, as well as any other proposed legislation in the field of education, which is the subject of today's assembly debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68570	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68571	Thank you. As you have already heard, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support all proposed legal solutions. What I want to talk about is part of some of today's discussions, as well as inspired by the recent debate on education in the languages of national minorities, organised by the Committee on Education of the Serbian Parliament, which was really important and quality. Apropo of this fundamental in education, specifically referring to education in Bosnian, as a national MP and as a councilman of this Bosniak National Council, I attended this public hearing, but out of most of the other national councils that organise or plan to organise teaching in the languages of national minorities, my regrets before that Bosniak National Council were not present. In fact, where quality was to be discussed and all of those misunderstandings that lie in the relationship between the ministry and that body which is again in front of the ministry for the implementation of the teaching process in the language of the Bosniak National Community. On the other hand, the hostages of such a relationship are again, students and their parents, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It was another special signal to me, that at that highest level, and if as a majority, we had repeatedly initiated a debate about it in that body, that it actually had no capacity, no desire to correct this way of education, and that we had no one in this council who could bring out this educated process. However, what is a problem is that it is only one of the authorities of this country and, in particular, in this case, the Ministry of Education responsible for the implementation of that teaching. The roof institution is the Ministry of Education. The ministry should not allow such a non-chalant relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia if we have a decadent and auto-destruction in one body, which is also a partner and an auxiliary body of government, and above all against the students and their parents should not allow members of national communities studying their native language according to their national community's programme to be held hostage to such a relationship. We are in a situation today that we have a good legal framework that is really high quality, but also that we have a fundamentally poor concept and extremely poor quality of that teaching, specifically when it comes to teaching in Bosnian, which leads to the rash of each time those students who decide or their parents for that kind of teaching. We've got a game here. Amongst the ministry that accuses therefore the Bosniak National Council and on the other hand the Bosniak National Council, which accuses the Ministry and some other authorities that they are guilty. Basically, students suffer, teachers suffer, parents suffer, Serbian citizens suffer. The ministry would indeed have to, because we have made sure that this furniture that is in that council, which violates all possible legal regulations and on the implementation of teaching in the Bosnian language, the ministry would have to take responsibility and introduce in some way order and in this form of education, so that students of the Bosniak nationality of textbooks for the second, sixth grade, let's say they get two or three months late, that they already come before the end of the first term that they don't have textbooks from which they teach, that they don't have a lecturer, that they don't have elementary conditions for normal work. So, we do not want to amnesty or greater here, but there is also part of the responsibility of the ministry that allowed you, in this Bosniak National Council, to deal with this kind of education in this way to students and teachers, and also to their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68572	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68573	Dear People's MPs, take a look at whose jurisdiction they are. You're talking about national councils of minorities, not my jurisdiction. There's another ministry. I cannot arbitration who will be there in the Bosniak community first, second, third, who will run your national council. You see it with you. What is the practice of the Serbian state, which is attributed to European practice, is that the parent chooses which language the child will listen to. It's something I don't allow, not Bosniak, not Bulgarian, or any minority to make their own rules. Convince the Council of Europe to change the rule, so will Serbia. So that doesn't stand. Absolutely not. In 2016, I signed a Bosnian language act as the first act I signed. On the other hand, it is only now that the procedure for the establishment of higher education institutions, the departments that will do so. So it's not my initiative again, nor should it be mine. You know where that story stands and how it goes. And don't put anything on the burden of the Ministry of Education here, because we really don't eat onion, nor do we smell onion. It's really something that you need to sit inside the Bosniak community without obstacles, whatever the councils are there and whatever it is. You can invite me to the guest house. I'm working with everyone. I'll tell you the same thing. I used to say the same thing in Pazar. So he can't because he's answering someone, he's not answering, and I'm gonna take every comment on my own account, and that's what I'm gonna take. I can only put myself on a good-will mission here, because I know you're somewhat right, but I can't take that I'm a competent ministry, I'm just part of a commitment to national councils, as you know, and textbooks are just the next link, depending again on the national council.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68574	Right on line, MP Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68575	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I agree with you that it is not the ministry that will decide who will be elected in the bodies of any national council or council, including the Bosniak National Council, but the overall education in primary schools, in secondary schools, is in the jurisdiction and under the authority of the Ministry of Education. I was specific and I was just talking about it, because we are aware that if someone, anyone, does not fulfil their obligations when it comes to this segment of education, when it does not satisfy either the quality, nor the essential, and very often not formally, then there has to be an organ, in this case it should be or should be, which is above who is the lower organ, who will put it in order. It's supposed to be the Ministry. In that segment, I see the responsibility of the ministry which simply, and I understand why, because this is very sensual, you would probably be honored to want to interfere in the national interests of another people. However, we as citizens and as our children are specifically hostages to such a relationship. As a parent, whose children attend classes in Bosnian, I have a problem explaining to my child that because it teaches classes in Bosnian, there are no textbooks, and his classmate is studying classes in Serbian. It's not the parents or the students, it's the one who had to suffer the consequences of why he didn't do it, and if he didn't do it, we have to have some mechanism for us to meet students and parents. I fully agree with you that this is the primary part of the obligations that, in the executive sense, need the Bosniak national council, or the professional bodies of that council to work, but unfortunately, what happens, as in this case, when they are incompetent, unprepared, or know not to do so, the state must find some mechanism that simply students who want to listen to teaching in that language and have the opportunity to take over, and I do not know, the temporary measure not to acquire different conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68576	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Hey, buddy, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68577	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, is not difficult to find out that the education and education system is a very complex system that requires continuous monitoring and analysis, checking through the practice of introduced newspapers, so that it is realistically in the ongoing process of upgrading and measuring the needs of time that inevitably brings new circumstances and requirements when it comes to education, when it comes to this area. For this reason, today we have a set of laws in the field of education and education, and I will refer to the draft laws on the basis of the education and education system, amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and the Law on dual education. When it comes to the roof law in the field of education of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the most significant changes relate to the area of keeping records in education and education, i.e. the establishment of a single information system for the entire education system, which will cover all participants from pre-school, primary to higher education, as well as adult education, as well as student and student standards. These amendments to the law also represent compliance with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act which entered into force in August 2019. Each educational institution, a higher education institution, i.e. an institution of student and student standards, will keep its records in electronic form on children, pupils, adults and students covered by formal education, then on parents, or other legal representatives of pupils and students, as well as on employees in education. The Ministry of Education will combine all these records within a single information system, process data, form registers, store data and protect them from abuse. So, there, in the education sector, is also the central electronic database that the ministry will run through seven registers. In order to meet the legal obligations for the protection of personal data, a unique educational number is introduced, which will be assigned to each child, adult and student, at the request of an institution, or a higher education institution in a special automated procedure, through a single information system in education. This number is introduced by preschool education and will be monitored further, i.e. its carrier through all levels and forms of education and education and formal and informal education. By means of a single educational number, access to data on each user is possible and therefore it must be adequately kept and delivered to the child and student through parents or legal representative, and to the adult or student personally. It is good that in one place the state has all the information on all persons educated in Serbia, education and education levels, education institutions, language education, achievements, awards, governance, individual education and other law-defined data. On the other hand, it is necessary to be careful with other data from the register relating to the social status and status of pupils, i.e. children of students, students, or their parents. The amendments to this law look at the problems identified in implementing an inclusive model of education, which includes children and students with special needs, i.e. with disruptions in development. This proposal prescribes that basic and secondary education and education plans must contain guidelines for adapting programmes and learning in schools for education of students with disabilities in development. That's what they're called. Special schools that, we must say, were a little off after the introduction of inclusive education. The practice, therefore, has shown that these schools should get an adequate place in the education system, that their work is advanced and modern precisely because of meeting educational needs of children with different kinds and degrees of developmental disturbances for which regular school has no experts. I would draw attention to the complexity of this issue, which is opened through different forms during the application of an inclusive, inclusive model of education. In addition, we have different categories of children with special needs, different kinds of developmental disturbances with which teaching takes place according to an individual educational plan. In addition to learning, these children need additional support from professionals who are trained to help these groups of children. That's first of all, I mean special pedagogues, special psychologists, logos, defecologists. On the other hand, teachers, teachers and teachers who have been trained to work in regular schools work with these children in inclusive education. For the subjects they teach, positive experiences and positive outcomes of inclusive education are certainly indisputable in the past period, but the need to work with these children is certainly indicated by experts who have been trained to do so. Many educators have been educated through various seminars since the introduction of the inclusion, in courses to gain additional knowledge for working with these children. However, the additional education of these teachers is not always enough. Similar problems are faced by other developed countries that have an inclusive model of education. I therefore think that, in further implementation of inclusive education, in order to provide as much adequate psychological and development support, socialisation and integration of children with development disorders, the inclusion of professionals who are professionally dealing with their problems and finding a model that is sustainable for all participants in education should be considered. So, in the best way, everyone achieves educational goals. When it comes to the Law on dual education, changes have been due to the gaps observed in the application of the law since 2017. It is necessary to highlight all the positive effects of this law, which shows that learning and working is an effective way to check theoretical and acquire operational knowledge. This opportunity includes both master and specialist education, apart from three-year and four-year education, then the possibility of conducting dual education in the field of defence and home affairs is introduced. Furthermore, amendments to the law protect eighth grade students who allow them to apply for dual educational profiles before performing the final exam. I didn't say it, and it certainly matters, I believe that the most significant newspaper is the introduction of a general professional and artistic graduation that will replace the passing of admission exams in colleges. General graduation is being introduced from school 2021/2022. the year, and professional finals for secondary schools will be introduced from 2020/2021. A year. I think this is going to be a more adequate way of assessing acquired knowledge for high school students, and it should be taken into account this and psychological dispensation of often frightened graduates, because now, instead of a college exam, they're going to be taking their degree in their schools with their comrades, so with less stress and nervousness. I believe this model will certainly be well accepted. The SPS parliamentary group will vote for a full set of education laws on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68578	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68579	Just a short time to get involved in your discussion and the comments that are correct, because in the field of inclusive education Serbia is one of the better countries in the world. Rarely anyone who wanted to notice, let alone praise not me, but it has been happening for years, that justice in the education system has led Serbia to the eighth place in the world according to the same Pisa measurements. Many countries spend a lot of money there to do that. So what happens in the central capitals happens and on the periphery, happens in smaller places, happens towards its population. So there's more criteria to what it's all about. That's where we can be very proud because we're eight in the world. That's a nice thing. It's something that says that as a nation, we're also someone who has this line of nobility, as well as when changing the ZOS when it comes to schooling children who are in trouble now on the way here. When you mentioned prom, of course, it goes its course and generation that enrolls 2021/2022. In June 2022, he will take the state's graduation, general, artistic and professional. However, when there was a press conference at the ministry last week on the 16th, we reported it in detail. Normally, immediately the media working for a particular political group had to say first that it was good news, you know, that Croats are ten years old, Slovenians and many developed countries have it. Then they had to put a bucket of junk over it right away and bring in some kind of opposition that they should have spent in their time doing prom, not giving them names here, and from the university and from this government that was once in that system, and they immediately took it to talk about how impossible it was in two years. What two years? We've been working on it for three years. That'll be five years. We created a team a long time ago, a team of experts and people from high school and high school. It was a fam -- it's not going to be the academic sector. He didn't want to start over, but by working together, we've overcome all the trouble and trouble to make it happen in a quality way, in the interest of young people. And then when you add that it will, that this team just networked with the team that we got from the IPU project, the one that has four million euros, the story goes well, and it's going well. I even had better time spent if she could have been a year earlier, so we delayed because of the better impact of high school students because they were not covered by the reform of plans and programmes. It's just that this public who cares about what happens and how he knows it's going to go well. Let's just warn them.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68580	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68581	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have said countless times that education and healthcare are the two most important pillars of every system, every society. In order for society to be successful, in order to develop and give its citizens a comfortable life, these pillars must be strong, firm, armed, flat. If they are weak, if they rock, society will be nocturnal, and eventually it can collapse. That is why we must try to have both education and education, and health care at the level that a normal democratic country like Serbia requires. What's the big deal with us? In our case, it is a big problem that some decades ago we have somehow too easily ruled out, or forgotten, education, and this has led us to a situation where our system is as it is today. What's the problem? The problem is, we kind of neglected education. It was the primary cell of every society, family, that was to prepare the children, raise them and send them to school positively. But somehow under various circumstances, our family collapsed and parents expected to send a child to school and educate him. However, a child must come to school, for at the age of seven you cannot start raising someone, education must start from the earliest days. That's what we're going to have to work on in the future, whether or not we want to, if we want to have a society that will be successful. They say: a wise man learns from everyone, in every place, and at all times. That is why we must not be ashamed of ourselves, to hesitate to learn from those who are much better and more successful than we are, and to keep what is good with us and to keep doing so. Whether we will succeed or succeed depends on us and what we do in various fields. How do we expect our children to be brought up, to be properly directed at us, when at every step, which in the printed media, which on television and other media, encounters something that is very negative, and these are various reality programs, these are a variety of negative heroes who become examples of children. Today when you ask kids what they're going to be when they grow up, most or one part of them say they're going to be dealing with drug trafficking, they're going to be starlets, they're going to be like this, they're going to be like this, but most of these kids have a positive attitude in relation to these negative personalities. We need to root that out, and we need to teach our children to love their country, to respect the flag, to respect the coat of arms, the anthem and everything that characterizes a country. How nice it is when you pass through Turkey when some holiday is theirs, rarely that houses have no prominent flag. Why? Well, because they've been taught to lead Turkey since they were little, to be proud of their homeland and to respect it at every turn. Now, what the Ministry is doing today, or all of us doing together, are just steps that we're going to have to fix. But you can't do that overnight. It's not the minister's fault, it's not our fault what happened to our education system. It's crashed back 20, maybe 30 years. Normally, no one gives us the right to complain—well, that's what they or they did. No, we came to power and we got the people's trust to solve this problem and we're wrestling with that problem and we're gonna have to finish it, whether in five years, whether in 10, whether it's this strategy by 2030, but we have to resist solving that problem. What was on the Committee today, which impressed me, was a discussion by my colleague Jokic, who suggested that those children who complete the dual education cycle and who are successful in their work can move forward. Normally, the minister said it had already been prepared and that it would be so. So the best ones, who are in their fields, will be able to advance and will be able to gain certain titles and will be able to transfer those knowledge to new generations. We have a big problem today at all levels of education system with those who are professors at colleges, with those who are teachers in schools, because they're not exactly the right personalities to pass on knowledge to generations of learning and education. Now, we have to fight that the best students, the best graduate students, who have shown in the case of their learning and who can pass on that knowledge to generations to come. There's another thing I don't want to take the blame for some of the previous ones, but it's something that happened in the early 2000s, and that's that Bologna system. We fished in Bologna, which our people say - saw a frog soaring and she raised her leg. Nemanja Sarovic: So why don't you change? Well, that's exactly what I'm saying. We hooked up to that Bologna, we destroyed a good education system, which was in German model, and we moved on to something that proved to be in practice, I'm not going to say it's wrong, but I can't even praise it. We must now slowly correct these mistakes. We'll change that. It's no problem. As well started with dual education, which in some ways inherited those schools of students in the economy and proved to be very good when children have both theoretical and practical classes during their schooling. I remember, when I graduated from school, and my best man, he went for a metal man, and when he finished school, he left right away, got a job and started doing his job. He was ready because he had one day of practice and one day of teaching. That's what we're doing today with the dual system, and I think it's very good. In order to correct the many shortcomings created in 2000, we will also have to change the governance structure of universities and universities. I used to say that a lot, but I didn't come across that, because everyone's kind of trying to hesitate and they say, "They'll say it's a bumping into the economy," etc. It can't be an incursion in the economy of universities and colleges if most of them have a founder in the governing bodies. The Founder must have a majority, so he can manage what he's set up. So what do we do now? We have a case that most people have other sides that can do whatever they want. So we had examples both at universities and at vocational schools where many who ran those organizations were embarrassing themselves were doing a lot of little to say that they were criminal and had the support of these councils. It's something we'll have to solve in the future. I hope that the Minister and the Ministry will have enough strength, and we all will help them, to bring our education system out on a path similar to him. We must not embarrass ourselves before our ancestors, we must not be ashamed of Tesla and Milanković and Pupin and many giants. We're a great country, a country of great people, mind people, and that's what we have to be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68582	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68583	I agree with Ljubish in most things, but some things don't have to be looked at that way. The autonomy of the university is a sacred cow and I would always respect it and respect it. You have other ways, tools, when something goes wrong, to solve it. We have shown in practice that in addition to the existing rules, we have removed the legal two rectors from six. So it's okay. If a man doesn't act according to the law, you send an inspection and you insist on proving your story, no one said anything that it was about shutting down autonomy or anything else. We've closed a lot of high school facilities. I'm running various disputes because people are suing me for mental pain, which is no longer in place. So, by perseverance, consistency, there's a lot to be achieved. It can be achieved by cooperating with the academic community. Besides some examples, which I don't like about someone's political option and how they think, because maybe I have another one, it doesn't stop me from working well with all the recessions and the entire CONUS. I am regularly invited to the meetings of the KONUS, to the Senates of the university, very often announce myself and do not see any personal problem of this kind, there I can say what is not directed, to deal with politics in higher education. Let me tell them there. And it's more important that I'm there. If you usurp right and you say, the founder, this, that, it can go to another extreme. The tradition of some countries is what Ljubisa says, but Serbian is not. And we can be very wise and very persistent and consistent and achieve exactly co-operation. At Bologna, I'd be criticizing a lot here, but I don't have time. But something's right. The students must be more spoiled, because if we've studied in four deadlines, now there's six of them. And the efficiency of the study. But you're applying the paradigm, so let's call JISP. The sooner he finishes, the better the grades he has, the better the private school can no longer set itself up, the employers will ask. So you can't rock the system as it suits me. So there's a lot of things that can be fixed. The moment we introduce a serious selection of residents and bring in more international foreigners for doctoral examination, they won't have a problem with doctoral hyperproduction. That, in my opinion, is the biggest problem of Bologna. 'Cause suddenly the doctoral studies made a bunch. We can introduce an institution like South Korea - a national doctorate. To see how many there are, 50 a year, all that's left is for personal use. There's a lot of stuff there. It doesn't have to be killed for a pound of meat, but many of our colleges haven't even accepted the 3-2-2 model. They went 4-1-2, etc. That's not so controversial. The analysis wasn't done. I expect that now, when we develop a strategy for higher education, we will look at such a, very human, democratic, in the interest of students and the development of higher education, what has not and what has not. There are teams working on it, along with the academic community. The scientific community could also be considered always opposition, dissatisfied. That's not it. People when they're satisfied, they don't care about any hard politics. And that just showed SNS leadership. So many people voted, saw the results. They've had enough of the madness, chaos and people who sow hate and nonsense. So we don't always have to go the hardest way to fix something and fix it. I think we can do it in these ways, as we have so far, just consistently and persistently. But if we say -- visible quality in education, it has to be visible everywhere, because, how will a good future student come if he's educated pro form and somehow easily pass through high school? Then how will the number of high school students pass to increase the number of academic citizens if we knock down the enrolment to 40%? Well, then why do we need that? So the primary school has to be serious, and that's why it's hard work, big process, first, second, fifth, sixth, they're retraining teachers. I'm going to repeat one more thesis, and I think we're going to find one original solution here in agreement and with the presidency, the prime minister, it requires more engagement, but if the Institute of Promotion is the only tool to increase the competence of teachers in primary and secondary schools, and we don't know what these results are going to be, we need to find more efficient and better ways, mentors, tutors, infusions of various other forms. That's what we're working on. So our goal is to make the system as big and healthier as possible. In high-level accreditation, quality checks, emergency checks, international reviewers, everything gives results already, believe me. We have absolutely a ministry of great support for the academic community, except for exceptions, and I don't want to count them on how many hands and fingers, but I'm talking about the mass of people, dean, rectors, and everything we're working with, because the system is being arranged and courted. Up until two years ago, you say, pick out everybody's employer advice, and they're looking over your shoulder, now they know why they need it. So we've put our trust in each other. There's going to be a new college. Project CEP 2, last time I mentioned it in parliament, implies a strong high and strong infrastructure on the student standard. Indeed, after four, five decades in all university cities, new universities will be built for both creative industries and ICT and all of these development components that we have. You don't get that loan because you're beautiful and go get it. You have to prove that the development of higher education is your intention, and we have proven it through the smart specialization strategy. Hence the CEP 2 which is very favourable, interest is 1%. It will give a new ETF building, will give a new building to the Faculty of Security, the Faculty of Geography and Biology, the art faculty, will give a new part of the Faculty of Mathematics in Belgrade, the building will be renovated. He knows that high. That's why we trust the Faculty of Mathematics, the Faculty of Technology, Construction and Architecture, Engineering, the New Sad of Technology, the construction of the lamela in Čačka, 2,500 square meters of the Technical Faculty, the construction of the PMF, 7,000 squares of Nis. We're already working on an electronic 7,000 squares. So, Philum, the Faculty of Art and Philology in Kragujevac and a number of other things. Just to count it's hard how much it's going to build and reconstruct and it's moving. The idea projects are already finished, and the main projects are already being done, so it's a story of trust, and these excess situations are not loved by anyone, believe me, not even the academic world.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68584	Right on line, MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68585	I agree with the minister that we will not slaughter the ox for steak, but we will not allow the ox to lie to us that they are lions. We want to have educated people and we need educated people, but he's not an educated man who's got a degree or who's got a lot of diplomas, he's an educated man who's got a face, who we can say is honorable, honest and honest. That's the kind of people we need. We need intellectuals, but intellectuals must be the first to love and respect their country. Here, now we've had an example, a "Group 88" or something, signed by some of their announcements, and there's a lot of our citizens who say they're intellectuals. How can you be an intellectual, spit on the justice of God your own country? It's not an intellectual. An intellectual must first respect and appreciate his country. We must create such a system where we will know what is what makes Serbia and that we all respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68586	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68587	We're thinking the same thing, but if we count "88", I was all spit when I said how much it signed against that president. When you saw who signed it, no one wanted to support it, analyzed it – the minister crazy. So more kids and pensioners than there were regular emergency professors. It was my thought because it was 1,500 in the last day, Jerkovka was collecting. It was 600, 300, and 25,000 has an academic community. Don't make me put the minority first. We know what he thinks of them and most of the citizens. That's what most citizens say in the election, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68588	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68589	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word is Mr. Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go, pal Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, I will join the statements of several previous speakers who have pointed out that you and your working teams in the past have been the most in this Parliament with proposals for education and science laws, and I can reasonably say that you have been very valuable and free to say and to work bravely to improve the system of science and education in our country, despite the fact that you have often had abusive attitudes that were not in this direction, which we have successfully mastered over the past period and have passed important laws in the fields of science and education. The National Qualifications Framework Act of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 2018, established a single and integrated national qualification framework, which covers all levels and types of qualifications, regardless of how they are acquired, through formal education, informal education or information learning, i.e. life or work experience and independent of the age in which qualifications are acquired. Here in the opening part I have prepared a procedure that was implemented earlier in terms of the recognition of diplomas acquired abroad. The first introduction of a gradual recognition of foreign school and higher education documents for employment began in 2014, when the harmonisation of the Law on Higher Education with the Law on the ratification of conventions on the recognition of qualifications in the field of higher education in the European region, i.e. the Lisbon Convention, was carried out. Although Serbia has signed the Lisbon Conventions since 2003 and strategic documents have planned its full implementation, its application has not yielded the expected results to facilitate and speed up the process of recognition of qualifications. Since the adoption of the National Qualifications Framework Act, activities have been realised in the establishment of new bodies of the NOX Council, the Qualifications Agency and 12 sectoral councils. In addition to the competence of the Qualifications Agency, procedures for the recognition of foreign higher education documents carried out by the Centre for the Recognition of Foreign School Documents as an organisational unit of the Agency have been passed. In the procedure of professional recognition, the subject shall only be considered to be filed when the party delivers all necessary documents. Although the process of recognising foreign higher education documents for employment, which is conducted by the centre, has brought a lot of improvements compared to the period when professional recognition was carried out by independent higher education institutions, there have been some problems in functioning, leading to the slowdown of the process itself. The very progress of this law is that the instrument for the recognition of these qualifications is now being passed within 60 days. The law used to be 90 days old. What are the circumstances that led to the amendment of this law, which we adopted in 2018? A number of external residents reported non-response and delay in reviewing. Some peers acted contrary to the Convention as if it were the nostration of a foreign higher education document, instead of applying the recognition principles set out in the Lisbon Convention. Also, there were problems with enlisting foreign language residents, as they are not even on the list of national council residents. The draft law proposes that the evaluation of foreign higher education documents for employment as part of the procedure carried out so far by auditors be fully implemented by the Qualifications Agency, i.e. employees of the Agency. The Agency staff will carry out the procedure by applying the principle of the Lisbon Convention and by exchanging information on foreign higher education institutions, study programmes and public documents via the European ENIC network. In exceptional cases, when a request is submitted for recognition of a foreign higher education document, for which it is not possible to obtain data from ENIC, the Agency will be able to educate a special commission composed of teachers of higher education institutions who are peers of the national accreditation body and verify quality in higher education. When it comes to the recognition of foreign higher education documents acquired at one of the first 500 universities ranked on the Shanghai List, the list of US News ratings or the Times list of world universities, a solution on professional recognition is made within eight days of receiving an orderly request, which is indeed a major improvement in the recognition of these qualifications. What I would like to say, and what might be to think in the next period, that, besides the university status on all these lists, there are also various statuses of individual colleges, even college orientations, but probably the agency that works and the body that does nostrification, or recognition of that diploma, also take into account these university statuses on the lists. In addition to that, the draft law sets out the harmonisation of the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia with the provisions of the Law on public agencies relating to the duration of the mandate, as well as the conditions for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Agency, the number of mandates, directors of the Agency, the resolution of board members or sectoral council members, etc. means a number of newspapers in this respect. The SPS-JS and Green Serbia parliamentary group will support all these draft laws on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68591	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. He's not there. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68592	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will talk today about the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Dual Education. I remember very well the moment when the current prime minister, and the current president of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, presented his exposés on this speaker. A good part of that exposé was just about education, specifically dual education. I really must express my great satisfaction because these ideas, together with Minister Mr. Sarčević, have been translated into a realistic picture of our education, I am talking about dual education and because there is indeed one adequate shift in this sphere. What's very important is that today we are already talking about a law that has been affirmed in practice, which has been brought to life, about a law that has led to the level of knowledge of students, I am talking about real knowledge significantly increasing. I will remind you, all together, and the MPs, but also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that before this law was passed, we had enormous unemployment on the one hand, and on the other hand we had open places in the economy. In these places, employers could not employ certain candidates, for reasons that they did not meet certain competences and did not have enough skills. This problem is gradually resolved by this law and how students can be adequately trained during that period of time. I'm saying that because we all remember those pictures of school workshops that stayed in some of the past days. What's very important, and it's about that, is that these school workshops are not just a typical example of these past times, but teachers and staff, who worked in these classrooms and in those workshops, couldn't go any further. Nor could they follow technological, civilizational progress, nor could they convey adequate knowledge to the students. What matters most is that it's time behind us. With the modern, reform laws that we have voted here in the Assembly, and together with you worked and promoted, we have come to the situation that a large number of school workshops have been reconstructed, we have come to the conclusion that a large number of machines have been purchased, that there has been a modernisation of this process, so education. We have come to the conclusion that there has been a knowledge check, not just a student, but a teacher who conducts practices and conveys knowledge. We have come to the conclusion that you, Mr. Minister, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, have opened a large number of information cabinets and it is for the pride of both this government and the state of Serbia. What's very important is that this very fact that I'm talking about is about the seriousness of a country and the seriousness of education. Also, more importantly, today we are discussing amendments to this law for two reasons. The first reason is that in the law itself from the moment of adoption, to this day, you recognize certain provisions that are poorly linguistic, procedural, or whatever it is you're trying to correct. Another reason, which is, I would say even more important, which is to adapt this law to our needs, that is to adapt to the provisions of this law to the needs of our people, our mentality, our specificities, and everything that is ours, and what needs to be brought into line. I have spoken to a number of employers who are actively involved in this dual education process. I can tell you that their experiences are really positive. What they stress is the most significant and optimal for the manufacturing process of the companies in which they work, is the fact that they can influence study programs, that they can influence the skills, which children, students will learn in schools and thus shape, professionally design these children, or future workers in these companies. It's a crucial thing to bear this law. In parallel with that, the students also get a lot. They're getting competitiveness on the labour market. It's something in the modern world that means everything. We've got it, and we're just going to get it with further improvement, not just this legislative framework, but the whole educational process in general. What I'm still trying to say is that the Dual Education Act has already given its effects. These effects are also visible in schools that started with the introduction of modern, affirmative study programs. Also, they are already visible in schools themselves in such a way that teachers and teachers want to perfect themselves. Not only do they want to, but they have to if they want to follow this modern educational process. What is even more important is that schools have direct communication with employers, who can directly influence changing, changing study profiles, adopting new ones, profiling future personnel. As the core and as the essence of this whole story, I will say that the most students, i.e. future people, are workers in certain companies, because not only have become competitive in the labour market, but they have received significant skills and competences that they care about, not only in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in this regard. As the conclusion of this story, I must stress the greatest importance of this law, which is to correct and improve the relevance of education. Essentially, this law, as well as all those educational laws, modern and reform laws that we have brought into this house, such as the Law on Higher Education, competences, etc. In addition to this Dual Education Act, we have led to the improvement of this relevance of education. In this way, we have brought the education system into line with one side, and on the other hand, the unquestionable needs of the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68593	Thank you, Doctor. The word is Natasa Mihajlović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68594	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, ministers with associates, I will first refer to the proposed amendments and additions to the National Qualifications Framework Act. Then I'm going to say something briefly about a set of amendments and additions to the education law. When we passed the National Qualifications Framework Act last year, we set up a legal system, a framework in which we actually determined what levels, what types of qualifications are, etc. Since the adoption of this law, all the activities prescribed by the law have been realised, which means that new bodies and the Council, Agency, 12 sectoral councils, etc. have been established. Amendments and additions, particularly important, have been proposed appropriate solutions to overcome all those problems that have been seen since the application of this law. I think it's very good that with these changes and additions it hasn't waited long, which speaks of seriousness in the very application of this law, especially in the light of all the effects this law has. These changes make it easier to exercise the right to work for those who have acquired higher education abroad. I believe that the proposed changes will speed up this process, as the deadline is reduced from 90 days to 60 days, as I believe ministers will no longer have a problem with reviewers who are working against the Convention and who have acted, addressing issues about higher education acquired abroad, as if it were a diploma nostriification. I believe things should be looked at and seen as they are, not worse than that. I would therefore like to point out that, in fact, most of the reviewers have given reviews within and in accordance with the Convention, but simply because of the uniformity in the treatment of all interested persons, we need to do everything we can to ensure the smooth functioning of this public service. The National Qualifications Framework finally makes a difference between what we know, what we can do, what we really do, what we get from it to the competent institutions and what we recognize from it. The National Qualifications Framework can especially help to be one of the key tools for the qualifications of people working in the gray zone to finally be recognized and translated into regular flows. There is a need for co-operation of the education and labour markets sector, because on the one hand we have unemployment, and on the other hand we have a labour market that does not have a sufficient number of high-quality labour. Therefore, additional training and the establishment of a national qualification framework is necessary, it is essential to overcome this problem and therefore action is necessary in both sectors and in the education sector and in the labour market sector. Since it is important that the national qualification framework has common principles with the European Qualifications Framework, so that the European Qualifications Framework could be used as an instrument for comparing qualifications acquired in Serbia, it was necessary first to link the national qualification framework with the European framework. The proposed amendments highlight, i.e. bring additional descriptors into line with the European Qualifications Framework, and in fact facilitates the process of connecting the two qualifications frameworks, which is very important. We, and in the next period as state and society, must ensure effective investment in the education and training system at all levels, to correct educational outcomes, i.e. to make it clear what anyone knows and can do. Serbia's commitment is to increase the openness and relevance of education systems and better adapt the outcome of learning to labour market needs, which is achieved precisely through the national qualification framework. What does that mean in practice? This means that we need to strengthen people through the acquisition of new skills in order to adapt to new conditions and possible changes in professions, because it can actually reduce unemployment and increase employment productivity. When it comes to amendments to the Law on Education, Elementary and Secondary Education, we agree that there are no more important issues in one country and in one society than education. Education depends on the economy and culture, and health, and the overall future and progress of one society. If, therefore, we understand education as the most important issue in every civilised and well-organised country, then we should respect the fact that science is changing, that the world is changing dizzyly every day in front of our eyes and that it is necessary that the laws in the field of education follow what is happening. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of the system of education and training of concepts of the development of the entire system are also adapted to the needs observed in the practices and conditions in which it can be implemented. In practice, as we all know, it has clearly shown that these new trends and solutions aimed at general development, improving and transforming education in line with the needs of society, respecting the traditional values of our education system, as well as monitoring the development of the European system of education and education of developed countries. As you said earlier, Minister, during the discussion, early and basic education must be strong, because it is actually the cornerstone of the entire education system. The mission is to educate all its citizens in quality quality, to basically describe students from all over the country so that they can learn to connect what they learn in school and what information is with proactive problem solving and dealing with everything that awaits them in life. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia in the voting day will support a set of all proposed changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68595	Thank you, Mrs. Vacic Mihailovic. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, who knows which way we're discussing, I think this is the eighth or ninth time we've discussed education, and every time you convince us that the laws are good, that they will make progress for the citizens of Serbia, that our children will be smarter, better able to manage, be more educated, do better jobs, but unfortunately the reality is denying you. I've been thinking a little bit, here since 2004, when we were first elected MP, it's hard to remember how many ministers went through the National Assembly and how many times this unfortunate education has been reformed. All of Serbia's problems, in fact, began with "5. October" when you started doing what you are dictated by the EU. All the evils in Serbia have been coming from the EU for 20 years, from this famous bologna, which was the beginning of the solar system of our education, through private universities, etc., all of these are things that continue to this day. Eight or nine times, as I said, is only being debated in this educational conference. When you compare the speeches of the ruling coalition MPs, they are practically every time, regardless of what it was about, which changes and additions, they could use the same speech. They talk about how wonderful it is, how wonderful it is, how very good it is and how it will be even better, but when you look at it with reality, with life in Serbia, with education in Serbia has absolutely nothing to do with it. I'm glad you admitted today that the 2015 law was wrong, that it led to a lot of problems. But it can't justify you, because you're here responsible for the sins of your entire coalition for the past eight years that this regime is in power. What you're saying didn't work out in 2015 is confirmation that we were right back then, as we're right today, but it takes a little time for you to see it. What does it tell us that for the eighth or ninth time in this conference we're discussing education? Does it say that you know very well what you want and that you know very well how to do it or does it tell us something else? If you had known what you wanted from the beginning, you would have probably first passed the law that Serbia needs, and you have assured us from the first time that this is and that this is the best possible solution. That's what you told us the other, and the third, and the fourth, and the fifth, here's what you're telling us this time. The assembly is at an end, so you probably won't have time to convince the citizens of Serbia and the MPs for another time, but I am quite sure that these laws will be the subject of amending, supplementing or passing new laws very quickly. The problem is the other one. This is about what you're trying to fix incorrigibly. If we look at the education in Serbia 20 years ago and what our children were, were they more educated, I am sure that at that time education was much better and that people who are 40, 50, 60, that schools we went to, high school, colleges were much better and more serious than today. When you have the strength to say, first to yourself and then to your colleagues in the government, that Serbia has no friends in Europe and when we start working, not what the EU agrees with, but what is good for the Serbian people, then we will have some chance of a better one. The other thing is, it's not just a matter of law, Mr. Minister, it's also a matter of law enforcement. Look, we had a president of the Republic with a falsified college degree and we proved that a man, for example, was for five or six exams in Strasbourg, as a member of a congregation delegation at a time when he allegedly passed those exams. What happened? Nothing. How did you react to your support for the ruling coalition in which you are ministers? Shut up. And day and day you are not prepared to condemn what Tomislav Nikolic did, but you are also not wondering what kind of message you're sending to society, what impact that had on education, what impact that had on society as a whole. So when someone with a falsified degree can be elected president of the Republic, instead of giving it up publicly, instead of being despised in society, he's also a day-to-day official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you invented some non-existent function, you pay him a villa of seven, eight, I don't know how many thousands of euros a month and he's privileged. What did that lead to? Well, it led to people sitting in the government with plagiarized PhDs, having ministers sitting in the government forging college diplomas, and it's clear to the whole of Serbia, it's not about one thing, it's about more of them. And you, Mr. Minister, keep your mouth shut again. Do you have a court of law on that? What's that gonna lead to? How many people in this hall are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with forged university diplomas and no one is responding? What does this teach children in Serbia? They are taught that there is no responsibility, that the most corrupt are prospering, that the system is such that instead of quality coming to the surface, those who are the best flee abroad. Now, that is the essence of our failure, and it will not change with these amendments and the amendments to the law, nor will it, unfortunately, change with several amendments that we, as an SRS parliamentary group, can endure. We need to fundamentally change the system, build institutions over and over again, but first of all we need you to realize that you have no friends in the EU. No rules apply to Serbia. Where are your friends, Mr. Minister, after Montenegro passed a shameful law that they called, absurda works, a law of freedom of religion? Where are your European friends? Which one of them raised his voice? Which one of them said it was scary, that it shouldn't be done? Nobody. And this shows that Serbia has absolutely no reputation in the West, and you're always talking about your friends, talking about how respected you are, talking about how you're outsmarting their ministers and representatives at meetings – hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, For whom do we and these laws prepare children? Are we preparing them for modern white slavery in Europe, are we preparing them to work in Germany and Austria or to fix something in Serbia? Unfortunately, Minister, you know as well as I do that these laws will not improve the situation in the Republic of Serbia, and that is both yours and my defeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68597	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68598	If I looked back, I'd go back more than 20 years if I talked about better quality education in the country where you and I were born. So I'm older than you and your colleagues here. There are some of my peers here, but I'm saying that I'm sure in 2000 she wasn't exactly happily chosen. Maybe he's a younger man and he doesn't remember, but he's doing the truth. We've been saying that 20, 30 years has never been a priority, I'm not even saying it is now, but we're really trying to be. I don't know what's going to happen either, I don't know if I'm going to do this any further, it's a lot of unknown equations for me, but what's for sure, for the sake of showing up in parliament, so this ministry is a huge ministry, covering from preschool to technological development. Only if you list the components that make it, you'll see how many different laws have to be passed. If these laws bring about improvement and apply properly, I guess it's for the sake of the children of Serbia, for no one else's sake, at least that's my motive for what I'm doing. These are preschool, primary, secondary, dual in secondary, dual in high, high, student standard, student standard, science and research, Science Fund, qualification framework, these are all special laws, intellectual property that is already here in several laws, which belongs to us in a broader sense. At first, I made it very clear why part of the system law is changing, which is because of the new law on the protection of personal data, so because I can't influence someone who's an independent body, although I think there was a solution to the existing law or through a sublegal act. If explicitly after three months it was said that there was no possibility through the sublaw, it came to the Assembly. It's simpler, in my opinion, easier to find, because I don't see what would change there. Our experts have seen that the goal is not to reveal the identity of any participant in the process, nor students, nor students, but you have enough data to edit and run system policy. That's why we came in. When we came in for that, the Dual Education Act proved effective, whatever any of you thought of him. There's a lot of new profiles. There's already a new eight. National MP Milorad Mircic throws it away. Say what you want, but I'm denying you. It'll be next year, but the employers are pleased. As the state used to be the only employer, so it could be satisfied with the interests and you had that the school was with the factory, so all the machines, I worked in Rakovica for a hundred years, you have that IMR, IMT gave the machines “Radoja Dakiæ” and there was practice as well as in the factory. We had this model, but the state was the only employer. This is nothing new or unusual for our system, we're just adapting to it. And I'm sorry that, well, I've been eight times, I had a reason, I wasn't in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68599	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word has Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68600	Mr. Minister, you said you were significantly older than me, and after that you say, you worked in Rakovica for a hundred years. I didn't think you were that old, but good. The other thing, Mr. Minister, you claim to be satisfied workers and that the law is good. The effects of the Dual Education Act will only be seen for many years. The other problem is what you say – there is a large ministry. Now, maybe you didn't know that, it's been a practice in Serbia in the last ten years that ministers from calling to calling are changing ministries. Perhaps you for the next call to seek someone less, to make it easier for you, as you say – there are a lot of these organizational parts and while you have visited everything, Mr. Minister, passes the mandate. But next time you're looking for someone smaller, more compact, and I'm sure the results, Mr. Minister, will be better. Now, third and most importantly, your convictions have lagged, Mr. Minister. Your estimating court about the fact that we had a president of the Republic of Serbia with a falsified diploma and we have ministers with counterfeit diplomats, with fake PhDs, not one or more of them, we also have here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who knows how many MPs who haven't graduated in a regular manner, who bought diplomas, forged. You may not be able to solve this problem, you may not be able to replace them, but what you can and what your duty as minister is to clearly condemn it, to give your judgment of value and say – I disgust it, I am building on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68601	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68602	Two remarks. I'm not the Minister of General Practice and I don't interfere with any other resources except education. You saw that. None of my statements have ever gone past that. I don't even pretend to know how to change a wheel on a car, and I know I can't do anything around the house. There's someone who learned better than me. I've been doing this for over 40 years, so I think I do. I'm not the candidate. I didn't call myself this either, as you know. I didn't even compete anywhere. I've been called somewhere. Always because of something I did or knew, but what you said in the end is true. I have nothing to hide. I said a million times, you didn't follow me. Maybe I wasn't interesting. But I have repeatedly stated, in all the affairs I absolutely do not support, but to get a degree of quality in the only possible way, by learning. I've told young people a thousand times. There's no such thing as a delivery chip that someone's gonna install for you and you don't have to study. So, I'm a supporter of hard learning, quality education. You need to know next. I've been going back 30, 40 years from where all the stories started since 1989. I did all this research, I know absolutely well, but there's a jurisdiction of the court. It means jurisdiction of the court. That's what every citizen can fold a tab and go in a row. If I was just going to do it, then I'd have to be some kind of protector. I don't know what. There's a lot of other people who get paid to do it and they can fold a tabak. So the same thing when other MPs call me, let's say one teacher says, "Ministers, you have clean space, there's a TV show, now you can act." So what am I supposed to do? Back in 1989, when some private education started, when the law still didn't recognize it with us. Well, you have until 2005, 2006 that the university was responsible for the recognition of diploma. There wasn't even a ministry back then. Then at some point it was an obligation when it was accredited, so the document was nostrified, sent to the ministry a copy. No one's ever done that either. I'm sorry, I'm working. I'm sending an inspection now everywhere - state, private. We've closed a lot. He's going his own story and we're not hiding anything. On the chapter – inspection, on the website of the Ministry of Education you have all described. And everything I've said in public there you'll find. Unlike others, I have nothing to hide. I've said it a thousand times. It's going to be a healthy system when the weeds move away, which is institutions that are easy to give diplomas and have no weight. This is where employers' advice is introduced, where graduations are introduced and everything that has never been in Serbia, which is an external evaluation.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68603	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sarovic, do you want a replica? Even though you agreed with the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68604	Mr. Marinkovic, one thing that someone's declaratively going to stand for, and what they're going to do in practice, that's completely different. We've heard a lot of nice words not only from this minister, but from many others, but they're one word, and the other is practice. You, Mr. Minister, say you've clearly condemned the counterfeiting of diplomas and that you're against it, but you say it like that, you know I'm basically against it, but at the same time you say I can't do it as a minister just to do research on who forged the diploma, who plagiarized master's or doctoral work. I'm not asking you to. You as a minister have to deal with those who fake, who plagiarize and do it at the highest state level. You know, I didn't even say you're in charge of Serbia now, so you're chasing anyone who faked a degree, so maybe he's working in some kiosk or in Rakovica or anywhere else. But if it is located in a significant state function, if the power of decision is concentrated in those people's hands, if these people need to decide about the citizens of Serbia, and they're unequivocal because they can't be professional forgeries and plagiarists, then it's your duty to deal with them. To get the strength to tell my colleagues in the plural, it's not an individual case, to your colleagues who falsified college diplomas, who plagiarized master's and doctoral papers to publicly tell them what you have on them. Well, maybe you should say and it would be a moral act on your part, if you said I couldn't change the situation, I can't deal with them, but I don't want to be with them as well, and that's why I'm resigning. And that's an option, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68605	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68606	I don't want to go back to who was in power and who had the chance to do it all over the years. If there are fake diplomas, and I know somewhere else in the '90s that it's been explored for Kolubara and for many large systems still in socialism and there's been a lot of things. Everyone has the right to launch an initiative, you know. And what happens now that I've launched the initiative to have bank guarantees on who founded the facility, and tomorrow it goes to waste? Who's gonna pay for those students next? Will the state take them? Well, he won't, he's got quotas, he's got budget quotas. Will the other private take them? Well, he can't, he took the money. And what no one has asked me before since 1992 on the laws here, ordinary banking guarantees, that there's so much money in stock when it deals with this business, that it can cover students' times, times the tuition money. You know how many things there are that I'm slowly discovering. I have no intention of correcting the wrong 30 or 40-year-old Drina. I also said in the papers, if you went like that and blindly applied the Law to high school, maybe 50,000 diplomas would be symptomatic. Well, which would give me the world's organization to grant me the rights to undo people who have families and everything else. Individual cases of anyone who has a problem with something, may be elected as a citizen of Serbia, as I am a citizen, I am not a competent minister, because the minister cannot hire, cannot question. He's got a point of view, and since I took office, look what's done. You have an accreditation agency, so no one can come and start, and you know it could. Years back where anyone wanted it. You know, with who? With frames that worked in 15 places. Here, now it's electronic tracking, you can't apply to college, so it has the same teachers that already have five. There, all that can't be done. So, at least I'll leave behind clean work so no one has to fix anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68607	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. We're moving on with our work. We've completed a circle of replicas. Thank you, Mr. Sarovic, for your understanding. The word has a professor, Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68608	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister Sarčević and his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us to discuss a set of laws from the education and education of one of the pillars of our country. Right at the beginning, Mr. Minister Sarčević, that we are in the clear, you came as Minister of Education of Science and Technological Development in one chaos, I don't suppose I should explain what that means, an ambition of education and science. Let me just say that we didn't have the goal of raising general definitions at the time. That we had made a transition and destroyed education and education. You chased the best fit from educational institutions, and one of those staffs is you, sir, I have the courage to say that, ministers who went and formed private schools and achieved world results. That's one thing. Secondly, anyone who thinks that reform can end in a year, two or three, has strayed into education, if it is in education or if it is in the benches of MPs, then, excuse me, then we have strayed as MPs. Reform is a long-term process, it is a permanent process. Let me say, however, the basic year 2000, especially when the former government came to power, so-called. DOS was the main destruction of education and education. And by one, to get kicked out of all the educated educational institutions and all the factors of education and education, just an education. Since then, gentlemen, the teachers you listen to and the teachers don't have any educations in either, let's say, no state or other institutions. Why? Because all the factors, in my opinion, come on, some kind of my record, we destroyed 15 factors. And in particular, we destroyed those personnel in schools who were in charge of education and education, which are school educators. Instead, Soroš from the west introduced psychologists. Gentlemen, I'm speaking to you, professors. You know that a teacher at school deals with the teaching aspect of students, and psychologists, they come to 500 students one, or a thousand. The former government introduced every school and least psychologist, so she declared, sorry, abnormal all students, all parents, all workers and all residents in the country. It's that chaos that's been introduced. Find me, please, in the last 15 years, from 1990 to 2015 of any school pedagogogogogogog, that he knew how to make his work plan and realize it. Find him for me, please. Those who were expelled from school. You are, sir, I must say, Minister, because it is the opposition, regardless of who is here and who is not, accusing you not only of her but also of certain teachers, not all of them, most of them, in certain colleges, you have gone into chaos. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for rounding up, after 20 years, the education system. Right, Mr. Minister? Right, gentlemen? Educational workers? What does that mean? We know how many elementary schools we have, preschools. We didn't know the number of teachers in elementary schools when Mr. Minister of State came. Right, Mr. Minister? Not in elementary school, not in high school, not in college. We found 20 extra teachers in one school. They didn't teach one class. It was chaos. And who are you accusing today? Especially the ones that aren't here today. They come to accuse you of those who were then acting as ministers and ministerial assistants. They're picking up today. If they have a little bit of morality, and they don't, at least let them keep quiet. But they don't, because I see what they're doing these days. The key question, the modernisation of our country, which we have in some ways not only propagated but planned, and we are conducting it, is the modernisation of education and education. And that's exactly what you introduced. And don't forget, you've brought the education back a little bit into the education system. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We suffered until you came to the law of elementary and high school, to call it the Law on Education and Education, as we now call it. He used to be just about education, because they kicked the kids out of school. I recommend a strategy, let's call it a training and education strategy. He's raised before, and then he's educated, every pedagogue knows that. And secondly, in order not to possibly overcome some things in the strategy, i.e. neglecting, we have not defined the general objective of education, even in the country, for 25 years. General objective. What is the goal of the education system? In order to implement the general objectives of individual teaching courses in schools or study groups in colleges on the basis of the general objective. I'm not going any further. You've courted the system, you know the number of personnel, you have the tools now to choose the directors, the highest quality frame. You know who the directors were? Well, you know. The streets, they brought them from the street, with no high-tech equipment. Not to say that he's at the Ministry of Education, I don't know if he's still, I'm going to check that out, the man with the middle-moving, the job on the projects, six years before Minister Sarčević's arrival. You want me, gentlemen, to tell you the names of these people. There were 90% of them. You inherited, Mr. Minister, the seduction where very suspicious people sat. And it's hard for you to change that. A lot of things the Bureau's running now. And he was a disaster. They all were. So, you've also started seductions. It's a big deal. You've got the system in place and we're going to realize it now. It is true that we must move at the level of the so-called. internal reforms. And she started it. That, please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know. It's the hardest part of the work in modernization, and it's the student-teacher relationship and teacher-teacher relationship and student-teacher relationship. We've ignored the doctactics, we've totally kicked the teaching profession out of higher education education institutions. We don't do that there. We've got a college professor, God forbid, they've never heard of a methodical, especially a pedagogical class. I'm sorry to be emotional, because I won't let you, while I'm in these benches, throw yourself at you, as individuals are trying these days over some TV N1 and some time, otherwise, you know who's already funding it for 15 years, and the list of "Today." So, regardless of whether you or anyone, especially you, who felt the hand of the authority that destroyed education and education. Let's move on. We need to redefine the curricula and the programs and you started it. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today someone was saying, well, the minister is doing it. That I don't go into detail. Follow discipline and education and you'll see. Further - redefine student obligations relative to teaching and teacher. And you started it, you're doing very well, I've seen it. And redefine the teacher's obligations. There's a part of the resistance, because they have obligations, but their salaries are higher and they'll be bigger every year, because they're bigger. Let's move on. Putting him back where he belongs, where those who call him expelled him, is 15-20 years old. Back there. So I wouldn't go wide. Key figures for the organisation of the whole job - the ministry and you. You've made that organization extraordinary. When it comes to dual education, or practice in vocational schools, then there is a Chamber of Commerce that is extremely well involved. Whoever wants to follow that, and thank you for doing it. Many here have criticized you. Where are they now that we have introduced the Law on Dual Education? Not to say again, Mr. Orlic, the doctor, explained this extremely well in the opening part. Where are these people now? You know how many we have now - seven thousand students. Seven thousand students in dual education. Do you know how many programs we have? Not to speak, the minister is a humble man, so he won't say what we did, but it's our duty, which we follow and who we do in education and education, to say what we are and what we're not. Let's move on. Why are we changing the Law on the Foundations of the Breeding System? You've made a good point, as if we weren't listening. I agree with you. First, because of the harmonisation of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System with the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, this primarily refers to records in education and education, in particular provisions which determine the single information system of education, etc. JISP, unique educational number. You said, not just now, and at last session, when you agreed here, I'm surprised certain MPs didn't listen to it. It's being monitored from preschool to high school, kept under control. Let's move on. And these other laws, some members are being processed, where in practice they have proved to be exceeded, but the essence of things remains the same. This is very important to say. We're going to dual education. It came into force exactly in 2017, and its application in 2019 and 2020, because certain sublaws and certain preparations that the minister was talking about today, and we did not do so well, some of them seemed to be listening, especially when it comes to the Chamber of Commerce and Employers. In this school year 72 vocational schools are included in the dynamics of dual education, which is realised in one or more educational profiles. We've got 35 of them. So in this school year, for the first time, 2,600 students in the first grade. Is it small? You can see that we have entered into the realization and reform of this part, the dual education. A total of over 7,000 students in all classes. Is that little of it, gentlemen? Dear parents, I'm speaking to you, this is accurate data and we're sending our children to dual education. It's being realized in 104 schools, 37 educational profiles, now there are two fewer, not to explain why. But it's important that we have 400 companies that are accredited or in the accreditation process. That's the answer to those who suspect, let's say, companies and companies. No doubt, so far we have, the minister knows better than I do, 400 companies that are accredited and 900 licensed instructors. Is it small, for starters? Furthermore, the key role in implementation is the Ministry and, I must say, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, which has proved to be extremely good, in my opinion, and I believe, Mr. Minister, that you have that opinion as far as I see from my monitoring. Now, let me say it at the end. It is true, Mr. Minister, that the key teacher is number one, regardless of whether it is a teacher in preschool, elementary, high school or university. It is true that in 2000, we committed the death of the teaching staff. What does that mean? We've driven out the best teaching chamber, and we've brought in what we've got today. I'll just mention one, since I have to leave time for others. You will be called by a professor these days and months, you will see who is involved, on "N1" television, subscription there and in the magazine, or in the newspaper "Time", as the weekly is also called. It's called Professor Ognjen Radonjic, with humiliation, for God's sake, that you are a teacher of God, and that is the most beautiful calling that becomes in the education system. You'll see who it's about. I must say, Mr. Minister, that the citizens might see who it's about. Professor Ognjen Radonjic daily tells lies about the President of the Republic, you and the MPs. According to Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy students, pedagogical traits are one of the worst professors. As you know, we teachers are estimating ourselves. He got the worst pedagogical grades. His data on students' passability in the economics exam is kept as a military secret, according to students. His pass is very low, below 15%, and the minimum for Bologna is 33%. They couldn't even find out about the dean or the rector. He was the only one who tried the Information Commissioner, and he didn't make it. The students call him - the torture professor. I'll tell you why I brought this up. This professor, called "torture", is conducting terror against students. I quote: “When you answer too much, he says – you learned by heart, ” finished the quote. When it comes to the question – the gene of economic thought, never one student passed the exam, because he always invents something that is not there, finished quote of students. For a whole group of 18 questions there is no literature at all, and the students are told – get along. Luka Sakic, a former student, says this: "When Professor Radonjic has a pathological need for a student," a quote concluded. That's why, gentlemen, it's called "the torture professor". In the end, I only recommend to him that, for starters, he masteres three lessons from pedagogy. First – the character of teachers and the main traits of teachers, the relationship of students – professor and docrimology as a science of grading. For starters, that's it. Mr. Minister, these individuals are criticizing you, not most of the academic community. The academic community is working extremely well with you and the Ministry, and these individuals will always be as they are, such as Professor Radonjic. In the end, I'm surprised at Professor Rabbit who he once took as an assistant. That professor called me, my little one. He says I told the National Assembly session that Professor Dubravka Stojanovic should be sent to prison and lied. I was quoting here what the teacher said, was that we should give up Kosovo, and I just referred to the members of the law from 305 to 321, so she could see. Normally to end up in prison for that, it stands in our Penal Code and I added it to the Prince Milosh and nothing else. Well, let him see. That's not what I said. That's what she said. Instead of being such a joke to her, is she... The organisation at the university is called a "political organisation", I say. "One out of five million," a small part of the professor stands. On the wagon, one more time, Mr. Minister, you have full support. One part of the professor that I don't further get them, these of 88, just to get two of them out of them. You're absolutely right, of so many thousands of academic communities, of these 88 and of those 900 there's a small number of teachers, they're not teachers, I'll tell you right away, by their moral characteristics and scientific characteristics. I'm just gonna call one piece. The teacher was Latina Perovic. Do you know who Latina Perovic is? In the 1970s, she broke Yugoslavia and broke Serbia. That's what he's doing today. I don't have a problem, Mr. Minister, to tell them the truth. Next, Stjepan Mesic. I was a representative in the Croatian Parliament when he said, quote: "Lords of Representatives", I quote him, "I have carried out my task in the presidency of the SFRY", point. The second sentence: “Yugoslavia is no more, ” concluded the quote. The same man, in 1990, in Gospić, before the election, at a pre-election rally where 10,000 Croats were, part really Ustasha, said, quote: "When Croatia becomes a state, all Serbs stand under one umbrella," 10,000 Croats were umbrellas. That's the man. Any wonder what he's supporting these days? There are other things I have to say, these extremes. Milan Kucan. Well, on the 14th. I called the Congress of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia for youth and what they broke Yugoslavia. They biography their... That's what this is about. I have to do this for the citizens who remember well to clear up. Let's move on, Azem Vlassi. What can I tell you? Since that session of CK Serbia, you know everything. A Serbia-Yugoslavian wrecker. Shebo Rastoder, historian in Podgorica, one of the biggest Serbs in the former Yugoslavia, my fellow historian. Let's move on, Nikola Samardzic, my colleague, it's anti-Serb. Pelcovan from the feeling of patriotism. Here's who I'm communicating with. I don't have a problem telling him that. His father was one of the greatest historians and the greatest patriot. Let's move on, just part of the professor and these politicians. Sonja Biserko, so she advocated, people, the bombing of Yugoslavia. Remember Sonja Pearl? Let's move on - David Phillip. I'll talk about him tomorrow, because he belongs to culture, especially tomorrow, but let me just say that for 28 years he's been breaking Serbia and working against Serbs. I truly feel sorry for this people for having such a representative, a wonderful people to whom he belongs. Let's move on – Natasa Micic. So, what do you say, citizens? I don't want to say anything. Cedomir Jovanovic. Well, he's handing the president over to us on time for fraud, not to say so. Nenad Chanak. Do you know what he was doing? Father von Habzburg has proposed to the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The memorandum was sent to one representative for the former Yugoslavia. Do you know what it said in the memo? AP Vojvodina, republic, if not state. There he is and he says it yesterday and so on. Let's just have two more. I don't want to talk to these reporters because they're on the agenda tomorrow, but that's where Snow White Congradin was. It's the bottom of the bottom, I'm sorry, from journalism. She's constantly, so you don't get me wrong, Professor Vojislav Seselj calls himself a war criminal, and you all know the verdict isn't like that. That doesn't even have a "n" from journalists. I'll end up with two or three quotes now. Since it was about patriotism, let me say, because these days on TV screens, they're always talking about Nikola Tesla, what Nikola Tesla wasn't. Gentlemen, science forgives no one, no Serbs, no Croats, no MPs, no citizens. Nikola Tesla and, on June 1st and 2nd, 1892, told students of the Great School on the second day of his visit to Belgrade, quote: "I, as you can see and hear, remained a Serb and across the sea, because I am investigating. It should be the same for you and for you to raise the glory of Serbia in the world with your knowledge and work." That's not what the press said these days, but I'm gonna get rid of all those misinformation with this quote. Next time, Nikola Tesla said: "I am equally proud of my Serbian background and Croatian homeland." The letter was answered on May 25, 1936, by Dr. Macek. Then Maček corresponds to him, I quote - the great son of the Serbian people, purposely this of the Serbian and the homeland of Croatia. Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Minister, I am pleased that you have so much experience in education and education and that you stand firmly on the ground and that, I am sure, in the next education and education strategy that you are preparing, Mr. Minister, in five years, will bring education and education to the place where our predecessors expelled it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68609	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Minister Mladen Sarcevic called for the word. Here you go, Mr. Charcévich.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68610	Just one comment for the public and you, Professor. Those people who don't like what I'm doing, they're all on the other side. Of course, but I don't pay attention to them, nor do they do anything meaningful to me in life, nor do I hold to their opinion. Anyone who runs this resort can't know everything, I've said it many times. And I didn't know the right thing about preschool, the right to tell you, so I taught him. I did science when I was young, I got three papers published, I assisted in college, but I'm not in high school for a long time and that part. My specialty was pre-university high school, high school, and I might be the best there is. But this is all I didn't know, I was learning in a sense for the first two years, and believe me, now that I'm sitting with people from all those circles, at least I'm even in that knowledge. But I think I'm in a lot more equal. The willingness to learn and listen to others is an opportunity that I don't need to know all that. My job is to know a good organization, to know what strategic directions are, to know how to make big teams from all the areas I need to know and finance. I think I have these three components, and I think that's enough to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68611	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word has Tatjana Macura. She's not present. Professor Aleksandra Tomic answered the words. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68612	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I would like to open a debate today based on these draft laws we are discussing today, which is something that I think we don't talk about in public enough, and we need to tell the citizens of Serbia one truth, or the future that is waiting for us. It's so-called. The fourth industrial revolution. These are all the changes that will be, which the world has never had before, or all that is based on so-called. The third industrial revolution, the fourth gives a basis for that. And these laws that are now like the amendment and addition proposal in fact show that this is one process that we are in and that, with the very introduction of the Law on Dual Education and the very law that we have formed the National Qualifications Framework Agency, which we now have the opportunity to in some way bring together all those diplomas that are in developed countries with diplomats that exist here in Serbia and give young people the opportunity to work and learn and learn and work, are actually one of the mechanisms that we are going to meet that fourth industrial revolution. What exactly is the fourth industrial revolution? It is the networking of all new technologies and innovations and translation, in fact, the growth and development of a single economy based on foreign and domestic real investment, the transition to an economy based on growth and development, based on knowledge. In fact, why did the Republic of Serbia go into the whole process of introducing dual education, but not only in high schools, but also in colleges now? It is precisely because those who accept innovation, who quickly adapt to changes in the labour market, that is, the very functioning of new technologies, is the only one capable of absorbing new employees, young people who will simply now have the opportunity to educate themselves on new programmes, and we are going to meet on the basis of all research for about 10 to 15 years to have 75% of new jobs that will appear on the labour market as the need of a country. Therefore, in fact, the recognition of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Alexander Vukic is that only five years ago he managed to launch this whole procedure through a system of education and education, to implement new laws relating to dual education compared to fiscal consolidation and economic reforms, which is very difficult. So it's very difficult when you don't have money in your budget, when you're carrying out your savings, when you're carrying out what's called a transformation of a single economy, to parallelly introduce a dual education system, because new factories are just opening up, and you're just having a conversation with foreign and domestic investors that these new interests should take place in these factories. So we had a parallel transformation of the economy, fiscal consolidation and the introduction of dual education in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which in fact opened up the possibility for young people to school on a regular basis, based on new programmes, and a dual system, that is, with the work of the 80-20 model, whether you are going to study and work on both the principle and on which models. We are now talking about 7,000 new school personnel, or children who have graduated from this high school, in 104 schools, with 37 profiles that they have completed. Now we're talking about that it's become normal for young people to identify themselves and we now have 2,600 enrolled in the first year, school 2019/20. The year, which recognized in fact that what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose prime minister was Mr. Vukic since 2014, has produced results and something that really has prosperity in the future. So we're talking about kids in the future, believe me, they're using new technologies today, they're reading about it, they know what artificial intelligence is, what vehicles are without drivers, what hybrid vehicles are, what is the new system of functioning 3D printing, what is networking when it comes to new technologies and innovations and what is said about so-called. The use of IT technology in "claud", means certain databases used by all of the world's IT technology companies. So something kids today recognize, and perhaps older ones somewhere can't recognize as the possibility of a future in their professions. What do we have today? We have on one side really mechanisms with which young people today can or go in the way they have so far, to regularly school. All the new programs that open colleges go to meet the use of new technologies. So you saw that all high schools specifically opened for the best students to compete, to enter directions for the IT sector. On the other hand, you have the possibility that through dual education you have parallel education and work with that education, you have even certain benefits that young people can earn while they're at school, so they earn some minimum salaries and therefore have security for new jobs that with a finished high school will have in companies that today, as we have had the opportunity to see, have abnormally large salaries compared to those they used to have in companies that used old technologies. I will remind you that by 2014, we had 338 companies that were in bankruptcy and that workers received 10,000 dinars, so-called in restructuring, which were on the state register. Until then, we had big problems that all Serbian citizens paid employees who worked in bankruptcy and had monthly salaries of 10,000 dinars. There were 100,000 workers like that. That cost Serbia's budget, all Serbian citizens, 750m euros. In four years, it was three billion euros, which you could simply invest in the growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, in the opening of new factories and, of course, it was a very difficult process that should really enable the work and functioning of the economy with certain growth and development, and automatically teach children and train teachers to teach these programmes. Serbia has opened up the possibility for young people to return to Serbia in a completely transparent and affirmative manner and to just amend and supplement this law that we are talking about, that the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia should make changes, which is to allow us to nostrificate a diploma within a record period of 60 days, that there will be no need for certain reviewers to deal with this problem. We today have 98 diplomas from abroad, from prestigious universities that are on the Shanghai list up to 500 seats, waiting for the nostrification of diplomas in Serbia. So we have people who want to go back to Serbia, who finished Oxford, Cambridge, Stanford University, whose diploma is simply not recognised in Serbia because certain reviewers have not done their job. It is these amendments and additions to this law that we will allow 98 young people, who have completed the most prestigious universities in the world, to unilaterally nostrify these diplomas in Serbia and to start their lives here, with nostricated diplomats in companies that we have so far fully open to foreign investors, who deal with the most modern technologies, but will also have the opportunity to open up the start of an app company, in which the finance ministry has made a proposal, and we have adopted, that for the next three years if it deals with the IT sector they will not have to pay taxes and contributions in full, they will already have a subsidy from the state. Believe me, the results, otherwise at the conference held, which Prime Minister Ana Brnabic had on Friday, which was called "Startuj Legal", said NAD, that we have twice as many open, newly opened companies by 2020, since 2014, rather than closed. This was not the case in 2014 or 2015, it was just the opposite. We've had twice as many shut-in firms as we've had in the open. Therefore, the results of this whole process of introduction and dual education and the formation of an agency that really needs to carry out a national qualification framework, i.e. the part relating to compliance with European standards, relating to the nostrification of diploma, show that it gives very good results. Those results will get better and better. For this reason, the ministry's work should indeed be commended in this direction, which, as a single process, always causes great resistance. You whenever you have some changes in society, whether it's education, economics, any area in society, you always have resistance, you always have those who are holding back these processes, because they're afraid of uncertainty, they're afraid of some places of work, they just don't want to change their way of functioning and work in which they've kind of gotten very well-coordinated, and we have teachers today who invite students to certain verbal violence, you have professors of universities who are able to threaten and die on social networks and you have people who are able to say that they need to violently chase certain people on the streets. They're simply against any change in society. They can't talk about growth and development and the progress of society because they simply don't realize that these are unconstitutional processes. The fourth industrial revolution is an unstoppable process in the world, and so is ours. Only those who master new knowledge and who know how to adapt to new tendencies have a chance to survive and simply lead their country into prosperity. Those who do not want to adapt to innovation and to acquire new knowledge will simply remain at the edge of their history and their ignorance, and will always behave in this way as those who now act on social networks show up, as the first bullyes, and not as teachers who need to teach children something good. So, thanks to Mr. Vukic, and I think that all of them and who may not support his policy, precisely because he recognized these processes that await us in the future, introduced this system of functioning, learning and working, working and learning, and that this is the only possibility in which we can progress. Believe me, somewhere as a state, they give us developed EU countries as one of the ways they recognize us, that we have succeeded as a state, that we really do a lot of things, we turn public opinion to accept this way of thinking. For us it is of great importance, and for our young people even more. And the results that they are now coming back, that competition in highly developed Western countries such as Germany will be growing, that the price of working in Serbia will fall, and that the price of working in Serbia will rise precisely because of this way of functioning, increasing growth and development and the inflow of foreign direct investment, but also the transition to knowledge-based investment is only safe and that is what the national investment plan will show by 2025 and all those politicians who simply do not want to recognise all that, show that they are not up to the task of coming to the elections in the future and are not up to the task of being some factor in this country, because Serbian citizens can only return to something that was 10, 20 years ago and bring them back to one general poverty. The Serbian Progressive Party wants Serbia's future, wants a future where young people will have a chance to work, to create their future here, and not somewhere outside Serbia, and that is why we will support these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68613	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The Minister, Mr Mladen Sarcevic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68614	If I may modestly supplement what Alexandra said. I think we can draw some lines. In one small period, we brought in four independent bodies. An independent accreditation body is doing a great job. So he can't go through anything that has no basis anymore. All the others who follow the work of it, it raised our price, because we came at some point to get our diplomas audited. If we hadn't done that, we'd be wondering where the story goes. There was the most resistance. He's got it today. Speaking of the Innovation Labour Fund, it's already a great body, independent. The state of Serbia gives much more money than the EU has given and some foreign corporations have given. So the innovation and start-ups of companies that have accelerated their progress are significantly higher. Also, this same situation is happening with the Science Fund, which we once again passed through the Science Fund Act. It has already been the first call for young researchers, PROMIS, and has been automatically raised from sixm euros to ninem euros. There were so many good projects, it couldn't be chosen. The next call these days is for artificial intelligence. We've already published it. Minimum can be 24, because it's 200,000 grand, so it can be more than that, and that's one branch we're developing very intensely. I've already announced excellent cooperation with Chinese partners. When we talk about a body called NOK, the National Qualifications Agency, it's proven to be a very useful body, from the recognition of diplomas, from lifelong learning, from sectoral councils, from all that we're doing right now. We're now in little Shengen speeding up to confess to each other's diplomas. It's very important for the development of the economy in that place. The European framework is just one hat, many agree with it, both the Arab Emirates and Turkey and many other countries. We will be working with Chinese partners these days to directly recognise Serbia-Kina's diploma, which is a big deal. One great education, first of all, as far as Piz is concerned, if no one believes. Great universities and not only European hats, the world becomes in this sense a global village and the faster it follows, reacts and makes more original solutions, the faster it will advance economically. It will enable its young people to make faster progress. I think Serbia is doing this very clearly. We signed the tech park a new year ago, the second phase, there hasn't been a chair there in months. So 700 engineers, 400 companies. The chat starts as the fourth techno park, the new now moves into the equipment, and Nis almost ends this year. So it's one big job and it's not enough. It is very good that it is not enough and that it requires more investment and that it is a great opportunity for young people. With Chinese partners, we will soon have the first center for the promotion of science, the training centre for these forms, precisely for modern education. Well, that's not good either, you know. You have critics who now manipulate what children and robots and drones program and what we bring down to lower levels and what they're smart about. You see, sixes when they take three days to make a miracle out of it. Then he probably wants the kids back on that green board, the sponges and the chalk. If that's all they can wish for, it's good for them to love them, you know. For the first time, Serbia has taken a serious step with the developed part of Europe and the world. What we're talking about may be in several countries of Scandinavia and Western Europe. In general, the region has long been cut off in this regard, and that's something that happens well. So, really what you were talking about, about four zero revolutions, about new master programs that we do together, colleges, FON and ETF, building new colleges in that area, is something that will be seen very quickly, and it's already visible. What's very important, we introduced the subject three years ago -- entrepreneurship back in fifth grade, and that results. The Đačka cooperatives, already all the cities and regions have and I told Požarevac who is now mentoring the other environments, for Sremska Mitrovica, and in March there will be a great event similar to that which was in December for dual education related to the student association where guests from Britain, Germany and Croatia will come, who have been doing it excellently and no one is disgusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68615	Thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68616	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers and guests, the SDP gives and attaches to education and we have defined it in our party by a strategic document called "The State of Education". We insist that the Republic of Serbia be a state of education, a state of modern science, and therefore we have supported your ministry practically in every law, because we think that you are doing very well in very important laws. I've talked here several times about dual education. It's something I hope will be a cornerstone of reform that your Ministry is implementing, but also other laws. However, it is very important that we do a little work and that our school is motivated and that our children get knowledge and say some tools that they will be able to apply in everyday life and in everyday work. Indeed, several years after the work of PISA tests have shown that our students have accumulated knowledge. Apparently, they don't understand it enough and hardly apply it. This is something that we now insist on, because we Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic, we insist that education be free, that it be available to everyone and on the other hand to be modern, to follow modern times and that teachers themselves, teachers, teachers, teachers be very, to say, innovative, to be motivated, to be interesting and to give, to practically know what the main task in the learning process is, and it seems to me that the most difficult link is to separate significantly from the irrelevant. That's what we who come from natural sciences know best. Knowing the crucial things that we use daily is the basis and we must insist on it. As for that, you've already done a lot of things and I see today you've announced that you're going to do a lot of work in that field to make teaching more interesting, to understand kids what they're learning, and that they can eventually get a culture of use of what they've learned. I read a wonderful sentence today from Socrates, though, in English, which says – education is the sorting of the flame, not the filling a vessel. Education is burning the flames of knowledge, burning the flames of curiosity. It's not filling young people with information. It's something that one Socrates knew in his time and something that is extremely current today and that we want to underline to you as social Democrats who really care about the education system. On the other hand, today we are confirming an extremely significant contract, but not to forget, what is crucial, is what this government has done, it has stopped and abolished the ban on permanent employment in education, which has raised the possibility for young people to get a job, to compete with each other and to practically give birth to good lecturers and people who really know and have this thread for quality teachers. I say, today we also confirm the Marrakech Treaty which is extremely significant and which requires that States Parties must provide that with their laws, that persons who are blind or weak in sight or who have disabilities of this type can convert copyrights, that is to say, to get on the spot of this law copyright that they will be able to translate into Bray's alphabet textbooks and other books that they want. I think that's extremely significant. The Social Democratic Party and we pay great attention to the impaired persons and blind persons and persons with any handicap, and we insist on finding a model and providing them with every support in the process of education. So in voting day, we will support your proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68617	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a set of laws in the field of education. We must be aware that education is sacred to all sanctity, because through education the consciousness of our young generations is formed, thus the whole nation and the whole nation. Unfortunately, we today have a situation that never before did our young generations receive a weaker, more unquality education, as is the case now. This is the main culprit of our European path, and if it is a comfort to us it is not just a situation with us, it is a situation in both EU countries and countries in our environment. Some of the things that are happening today in Serbian education have been proclaimed even in Nazi times, where the leaders of the Reich said that the slaves of the Reich should not be given any serious education, for them it is quite enough to know the letters so that they can read, so that they can remember certain orders and nothing more. What did we come up with today? We have come into a situation where we are finally making a belief, from once quite solid education we are making something we do not know about, and we are not sure what it is and what it will lead us to. This reminds me of the situation where the Papuas traded gold for glass beads or for some worthless jewelry. We will be the first generation in the history of civilization to have less knowledge at its end than at its beginning. It's a sad fact, I wish it wasn't like that, to fool myself, but it all points to it. Serious countries, the most serious countries that hold to science already realize and put the main accent on it and see that the main development and the main accent of science are no longer on the material and physical sphere, but on the metaphysical sphere, and that's something that might give hope, so maybe someone, us or someone else, will take those rates. If we go back about 20 years ago, we'll see that our education is now in a worse position, I'm not going to say materially, I have to admit it in a better position, but generally from the aspect of education, science and acquired knowledge in a worse position than it was 20 years ago, and even in a worse position than it was 50 years ago. I just don't want to say that it's Minister Sarcevic's fault, although he is carrying part of the blame, this is one trend that has been going on since 2000 and with unstoppable steps leads to something that I was talking about here at the beginning. What is being taught today in our schools? In our schools we learn some of the most basic things, children learn how to write si-vi, how to do video presentations and things like that, and those fundamental sciences, such as physics, chemistry, from which all human progress and civilization progress have been made, it doesn't matter, it's old-time things, it's overcome. Students today learn that there is nothing to know, nothing to know, in the sense that nothing should be kept in their heads, everything can be found on Google, and the rest is just enough to click, to have a connection with the Internet and your knowledge is there in your pocket or there next to you. However, if our young generations do not possess such knowledge and are not instilled in them these basic knowledge, then that leads to another problem. An empty head is very suitable to put whatever you want into it and therefore there is a huge possibility and therefore there are great manipulations for our young people. That's general, that's not our problem, unfortunately, that's the problem of modern civilization, which is what we'll see. The main resource of today's consumer society is illiterate, because they are only suggested, they don't have to know much, but it's important that they spend, consumer society is important to produce new goods, and it's all going suddenly, and what's going to happen in the end, as I said, we'll see. So today we have a large number of educated ignorants, despite the fact that there are formal diplomas and formal knowledge. You know, it's been told here, I don't mean to say, there's been a lot of words about buying a diploma, etc., I can buy diplomas. It was also at that time and in those happier times communists, people came to a diploma with some shortcuts, diplomas can be bought, but knowledge cannot be bought. My colleague Mircic is correcting me, happier time after education, I'm not going to say, I'm an anti-Communist, right now, by conviction, but she's happier time for our education. Our youngsters are not given real orientations, those valuable orientators who will create real people from them and who will create something out of them that people can't manipulate with them. As a result, we have the fact that some were both excellent students and excellent students, but that did not bring them happiness, did not even bring them material benefits. This is precisely because they were manipulated in this way, they were not given the foundations, spiritual, family, social orientators, on the basis of which they could behave according to the situation. However, here's the situation we have, but I'm going to say one more thing about textbooks, that's what my colleague Alexander Seselj was talking about. I have insisted for two years at every regular session of this Assembly, when the Rules of Procedure permits, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks. Today's textbooks are truly disastrous and we in the SRS do not advocate that one publishing house has a monopoly, but it must pay particular attention first of all when it comes to textbooks that treat national culture and national history. Today, the textbooks are written almost everyone, betraying each and every one of them. No wonder there's a lot, the instructions are colleagues examples where there are catastrophic textbooks, here's one latest example, there's a lot of pearls, and I could talk about it for an hour at least, just those examples that insult both dignity and morality. We have the latest example in one textbook and for the fourth class from the knowledge of nature and society where the state of Croatia extends both in the territory of both today's Montenegro and Albania, meaning it is about the old Serbian state of Rasko, where practically the state of Croatia takes over part of the forest, including Belgrade and others. So it goes through the Drina and over the Drina. It is simply because the publishing of textbooks is done by Croatian companies, owners of companies that control the publishing of textbooks are in Croatia. I don't want to accuse them, they're doing their job, it's their job, but it's the one who let something like this happen on behalf of the Serbian state. We have a situation to throw well-known scribes out of the booklet, it's been done in Montenegro for a long time, they've also kicked Copic and Kocic out, etc. As it goes, it's only a matter of days before they kick out His and when they do, then it'll be a job from their point of view done. So, Mr. Minister, you need to take care of these things. It's not just about, I say, this material component, but education has, above all, this spiritual component and that spiritual meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68619	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68620	Comrade Nicole, you were in the O.R. when I gave an answer to Ambassador Alexander. Here, I'll repeat, we were able to do what was allowed, which is that we formed a special unit for national programmes and plans. This unit is located in the Institute for Promotion, Education and Education, and it is made up of historians, geographers, language professors, literature and culture and they have made new curricula and programs relating to the national block of these interests. I held a press conference last week on January 16th in the ministry building where they were journalists, so people could see that we had that unit, but the fundamental question was that this was the state of the old programs, however, and then someone chose. Why did the school director let such a book be chosen? There's a hundred filters, they're not the last ones who have no idea what they're doing. This corruption, what's going on here, is just a question of how we're supposed to deal with it. You know, how do you suddenly change the whole publisher, and you don't have an analysis of why you changed? Is there a better result of learning from this or that? So other things are at stake. You can sell any company to anyone and our people, businessmen, buy various companies anywhere, but with this unit we have made a step forward because for children in all the parts of the world where they live, except in the country you yourself said at this point, the same unit exists parallelly in Republika Srpska, in Banja Luka, and here we co-operate, also for diaspora and for all countries where we can throw and where our Serbian children can get this learning package. Publishers in Serbia will be offered to issue in the original everything we think is nationally necessary to issue or otherwise there is a tool in the Law on textbooks that says – the minister is making the last decision whether to put the textbook on the textbook's catalog. If he's not in the catalog, he can't be in distribution. It doesn't say anything for what reason I can't do it. So, while something is coming up later and changing, at the full capacity of the national teaching unit in these cases, they must be represented by whoever the publisher is. That's what we were talking about. I introduced it to the public last week. It was January 16th. I will agree with you 100% that the devaluation of learning especially fundamental sciences has gone into denial and that the demeaning of children and everything you say is going to be... Well, it's not a process of learning torture. It should be mostly pleasure, self-awareness of the result and achievement of the pedagogue category. So, as the educators show, it's past time to whine – the salary is constantly low, so I'm not motivated. It's only been increased five times by three and a half years, and it'll be increased. So this motivation follows. Payment classes go, extra motivation. But we've done a lot, not just in the strategy, but last year, you know, we've raised new profiles of high school for natural sciences. Now we're going to give a lot more departments and children's interest there are for both medical professions and engineering, etc., and they can't be created unless we have good curricula and natural science programs. The other thing, that nobody was opening up here and it wasn't unknown, was waiting for me, which is the initial education of teachers. Do you know how many are enrolled in the teaching course of mathematics at Belgrade and Novosad University? One candidate at a time. To physics, none. I've had meetings with the rectors, and we'll change that. Won't it be mathematical? Don't they recognize him? We'll see that teaching becomes pedagogical and has a master program that will be able to master it, end the needs of primary school. We need to work something out in the short term. Whatever we're talking about, if there's no one to pass on, even that, but alternative personnel carry on, then the problem is even bigger. You know, you've been working in education for a long time so that when something breaks, you can't get it back by decree. So they're not even ready for parents at that point. It's coming back dosed. That's what we do. We're preparing them, here's three years of getting ready and two more for graduation. There's no discount at prom. He says, "It will be bad, but it will be bad for all." The splendor of reality took a long time. You've got teachers all fives and a half of a four and they're all great and a couple of very good ones. Where are the good ones and the good ones? Where are you good enough after fifth grade? The distribution of the score is that as soon as you collect four, five, out of skill, from the reign of your ambition, they jump. Take down the criteria for mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology, and you're automatically very good at not knowing anything. That's what we made ourselves. It's that ambience in which we live and deceive ourselves. There's no knowledge. There's no greater need for high school. That's why it stopped at 22%. So from there at the university when you ask what future students are coming to, so come on a little text, give them a big letter, anything from elementary literacy. You'll see a disaster. It's no better social science, it's a bug. Now, we return it in a special way, not just through plans and programs, teacher training and graduation, but we do these centers that I was talking about. Let's say for Goc, the mathematical PMF Kragujevac we're going to be doing a center for the popularization of mathematics, as it used to be in the '80s I was a young professor. That's what we did in Belgrade. That's how it started. They were big centers, and as the MP behind you says, I don't lemble in a country that was in communism, but the communists skillfully used patriarchal training and what was in their heritage, so it lasted while it lasted. In the meantime, when you talk to a developed European world. No one had the events we had in a series of bad events. Now it's time to stand behind it and say it doesn't lead anywhere. It's not going anywhere, and the whole story has to be sharpened, dosed, and seriously independent grades, and that's the graduation project.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68621	The word is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68622	Here's the thing about these textbooks and, above all, history textbooks. Although what you're talking about, I can agree with the good part of what you've been up to, but here's one particular objection to you, Mr. Minister. About a month ago, about two days ago, perhaps the three most European Council adopted a recommendation or I don't know what it's called, about history textbooks, to write a common history textbook for European peoples. In that sense, a conference was held in Paris where you participated. I read your statement somewhere where you're okay with it, where you said we'd benefit from it, because it's going to be a part of writing that textbook and some experts historically from our country. I don't agree with you here. I think it will be completely counterproductive when it comes to the state of Serbia. You don't expect from EU countries, those who bombed us, that they're really going to show aggression on the state of Serbia and much more in that textbook. We have, unfortunately, one of the few people who has negative experience with it, let's call our friends from the west, so it has to be completely cautious. Let them write their own history for themselves. We have our own history which, while illiteracy was enormous, carried from knee to knee, through folk songs, guslas and so on, you have to be very, very careful.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68623	You're looking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68624	It's not a replica, it's a supplement. It wasn't you or the press who interpreted me well. It's about the next one. First, let me say my opinion is better to be here and follow up so they don't put any heads or anything else on us, but it means, not to be, so they can write without you. I said we met immediately with the Russians, Belarus, Azerbaijan with us, even Turkey, because we have an interest in following it. The meeting was and we were so determined to follow. I've already told examples of how I've honored them that they're looking at modern history already at events, first, second war in 19 years alone. We specifically all said and that was our position there – we will participate if the scientific method is used if it is not written by politics. If you use a scientific method, here's an example, let's just say Srebrenica. As soon as the British archives are opened, it falls into the water the whole story of a criminal association, undertaken by others. If you're not there, no one will mention Skelane or anything else on this side. So it's our position to participate if we use scientific methods. In every scientific method, we have nothing to fear. We should be afraid if they impose a political method on us. It was about missing or the journalist didn't pass it on, but it was a complete interpretation that we were going to participate. I wanted to leave first and then we agreed on a state level to leave, to see what it was about. Nothing has been signed yet, nor will we, nor do we have funds in the budget for such a story, and so far that's all that's been discussed. Again, let me tell you with the serious countries our friends are not going to go into unless we use a scientific method.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68625	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68626	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. It ended for a full year that MPs of the opposition's work gathered around Dragan Gilas in his alliance did not come to their work, for which they continue to receive their salaries neatly and thus showed their relationship to this subject, to the National Assembly, but also to the citizens who chose them. Madam Chairman, this session today, where we are discussing proposals for legislation in the field of education, flows into an atmosphere where we have open threats to the President of the Republic, we have calls for murder. The atmosphere of hate and violence that comes from those who once declared themselves the elite of this society. Here I think of the already-known tweet Vesne Pesic in which it is said – come on, let's see what you're going to do when it's announced to a life president until the Twitters have a carefree tweet about it. There's Putin, that's exactly what he's doing, if Brnabićka resigns, you know, a lifelong Wolf is about to be prepared. To be clear, the whole tweet is as pointless as most of her tweets so far, but this is important, she says -- well, there's no boycott just a tube in her head. So, this is an open invitation to a murder coming from Vesna Pesic and just when you think there is no further, that there is no worse than this, but tomorrow we had an even more monstrous tweet and a new invitation to the murder of the president of the Republic, this time from the former senior official of the Vrachar municipality from the period when DS destroyed this Belgrade municipality and was known for numerous corruption affairs. So it is Slavko Tatic, and this is what Tatic says, who is also the father of the chairman of the municipal board of DS in Vračar, so the current president of the municipal board, who has been a official in this Belgrade municipality for years, and participated in the destruction of Vračar municipality. Here's what Slavko Tatic says. Only dead Wolfs are good Wolfs. Now I don't know, the chairman and the minister, if this is about collective hysteria in the Alliance for Serbia or whether it's about the bizarre competition with them. The competition of who will write a more monstrous tweet, who hates Vukic more than they do and who is more willing to insult Alexander Vukic and his family in the worst possible way. The only good thing about this whole story is that Serbian citizens have the opportunity to see that this is not about any elite, that this is not about any elite of our society, but it's about people who are willing in the most primitive way possible, the poorest way, the most monstrous way to call for the murder of the President of the Republic just because they are powerless to politically defeat it. Of course they can't beat him, because they have no politics, no program, no idea. Even more ridiculous, and more hypocritical than them are attempts by some to defend what is indefensible, to defend and relocate such miserable calls for the murder of the President of the Republic. Here we have a statement by that expert Antonijevic from the Open Society Fund, and he says Vesni Pesic, who, with this much ferocity, on the threshold of the 80th birthday, sums up Serbian political reality in this way, as a sociologist should give recognition and not lead the criminal procedure, so he would give recognition for this tweet Vesna Pesic, not lead the criminal procedure, but rather give recognition to Vesni Pesic. I don't know what he's up to, and I don't know how he's not ashamed to say something like this? We have an even worse example of the relativisation of this tweet, Vesna Pesic, as a prime example of the impregnance in Serbian journalism. It is, the public or part of the public knows, a journalist named Snezana Congradin, I think that colleagues from one parliamentary group know well who it is, and also counterpart Atlagic talked about it a little while ago, otherwise a journalist who is known for anti-Serbian definition and anti-Serbian action years ago, and now watch her. In an attempt to defend Vesna Pesic, she even accuses the Republic of Serbia of genocide. I'm going to quote one of her paragraphs, which came out of today's "Today's Day": "Political garner that inspired war crimes genocide, ethnic cleansing, is currently being examined by tweet Vesna Pesic". Repeat, genocide. I don't know what kind of genocide this is? What genocide is it? Does she agree with Marinika Tepic who accuses the Republic of Serbia of genocide in Srebrenica? Or might it agree with Albin Kurti, who accuses the Republic of Serbia of genocide in Kosovo and Metohija? Or might he agree with that fake Metropolitan Miras Dedeic who accuses the Republic of Serbia of genocide in Montenegro? Or does he agree with all three of them? Or does it agree with all of them that Serbia is genocide and that it has genocide intentions? That's why it turns out we're right when we say that by hitting Alexander Vukic, they actually hit the Republic of Serbia. The chairman, I am pleased at the very end that I have read the news that the prosecution has finally launched investigative actions or steps to investigate in this case of these monstrous tweets and I hope that it will have courage, but also responsibility, that this matter is done to the end, because I think that a reaction by all the competent authorities is necessary, but also a reaction and a clear condemnation of all other social entities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68627	Thank you. The word is Alexander Stevanović. The word is Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68628	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear citizens, at first, I will not mention those names quoted by Markovic, but, fellow Markovic, all those names will remain in the people's future as a parameter and an example of how long the hatred of certain people can open up the vulnerabilities of expression and insults of the president and political opponents. So they will remain marked in Serbia's modern history as a bad example of how a man should not behave and should not insult another and show hatred for another who does the right thing. We're discussing a set of education laws today. As my colleague, Laketic, I remembered here when the current President Vukic, and then the candidate for prime minister, here in his programme, gave a large part of the programme and dedicated the strategy and vision of education and roads in which to go. Also, the government and Prime Minister Ana in 2016 gave the same significant part of the programme that relates to education. Why? We all know here that we are sitting and in general, every common man knows that education is one crucial thing for a country, because every resident, every country, goes from pre-school, primary and secondary education through the education system of that state, and a small part through that academic one. Discussing these laws is always important, education laws are always in interaction with the history, the past of a people, with the present, the economic development and visions of the future. What has already been said, and I am pleased as a professor that Minister Sarcevic insisted that in these four years we have so many laws passed on to education, from basic, pre-school, secondary, academic, meaning everything is about education and education, then we have laws relating to science, to innovation. In fact, he, as a minister, has set up and continued a strategy that is necessary in legislation to bring it right, and the results themselves, although there are objections to the adoption of education laws here, cannot be seen immediately over a year and two, but it takes always one period for one generation, at least four years, to pass through one system and good results, and what is not good, to be seen after four, five, six years. That is why these changes that we are often considering are happening, because education is alive, moving, technological processes are progressing, new innovations are coming in, all of which are linked to new profiles that need to deal with business and new programmes, new competences that need to be done in education. I always welcome the amendments to any law, and at this point we are talking about the Law on Education, because these changes lead to an improvement in the perception of parts that can be improved and brought into line with new developments, not just technologies, which I said, but also visions, with some new perspective on the future. No criticism should be given to amending the law as one fellow MP mentioned, in the sense that as soon as changes are made, these laws are not good. No, not only education, any law, life imposes solutions that could not have been foreseen in lawmaking, although it was passed by the largest doctrine that was in force at that time. I'd like to say a few things here. First about the roof law, which we are discussing, which is the Law on the founding of an education and education system. My colleagues have already said, but I will point out, in addition to the need to pass this law, there has been a consensus with the new Data Protection Act, it is significant, as the minister mentioned, and the establishment of an effective system, a unique information system of education, where, from the beginning of schooling, individuals have been given their unique number by entering school. The second thing, i.e. the third thing, is that, nevertheless, here, there are members who are more specific about the issue of education and training of migrant students, students who do not show, or do not know the language in which education and training work is performed, thus improving the availability and quality of education and education for all students. The fourth thing is that this law allows for greater availability of quality education and education for all children with disabilities and developmental disorders, so that new guidelines are drawn up in this way that improve this area and a group of these endangered, that is, groups of people, children, and later adults with developmental and disability disorders. So, this roof law on the foundations of the education and education system solves, with many other little things, these areas that I mentioned. The next law we discussed was the addition of the Law on secondary education and education. You see, this law also has some newspapers and promotions. For example, it is prescribed that practical teaching and professional practice are realised at school, in the employer or combined, in part at school and in part with the employer. This is a newspaper, because the practical teaching in the Dual Education Act is resolved. However, in secondary schools it remained unarranged, so here it states that in the realization of the employer, in those secondary schools, practical teaching will take place in the range of 20% of the total volume of the class. It also sign a contract with the employer. Then, a percentage of the classes of practical teaching and professional practice that can be realised in the employer is prescribed, making a clear difference compared to the percentage of the study course through work, which is realised in dual education. So that's where that part of the work of professional high schools improves. It should be mentioned that the same thing has been taken into account here for students with developmental and disability disorders, because adequate relief is being made when they pass their general degree, as if they were passing a professional and artistic graduation, to respect their handicap and disability. So, this is foreseen by the members of the law from 4th to 6th. We also have a problem to address here, that the Law on secondary education and education allows candidates to have the right to adopt a professional mother or general graduation after completed three years of secondary vocational education if they have mastered the programme of competence required under the graduation programme, which gives the candidates the right to move forward after two years and to perfect themselves. Only in the end would I mention a few newspapers that showed up. They said that the Law on dual education and on dual academic assault, but the reality will deny all the negativity and misrepresentation of that, which are more politically colored than the reality, where Article 6 of this Law allows, none of the colleagues has mentioned, that students have been learning through work since six o'clock in the morning. It is early, but there are certain professions, where the profession of bakers, which is nevertheless tied, that part of the practice is tied up, and this profile of expertise is related for some time which is early. Then, in Article 7, we have to prescribe a procedure to include the employer in dual education, where he should file a report and now the plan. When applying, he needs a profile, a number of students and other items to explain. He submits this to the ministry, pardon the Chamber of Commerce no later than 30 November of the previous year, and the Chamber of Commerce submits to the ministry by 14 February of next year. So, already in February, there is a certain number that will be admitted to school in the autumn with this professional profile of dual education, and it is practically a reserved place for those students to be enrolled. Of course, if they change their minds, they can, and those places can be filled with those who didn't want to make the first choice. In Article 11, we have provisions on impunity. It's a useful thing here to respect the ministry, because the Chamber of Commerce has made these certificates from the directors difficult to obtain, they don't have time, they don't know the candidates, and especially because in these foreign factories we have a lot of those who are foreign citizens, so they give up for one simple, technical, administrative reason in filing applications. Practically, in art. 18th and 19th, we have provisions that prescribe a deadline within which the employer informs the Chamber of Commerce of the termination of the contract. So, all the facts have been done to individual members by what has been seen to improve the current law so far. Finally, let's say, another newspaper, where that law meant that the employer should bear the costs of transporting students to a place where learning is realized, that it proved in practice that a lot of local self-government had taken over those costs for the transport of students, while the employers were obliged to pay these costs again, so that, if otherwise provided and covered that cost, they were released. In the end, it was given the opportunity to hire an employer as someone who was not employed by them as an instructor in education. So if he's carrying out the accreditation, he can do the job even though he's not busy with it. In this way they create a possibility if the instructor left that employer, that he could hire another one so that the part of the teaching could be performed. I've listed only a few newspapers that aren't exactly cosmetics, but, in my opinion, they're vital that this dual education, since I quoted it last, could liven up. Of course, in voting day, I will support all these laws as very advanced.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68629	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the agenda we're discussing, there are a lot of points that previous colleagues have not spoken of, and the minister has gone beyond that. Let's say, a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the fields of education, science and technology. You can see here that the Republic of Serbia is expressing its desire to co-operate in the fields of science, education and technology with the other side of Northern Macedonia, where the government is still here, or those who wrote the agenda have not changed the name of the republic. She is no longer Macedonia, she is now Northern Macedonia. Maybe it doesn't have to change, God asks you how it's gonna end. This is about Serbia's intention to establish co-operation in the area of education. But the time and circumstances in which we find ourselves find ourselves are certain thoughts that are logical. Where has the representatives of the Serbian government launched an initiative in the last eight years or something like that, when it comes to supplementary education, the Serbian Corps, specifically said Serbian children in Macedonia? It's not anywhere, it's just lost. It was lost in that wave of general European euphoria, explaining that it was meant to be proportionate or proportionate to the number of students who would go to Serbia. Something very valuable has been lost, and this is the Serbian Corps of Young People who were and were willing to show that will by attending an additional teaching organised to learn language, history and all that is foreseen by the programme. They were even organized, so-called. summer schools, so one of these so-called or camps was organised in the Prohor monastery for reasons that it would be closer to the children of Serbian origin, or to those living in Macedonia, and they want to learn Serbian language, Serbian history, and that's lost. How? No one knows. Now we have one leadership syndrome, so-called. The leadership of Serbia that has appeared in the last eight years. We always point out that we are leaders in this region, that Serbia is the one who is taking certain initiatives, and here we have some more things, some more details, which are the same as current developments in Montenegro, if nothing else, then for a warning. Don't forget not only by abolishing, gradually shutting down, not using such words, because I don't suppose you have in your vocabulary, gradually shutting down Serbian additional schools, but the Serbian Orthodox Church has simply been erased from Macedonia's space. There's an Ohrid eparchy. Doesn't that look like what Milo Djukanovic is doing to you? As the official government reacted, for this, for the additional school, it was considered not interested children. They're interested, the queen's not interested in the queen, she's not interested in the power to hire them about it. They were not interested in engaging in the educational staff when it came to the mood and the possibility of using the monastery space there was always the same mood, it was available to the state. But obviously something else has prevailed, it has overcome some logic that is looming and now in relations with Montenegro, that we do not spoil it, that we do not wave, that in Europe we are not called a remethyl factor. There must be a clear and loud saying that we cannot co-operate in the field of technology, in the field of science, if you do not renew and re-open the possibility that those interested in learning Serbian do so. Bulgaria intervened immediately on the issue of Northern Macedonia. What did Serbia do? Serbia stands by. The fact that generations have died to free old Macedonia, who is more interested in it. After all, history books are written so that it must be forgotten. It is of multiple importance to us to preserve this Serbian Corps. It will be preserved by renewing language, history, and all that is characteristic of the nation, that is, the Serbian people. Second, there's something here that's good. This is what the minister said, the signing of this law, or the adoption of the law on blind and weak-sighted persons, which should be made available to them all printed literature, that is, all that has been published as printed material or those who are disabled too, audio material should be available to them and that is something that is humane. The humanity of a society is seen in how much they care about such persons, not how much they singled out funds or money and collected from a voluntary contribution, but made it possible for these people to literally become involved in normal life, in normal functioning, and that's good. It's finally to pass that law. As for these laws on dual education, on secondary education, it comes down to one and the same. There's always a story here that's the same story, that's the matrix that the Prime Minister started. Here, Verica Radeta is a witness, she listened to it live, when Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said that the results of dual education already show up, that they are obvious. None of the generations have ended, none of them. So wait for people to finish some generation, at least one so let's say it's good. We have said – should return to some traditional forms of education. When it comes to this dual education, he's neither a master nor a high school student. He'll either be a master or he'll be a high school boy. We had Shuvar's reform, Stipe Shuvar started reforming, so we had ten years of general education, and then two years of high school, and he's not a high school student, and he's not a craftsman. Here the Ministry goes in some conditional terms, demarcation when it comes to dual education, so those who have completed secondary education, and similar to dual education, have to be confirmed that they are capable of doing the same thing as those who have completed dual education. But that's not the point. The bottom line is the next one. Everything here that we talk about education and middle and dual is the dominant role of employer, the dominant role. You're literally making something that's known as Max's -- instead of working to live, we're living to work. The employer will decide whether someone who fits him, whether he is capable after dual education or after finishing high school. It's a good thing you're here by law forbidding a student from 10:00 to 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. working hours, that's the so-called. I'm a shifter. That's good. It's illegal. Whether or not it will be respected, no one knows. This wasn't about stamps. This law requires the re-registration of stamps. It's not a naive thing at all. You know there are many complaints, complaints of existing, valid stamps in Serbia. One example, the Croatian meat industry continues to dispute, a private industry that deals with the same business because of the shape of the stamp, and that is not a naive thing at all. This opens the possibility that an appeal may be made when a stamp application is made. It must be taken care of to protect the national industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68631	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68632	I'll try for a while. When it comes to the abuse of any law, this is where we put it as a competent and educational inspection. So the school is this guarantee that if an employer has abused a student for night work, then certainly an educational inspection is hired, and they have other inspections to monitor it. So I don't think there should be a problem here. Employers must be other parents now, but they won't leave the case. There are no parallels to the Shuvar system. I was a professor in that system. He looked like a known system and then, and this is a system that is absolutely famous in the world and not only translated by this German block of countries, Switzerland, Austria, Germany, has Spain. Similar to our model of smaller and medium-sized enterprises. In principle, it is only important that the employer in time provides himself with a worker and that young man learns through work. We had it similar in socialism, but it's not socialism anymore, it's not so much an unknown model for us. What you were saying about Northern Macedonia, I was present, and it's really just a need to redefine there, starting with how many Serbs there are, because I think it's been reported there that there are 36, 40,000, certainly more than double that. And to tell you the truth, I've actually visited every school in the region, with an interest that through this unit that we've built through the Ministry, we've tried to raise it, we're going back to something that's much better possible, and we're doing what we're doing. If we've given all the rights here to all minorities, 27 national councils, I'm right to ask. I'm neither dim, nor I'm someone there who's got a crowd of spoons, but I'm looking for what we've made possible for your countrymen, I expect ours. Believe me, Minister of Education and Science, Northern Macedonia, is an Albanian. A perfectly reasonable man, he wants absolutely everything we've agreed on now he will. I have opened one school which is a Serbian, a good host, which is the president of Skopje's central municipality, which is like the whole inner part of Belgrade of these central municipalities, our Sasa Bogdanovic, one great man, one of the perhaps better politicians that the country has in general. Serious money they managed to gather, serious associations, now the Spona, for example, works perfectly there, but some kind of row between Serbs, wherever they are, always exist. However, I overcome it by our interest above all that and we are going to open up as many additional schools as possible and continue in Serbian with elements of national culture in urban areas, above all Skopje. There are only three schools in Skopje's Montenegro still in these villages, Tabanovce and others, where teaching is performed, as a sprayed minority community according to Macedonia's plan and programme, north of Macedonia to be. True, in that village you have a temple from the period of King Milutin closed. It's nothing, it's not a museum. It is indeed painful for you when you come to this place and you see something like that, and the gate and everything else is standing. They barely opened it for me to get inside, light a candle to cross. But what we need to do there, to establish secondary education, because if they end up in elementary school and have something to do with the queen, middle school missing, is my plan, at least, if I do this further, to open up in one of the high school Serbian departments completely, as well as to open up in Kumanovo, in a conversation with the mayor, who is half Serbian, at the school "Vuk Karadzic", where there is plenty of space and which is being targeted by Albanians to take over, to open up some of the secondary vocational education. Otherwise, we scholarships to Serbs from the region have increased. I accepted the most scholarship this year to Serbs from Albania and Northern Macedonia, because yet Montenegro has the right to study here our Serbs, who are declared there, and from Republika Srpska we gave a smaller number, because we have three universities there that we help. So it's just the first serious steps in that field. There is no meeting where I do not speak to the Montenegrin minister of education, a young man, my daughter's age. And they don't have a category that they don't even know what they're serving, the so-called mother tongue. So no one in the world speaks our native language, only in Montenegro. To avoid the problem of the minority, which Serbs will certainly not, and the constitutional people, you have that there is something that is nonsensical, that you have in your children's diary and that it now writes the native language of speech, and each right in the section writes - Croatian, Bosniak, Serbian and Montenegrin. There's a lot of pressure on young generations that it's Montenegrin. We have welcomed that through this law of the church, a little awareness of the whole story and that a serious story should begin, because there really must not be a repeat of what was in Croatia. So, for every other country, pressure on Slovenia, I personally work for two years, two ministers have changed, the session was held jointly by the Government of Slovenia and Serbia, recently in Novi Sad, and we have publicly delegated this issue, because Slovenia has avoided asking minorities by entering the EU. She left it to be the neighbor's issue, and the issue is for Croats and these Italians, now for the first time Serbs. So it's our fault, it's nobody's fault, because the rights we give, we have the right to seek. We are doing the same thing with Albania now, and this "little Schengen" gives us the right, we have already provided two teachers there for Shkodra and Vraku and for Tirana and some places south of it, to go, so we have provided the lecturers. What's important to these two countries, they're just about to start making laws about minorities that we have. That's a good time. I'm trying to have the best possible relationship so I can use it to give the Serbian community as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68633	The right is not a replica, People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68634	Ministers, there should be an advantage when it comes to education and prevention of assimilation, especially the assimilation of Serbian living in northern Macedonia, that association with the SPC. You well know, as the public knows, that the Prohor monastery is literally a painful point for Northern Macedonia, for their politics. Its entire statehood is located in the Prohor Pcinski monastery, which is reportedly based on historical forgeries, held an anti-fascist nation of Macedonia, which is nowhere to be confirmed. But that's another reason to have a motive more, because at this point in time when complete Macedonia is at a crossroads, that the minister has no doubt, Albanian nationality, accepts everything, so it suits him. They have achieved their goal there. They reportedly achieved the right of a constructive people with 20% of their percentage participation, their population of Albanian nationality, and the whole Serbian Corps has narrowed down to that, to the transparency that we are guessing how many of them there are. There is much more, because those who now plead and feel like Macedonians, over time due to historical circumstances, will turn to Serbia, but the queen must be more active. There's one problem I'd like to discuss with you. Here, in this law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, you state, ministers, that those schools that have capacities have the opportunity to educate adults and to rent their premises, that they can do so freely. But, Minister, in those areas, not a small number of cases, I apologize to Mr. Arsic, if I can only finish, not a few cases is that he's holding private lessons in football school, tennis, and the space is used, and those who attend those schools are students from that school. Is it not the logic of things to stimulate those who teach physically or in such a way and other subjects, those who work in those schools, in order to be extracurricularly active and to train the same students? Isn't that the logic of things? It's not all about materially and financially exploiting yourself. Thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68635	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68636	I'm sorry we don't have time for this topic as a topic anymore. It's a really big subject and we can't do it so short. What's important is that we're on the move, and I really have a whole little unit that deals with me. It is very important that we pave the way, that with each, first of ministers, we have good relations, like the state, we have good relations. This is the purpose of the ‘little Schengen’. But if I tell you that our church is strong in the Romanian part of Banat, and that the Serbs have fallen to 16,000, then that's where it's all dragged through the vastly sub-navigation and villages, and that's where we have to build a boarding school if we want to bring them in, we have to get vehicles. So there's more assimilation there. In every country we've made a strategy, a little plan, and we'll know how much money we need and where we can, where our church partner is, that's what we do. But where the church was teaching the extra class, the pedestals, or someone else unprofessional, we now beg to teach religion and something else, and to free the state, because the state is now paying for it. They don't have to pay the church to do that. That's how we worked in Munich, so now we're going to London, wherever there's Serbs. This is after a long time a serious strategy to deal with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68637	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68638	Minister, you've set one of the right examples. Whoever was in a situation to visit Serbia's High School in Temisoara, and especially to experience that the choir of the high school, which was composed of most of the Serbian children and the origin of Serbs, sings "there far away", it was difficult for anyone to endure that emotions had not worked. Most of them, believe it or not, know as many Serbian words as the song "Down far" contains, and with such a feeling they sing that man cannot remain indifferent. That's where Serbia made a big mistake. I'm not saying that Serbia is generally like a state, but that after "5. October," they broke those ties, they said they were literally not interested in the minority living in the Gerdapian ravine, so it was transferred to northern Macedonia, so it started in Montenegro. There's a phenomenon in Montenegro when it comes to language. It is the only Montenegrin language that does not need translation into their native Serbian. It's the only language. It's unique. Now, look, what needs to be done is for the Ministry and the Ministry to be engaged. Not only can the Ministry of Education, when it comes to our diaspora, have many ministries. You have a law in Romania in particular, and others pass a similar law, where it defends any of the immovableities to be owned by schools where Serbian children or preschool institutions have Serbian children, and even those didactic assets cannot be owned by a pre-school institution, but it must be owned at that time by a Yugoslav airport or by some of our companies that are in Romania, as well as vehicles and everything. It's something important for history, for the entire Serbian Corps, ministers. That is also the way to think about it, and something is happening here when it comes to this framework qualification. You ministers have made a compromise here. You said – we will not debate individually in the validity of these diplomas, we will put it all on the labour market, so let the employer decide whether it suits a diploma or not. What are we gonna do? We will come to the Minister's situation, that whoever ended up in an American college called "Sorogy" for braids and embroidery, he is treated as a college-educated man who ended up in Serbia and the employer will choose him if he is cheaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68639	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68640	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, this set of proposed laws in the field of education is proof that we are continuing with reforms and that the results of these reforms are increasingly visible in practice. The goal of education along with digitisation is Serbia's modernisation. That is why it is important for the quality of education, it is important for society to be based on knowledge, on lifelong learning, but increasingly on adult education and on requalifications that I would say the Ministry of Education is conducting well. I expect the new education strategy, together with the action plan, to define in a clear way every step and every segment of education, to raise the educational role of the school, to eliminate all observed shortcomings, to have clear guidelines and a defined plan for the future of education in Serbia. How important this is also to show the reforms we have launched in the field of education and I would say that it was the last moment to catch a clear direction in modernising the educational system in Serbia. I agree with your assessment, Mr. Minister, that major changes in the field of education will take place by introducing a state degree in two years, because it will be a period when our students will no longer learn about grades, but will learn about knowledge and that the effects of the PISA test, the last PISA tests are not presented in the best way in Serbia, because they referred to 15-year-olds, and education reforms have not yet reached what quality we expect in this segment. In addition, it is important to point out that children in Serbia are on TIMSS testing 27 in the world, because our youngsters from seven to eleven years old participate in this competition, but unfortunately this did not echo as much in our media as these PISA tests because everything that is good with us under some nadal system of values does not deserve true value, and what is bad in some way is potential and if you have given one sufficient argument. When it comes to national graduation, I believe that this year the children and parents will get clear information about it and if the first graduation is scheduled for 2022, because we as a people are known to be having a hard time adapting to change, that we have the resistance to, that we have an established plan on how admission exams are conducted in colleges, and this is already giving about some kind of chilling parents and children that I believe you will quickly remove, because teachers themselves do not have much information yet. It is very important to point out that over the past period, you have managed to get our education 10,000 digital classrooms, that special classes are open in high schools and for gifted in chemistry and physics, that dual profiles and dual education have fully been brought to life, because learning through the work of a young man acquires the opportunity to have a secure job during schooling, which is very important. A strategy of artificial intelligence has been developed, during your mandate and your associates 900 schools have been renovated and these are very important shifts and results that have improved our quality of education and education. I'm curious about when they're going to start hiring educators. I know that there's about 25,000 of them since 2016. You announced their employment in January this year. I believe that this will be an additional motivation for them with paid classes and that would be a very important impulse for our schooling. In the next period we also have a few things that in my opinion we have to make more efforts to resolve, and above all I think that although the government has taken certain steps, my opinion is that further steps are needed to motivate our young people to stay in Serbia and live. Measures to combat peer violence are also important. I closely monitor the activities of the government of the Republic of Serbia's Working Group in this area and expect and the public to expect concrete measures in the area. We also have a big problem with drug dealers in the vicinity of schools, regardless of the presence of school police officers and video surveillance, and I would say the great activities of the Republic of Serbia's MUP in the arrest of drug dealers and seized drugs. Also, the big problem is the great involvement of our young people in gambling, gambling. That's one serious problem. I know that Slovenia has banned in general the advertising of casinos, that the other day the UK announced that since April, a law that has been banned from using cards in the field of gambling has entered into force. All I'm saying is it's not just the Ministry of Education's jurisdiction, it's one serious problem for all of us, but it's somewhere closest to the Ministry of Education. I think we need to do a lot more in the field of education to work on prevention, on parenting education, on family support. When I talk about parenting, first of all, I think about young parents and somewhere in the preschool system, I think it should give a certain incentive. At the end of my presentation, but first of all, I think it is very important, that for the implementation of all reforms, of course education reforms, important political stability, unlike the sick minds who unfortunately threaten President Vukic and his family daily with the aim of causing chaos because they know they can never beat him and because they know that the people won't. Instead, our message is that we want murderers and drug dealers behind bars. Our message is the "Serbia 2025" programme, which represents an unsatisfactory dream for many who have already been in power, who have done nothing and who have only filled their pockets instead of developing Serbia. Six hundred and nineteenm euros in the proceeds of Dragan Gilas's companies while in power, I believe they are responding in the head of every Serbian citizen. These are all the reasons why I will support this set of laws in the voting day, as well as my colleagues from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68641	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68642	Dear Dubravka, when it comes to prom, things go their own way and I said a little before, at the beginning of the session that we could have even a year earlier. It can't be less than four years, it has to be announced to a generation that's now in eighth grade that it's going to be done and that the model that they're going to enter is going to end up in a new model. So that's why not four years and the preparations are done. When we realized that we could even do it at that rate a year earlier, we did what was pedagogical for children. That generation didn't enter the reform plan and the program, and we said, let's do rehearsals multiple times just to get teachers and everyone else down, and that's a joint project of secondary and higher education. So there's no dilemma, when you hear someone say they're only two years old, so we didn't start now, so we're doing it three years ago, we're using IPA funds, we've got four million euros, so we've got everything now and that's something that's a really good story going in the right direction. You are absolutely right that this is the biggest lever of change in Serbian education, because suddenly with some licensed grades that can be such or such, you come that the teacher predicts success, and that the independent assessment is the result and his work outcome of learning and thus, indeed no one can bid success anymore or install the Vuk models in a higher amount. So that's really one turning point. No more taking money for reception and a series of other negative things that followed this phenomenon. A small graduation will follow a big one, but not in full scope, it will go along with another model and already since June will be half digital, when I say half means that the works will be scanned and sent to a centre in Belgrade and software that we are working with FON from our university will be digitally reviewed, and there is no risk of a human factor that something bad happens. We're doing tests with the post office and other state authorities to protect it safely in some boxes, bags, so I don't talk to you, but that model will be modified. We have 860m euros in our budget, which is why the IT office, due to the restrictions on the purchase of new computers, which have nothing to do with digital classrooms, goes to another 10,000 digital classrooms, and the resources of machines and tools must now be cumulatively collected, and we will have already happened close to 50,000 seriously new computers, renovated, double cabinets by schools, because in the first to fourth, with the fact that in the first and second classes, the point is hidden with the tablet, and since the third grade with the computer or laptop, it's all one thing, so in that domain, we will have more than enough computers in 2022, or how many generations of students, that it can be done digitally. Not many European countries are working fully digitally, and everyone, as far as I've been doing, has been working for four to five years. I think we can do it in two years, and it's going to be a serious shift. Peer violence is a major problem, not Serbia, UNESCO, in Paris was a problem, it's the problem of the whole world. Circumstances, relations, values change, as Serbia is justified by bad events in the 1990s, however, the family must take its responsibility. An analysis of anything you come up with is the cause of the family. Among the ministerial teams will do their job to connect better the Centre for Social Work, the police, the judiciary, etc. We made more contributions and at the last meeting, the conclusion was to change protocol, because now, in violence, it is believed to be done now and in employees, over employees. We have passed in this same law in the ZOS, which we are changing, excellent transitional provisions for punishments, for parents who do not do their work, but also the judiciary does not recognize them, and they are hardly applied. We have now designed community councils of parents, what is in the law, which we have to do with local self-government, because the greater value, the greater angle of view has such a body, than within the school itself, which can prevent, connect, bring in equal purchases, excursions and a number of other things, and 104 local self-governments already have that body, remains that body, and with UNICEF we are working with both school psychologists and educators, and we also have a team that raises their visibility on prevention, on work, on education, on all of this issue. We've got another resource, and we've done it, people who've ever worked in education, and these are secretaries' teams. The secretary of the school is a lawyer, a significant person who needs to initiate any procedure, when a bad situation occurs in the institution, because it is usually transferred responsibility, so the activities of the director and the activities of the secretaries, the activities of expert associates with parent advice will make someone as a co-ordination body at the level of some local self-government that will take this topic much more seriously with the authorities of local self-government. What's done is done very well, and we'll let the public know, and that's a project of one-dimensional day's work and teaching. We're trying to explain to the public that in those 300 schools that are in the pilot in one semester, there were no such phenomena, because when you give the kids good contents. Really, there's a lot of work to be done. I'm trying to tell my younger colleagues in that body that there's nothing fast. Whoever thinks that in education can do it when the light turns on and you order, he's wrong. So it's been going down for a long time, it can't get up fast, it can be accelerated, it's working on it intensely, but it's processes. And political stability is the basis of any reform of education, any smart country. In any part of the developed world, this is not a daily political issue, and this is not a question of one minister, his cabinet, one government, this is a question, because these are some standards of value. If the strategy passes 100 hands, you all go out, not public listening, but on partial, reviewing every segment of education and adopting it at the government, in parliament, then it's public good, then it's necessary to be kept and everyone says, it doesn't matter whether I like Alexander Vukic or I don't know who else, but this is good for my child. The same goes for me, I don't like Wolfie, but I'm driving on the highway he built.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68643	The word has the people's messenger, Andrian Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68644	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens, today's proposal for a law on dual education implies a certain complement and improvement of its implementation, with the aim of making it easier for our young people and also employers to engage them. First of all, I would like to commend the plan to realize learning through work, which becomes an integral part of the school's annual plan. The employer is obliged to provide adequate health security measures at work in accordance with the regulations, a commission whose representatives are representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the cabinet of the RS Prime Minister, as well as a representative of the Swiss Economic Institute at the Federal Institute for Technology in Zurich, which supports the panel's expert support in the field of dual education. The Commission has held 11 sessions since its establishment to discuss the implementation process, possible risks and opportunities for overcoming them. There are examples of dual education in developed countries of Europe, such as Switzerland, Germany, Austria, France and Hungary. What is common to all these countries is that dual education is high on the list of priorities. In line with the needs of the economy, the modernisation of the required profiles has been done and I am sure that students who attend modernized profiles will be able to earn more pay than their peers, because they will use skills and knowledge acquired during pre-school education. I believe that learning through work also has a positive impact on the confidence of young people, where they feel socially useful, because there is an increase in their expertise for different activities. With this model, our youngsters spend part of their education with the employer, but they also have the opportunity to have classes in schools. By introducing a system of education that is consistent with the labour market in the younger years, it actually brings double profits. Companies get professional staff, and the young perspective for work, I also think dual education is an important factor in the success of the economy. What I would like to commend is that there is great interest in both businesses and schools. It is also important to take into account the opinions of foreign experts and to use the experience of countries that have successfully implemented dual education. I also think it is important that dual education be an integral part of formal education, and when we talk about companies, they want trained labour and educated people for different profiles and actions. Many countries have a problem with youth unemployment, because they lacked certain skills, so there was a problem for young people who could not find a job because of lack of experience, and on the other hand, a large number of companies that did not have enough training. That's why this law introduces a very strong dual education involving companies with labour training to achieve the necessary skills, and most importantly, by applying this model, it reduces the number of unemployed. We are obliged to direct our young people, encourage them and enable them to work easier and thus stay in our Serbia. That is why, in every sense, I support that bill. I will also mention that at the end of January, the first competition for the employment of educators will be launched, as my colleague asked earlier. The advantage of employment will be given to educators who work for a long time for a certain period of time. The next competition will take place in February and then March. That, respected citizens, is between 18,000 and 22,000 employees of a permanent contract. Thanks to last year's budget surplus, the inflow of foreign and domestic investments, reducing the unemployment rate to a single-digit number of 9.5%, we are today able to provide a stable future for our citizens who will, at the same rate, lead to a rise in birth rate. I almost listened to Mr. Gilas' statement that our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, no longer knows what he's saying, or I quote "where he hits." Well, Mr. Gilas, our president doesn't hit citizens' pockets of 618m euros, but with joint effort, work, pawnage and despite pressures from all sides, we are building together a better future for our Serbia. I'm sure you wouldn't know where you hit if you were working on the same model as our president, because Serbia has never evolved faster. In the past 12 months, we have implemented the most significant reforms, which have led us to boast today that we are the most advanced country in the region. My question to you is, have you ever had a surplus in your budget during your reign or had you the highest unemployment rate of 27%? I'll remind you this time that in your time, Serbia was the most in charge, with the highest interest rate. Let me also remind you of the formation of various committees, privatisation agencies, SIEPA and many others where your party colleagues and associates had salaries of 3,000 euros and more. With the arrival of SNS and our President, Alexander Vukic, we were able to immediately shut down all of those agencies. To remind our citizens, also of the loss of 618m euros, to remind our citizens again, and it is very important to mention it often, which went into Dragan Gilas' pocket. You were the first to take from the most socially endangered and from all of us citizens. At the time, children shared lunches in schools, because parents didn't have to give them money for the same, not today when you're making lies, when the unemployment rate is on a single-digit number. So either way, Mr. Gilas was your Serbia when you took 618 million from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You have also promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia fair work and a bid for a better tomorrow and for a better future for us and our children. In the name of democracy, you unfortunately only took from us, hired your staff, and all for the sake of buying votes, and thus led our Serbia to bankruptcy, that we were forced to reduce our pensions to the pensioners, who had stoically filed it. I really thank them for that. That we were forced to ban any further employment. You've left our president with the most difficult task and the empty state register. Do you really think the people can believe in your better tomorrow? Neither Serbia forgets nor the citizens forget. The contribution is to examine the public opinion which clearly states where your politics and the belief of the people are when it comes to your party. People remember and do not want your subjectivity, hatred and violence. Your golden age has passed. You have a gap primarily in your party. Our children see your violence. An attempt to violently invade our Republic Assembly. They're listening to different threats to our president with a gun to the head, threatening women, the president and our children and everyone who thinks differently from you, and we know very well that in the end your insinuators and unfortunately the late Ranko Panic, who disagreed with your policy. Serbia today is a stable country that has made it possible for citizens to increase wages, increase pensions, build highways, the largest in our country's history, inflow of foreign and domestic investments, increase in employment, thanks to stable economy and investment, a country that always advocates peace and stability, and above all, a country that wants and insists on staying and living in our Serbia. We can always do better than our president would say. And that's why the new investment plan foresees an even greater development and greater investment in all structures and actions, which I'm going to talk about on another occasion, because I want to leave time to my dear colleagues. Of course, with the further implementation of the argumented policy that we are exclusively serving, with great effort and effort, and with adequate personnel, because the SNS, our president and all of us, is the goal of continuing and developing an even better future for our children, our citizens and our Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68645	The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jevtic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68646	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a set of education laws in front of us, and I will look back today on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on dual education. The basic reason for the amendment and addition of this law lies precisely in its improvement, i.e. the improvement of co-operation between the education system and the economy. Educational policy in Serbia has recognised the dual system since 2013, 2014. At the time, there were only 400 students in three educational profiles and co-operated with only 40 companies. Of course, the responsible policy of Mr. Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has created conditions for investors to come, to open new factories and to employ a very large number that has recorded a figure of 700,000 people since 2012. For this very reason, all of this has led to an expansion of co-operation between the education system and the economy. So now five years later in dual education in Serbia, knowledge and work experience has reached about 7,000 students in 104 schools on 37 dual profiles. So far 400 companies have been accredited or in the accreditation process with 953 licensed instructors, which is, you will agree, ten times as much as in 2013, 2014 when dual education began. Just schooling in the dual model of education enjoys the very great support of Mr. Alexander Vukic, who at the conference "Dual education – knowledge of the future" pointed out that it is an education that brings not only safe work and receiving, but also responsibility and seriousness, a form of education in which practical and applicable knowledge is acquired towards market needs. From this we clearly see the goal, and the future of our children is, of course, the quality of education, which is the most stable path that leads to the achievement of the objectives of society as a whole. I will take this opportunity to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development for recognising Vrnjak Banja's catering and tourist school as a leader, recognising it as a quality school, a school that has become one of the ten resort centres for lifelong learning. The school will receive significant funds from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to help equip cabinets, help equip the school restaurant with the most modern equipment, and there students of the Restaurant-Tourist School will have places to work, to advance and to what is a resource-based national centre, to prequalify and requalify the staff who, of course, need to be placed on the market. Local leadership in Vrnjačka Banja, I have to boast, with a lot of power and a lot of elanas took part in attracting investors and a number of high-class hotels opened up. It is precisely one of the materials that will be used for the work of these students who will soon be educated in a dual method at the Restaurant-Tourist School in Vrnjačka Banja and who will help hire those staff who will qualify, i.e. overqualified at the said school. To go back to the key changes and additions that concern the dual education law. The key changes are primarily in defining a clear difference between practical teaching, of course, and professional practice, which are defined by the Law on secondary education and education, as well as learning through work, which is defined by the Law on Dual Education. Another of the changes and additions that are very important are the need to include state authorities in the dual model, so the proposal includes the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. Another of the quality changes is to enable students who are currently prevented from working in dual methods, to finish their education under the laws applicable to secondary education and education. The planned amendment concerning facilitating the accreditation process of companies and, of course, those licensing of professors or these instructors for the work itself has been made changes related to child safety in the learning process itself, the ban on work, which is very important, in the period from 22 hours to 06 hours and, of course, certain changes concerning enrolment, etc. At the very end of my presentation, I would like to say that the future definitely belongs, in me, to dual education, which in high school and higher education institutions, to once again commend the Ministry of Science, Education and Technological Development and Minister, Mr Sarčević, whom I like to say is the greatest reformer after Dosite Obradović and to say that it is simply a reform, i.e. a quality school of this reform, and that we can certainly say that we have a developed education system, which measured the value of every successful state, and yes, you will agree with me, Serbia definitely is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68647	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68648	And God is my witness, and so is Arsic, when I checked in before you commended me, that I wanted to tell you something else. On Friday, we made a decision to develop high education in Vrnjačka Banja, at the Faculty of Tourism, as the gastronomy department opens. It is the first good department for the development of such a part of tourism and hospitality and there we have dedicated good money to take care of the cabinet, because for the needs of the Vrnjačka Banja high school will be one wider centre. And then college is important and that's where we create this one vertical, just like we do in Kragujevac and other cities. This is just setting up a base. We really want the resources of the centers to be places and our high school centres and colleges to really be organizers, both public and whatever, of all learning models. Our goal is to get all the professional academys, as well as higher education, to network with their partners, and on this we work a lot, abroad, to come in principle not only to recognise diplomas, bureaucratic, each other, and there is not the right gentleman when he spoke, I have not been able to answer him - similar education systems are easily recognized and recognized. We have a problem with some institutions that already in the region won't admit it, now they're on the list. We have blacklists, too. So the goal is to make all those black lists disappear and get everyone into some better model. But for many of the academy, we provided partners. For the Academy of Sapac, which also has a high-professional agriculture, partners in France. We have partners in Germany, and very soon, somewhere in early February, Weber Academy will have business academy 1. So these are serious stories and there are grenades that will give higher education the opportunity to train as many people to teach and teach in English as possible, where we already have a lot of programs, but also in French, because of francophony, and in German and other languages, and then we'll have another level more. If the employer knows that there are 60,000 workers in Serbia, so there's a high-level academy here that works according to the same model and recognition of diplomas, means, double degrae, along with their most recognized diplomats, it's totally something that keeps that young man here, and they get a quality shot. Of course language competences are important, too, but that's the model we're building right now, and that's why in higher education, there's going to be a lot of good changes in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68649	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68650	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Dual Education, but I really can't help but look back at the comment, or tweet Vesne Pesic, the woman who is a graduate sociologist, my colleague, although she is 20-30 years older than me, I don't know, who is so inappropriate that it hurts. In fact, the lady said -- no matter what boycott, referring to the SZS, the wolf tube in the head. Watch out, that's scary. I thought the woman was an intellectual, but since education is part of culture, and culture is the way of life, I thought that woman was cultural. With all due respect to her and her diplomas and her many functions here, I'm amazed. Is it possible for one woman, in this woman, to say such stupidity, to call on the president's link, and that President Vukic, who brought this country out of dubiosis, which has led the Republic of Serbia to be a factor of stability in the region, which built 350km of roads, which builds schools, hospitals, which renovate whatever it renovates, all living in Serbia, renovates, shame. I wish that lady, since I hear it's her birthday, happy birthday, and she lives a long time. The word has power. We are what we say, among other things. I'm ashamed of her statement. I'm a sociologist. We're experiencing things here from each other, we're fighting, this is a political struggle, this is our arena, but to wish someone death, so it's scrupulous. Also, tweet Tatic Slavka - only dead Wolfs are good Wolfs, gentlemen, is this possible in the 21st century, that you, except the president, are calling his entire family? I would ask the judicial authorities to take a good look at this man, because, you know, in Serbia there are people who are normal, but there are people who may have some psychological problems. This could really be an invitation to the lynch. Let's take care of this on time. This is a shame. I am asking all MPs, among other things, this Mrs Pesic, I would not call her ma'am, I would not really, because Vesna Pesic was also an MP in this parliament, and she was also in diplomacy. The woman was in Mexico, our representative, or ambassador. Is that the kind of people we send? Do people like that even need... Come on, I don't want to talk about it anymore. I'm ashamed to talk about this. Let him sit in front of the mirror and see what she said, and we'll see what happens next. As far as this law is concerned, of course the law is good, not that it's good, but it's great, you're doing a great job, and someone said a little earlier than most respected colleagues that no one has completed this dual education. That's not true. We had a pilot project in 2013-2014, 400 students attended the project, ended 320, as I recall. Of those 320, 210 got hired. Well, bravo, that's the way it works! So, the kids got the job. And to know what dual education is, that people know, well, it's learning through work and it's great. Not everyone can be science doctors, not everyone can be artists, lawyers, someone has to be a good master. Guys, we're missing masters today. We build Belgrade on water and import labour. Why? Well, we're not all the same intelligence. Someone's gotta be a carpenter, someone's gotta be a welder, someone's gonna be a baker. And that's wonderful. Such people open up private businesses and people like that have a lot more money than doctors have science, teachers and others. And that was never a criterion. The scale is work, discipline. If you're committed, you'll have a lot of money. I like this very much. It's a good thing the government made a commission, that they always have insight into what's going on. Otherwise, this is a system of interaction. These include, above all, students and schools, the Chamber of Commerce, as the most important are you, the Minister, or Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and this must function non-stop under control. I'm glad that there's this control and that you're all, all valid instance inside and I'm sure dual education will bring extraordinary results in a few years. The first and most important reason to look at is to define a clear difference between practical teaching, and I have to say that for the sake of theater, so that people simply know what it is, and professional practice, which is good. The second reason why we need to adopt this law is to adopt amendments and additions, there is also the need for the involvement of state authorities, I have already said. Without state authorities, we have no prosperity, or simple interaction. The third reason is to provide the possibility of enrolling students in a dual model and foremodel, and that's good, because children can even declare in primary school that they want to enroll in dual education, that is, to attend. It is also good that the survey, i.e. the GIZ or the international agency of Germany, was conducted on an exemplar of 208 students, polls and children, was enthusiastic. They say they've gained confidence in this way of learning. They also say that it is much better to work, or to learn shorter, and much better to work, as they show results in practice. So, there's no such thing, you come to the firm, and someone's just later training you, but the man's in it, he's working and he's got great results. According to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of September 2019/20. In total, 72 secondary schools implement one or more dual educational profiles of 35 dual educational profiles for this year. That's good. About 2,600 students enrolled first class in the dual model of education, 7,000 students in 104 schools and 37 dual educational profiles. I find this quite, not that it's good, but it's great, because there's a hyper-production of profession. Unfortunately, there are historians, sociologists, even psychologists, archaeologists. When you graduate from college, you say, "Yeah, I'm done with college." Now let the state get me a job. Well, it's not like that. When you're in college, watch what you're going to write, because you have to live on something, and that country gives you everything to finish it. Now, whether to provide you with a job depends on your abilities. Thank you for your attention. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote for all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68651	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68652	Don't mind my lack of interaction. It's very important that you know that we've really been measuring the time since the new cycle began, not forgetting that this is the first generation, not the first kittens. It wasn't called dual then, but they tried to call it cooperative and it's really good that it started and so on. We now have a much better indicator, it now has a full swing, but you must know that 3.5 years ago the relationship in Serbia's secondary education was 22% high school, 78% medium professionally, classically. With that number of students, it was 0.2%, invisible. So, now these things change significantly and you'll hear when we represent model strategies by segments of what Serbia's plan is, just like you said. Nothing bothers that things are so balanced that life imposes needs, that you have a market-oriented economy that requires labour and young people who move through that model. They can thrive in many ways all their lives. On the other hand, we develop science, develop artificial intelligence, develop 4.0 revolutions. We need a lot of intellectuals now. To achieve that, we raise the capacity of the high school from that 22 to more than double. How are we gonna do that? Well, that's already done with the high school reform that started. We didn't wait to write a strategy, so let's get started, but we do all the time, and there's a lot of stuff going in there. Then it's a completely peaceful story that you have enough people who will be very well trained to continue fast quality studies and a good number of people who will be masters, work, but also a line of lifelong advancement and learning.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68653	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68654	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow Members of the People, at the very beginning of my presentation, I simply need to thank you, you, Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the funds you have identified, and the funds are up to 450,000 euros, for building a floor at the John Kursul elementary school in Varvarin. You've been through the papers yourself, we've seen each other there, and I thank you for that. Because, you know how, our local budget could never afford such an investment, and then you know why I just thank you for this opportunity. I will focus my presentation today on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on dual education, because dual education is very important for all young people in our country, for their future, and also for our economy and for the development of our economy. The main reason for the adoption of such changes and additions is certainly the improvement of co-operation between higher education, dual education, the overall system of education with economy, and certainly the changes and additions will directly affect the improvement, i.e. the improvement of the development of dual education in our country. Some basic reasons why amendments and additions to the proposed Law on dual education have been approached are also a clear definition, i.e. the difference between practical teaching and professional practice defined by the Law on secondary education and learning through the work defined by the Law on dual education, where it is clearly specified that practical teaching and professional practice are carried out both at school and at the employer and combined, of course in accordance with the plan and programme of teaching and learning, and learning through work is only possible to be conducted with the employer and in accordance with the Law on Dual Education, and 20-80 % of the foundation of the courses of professional subjects. Also, I want to commend and extend the circle for employers, when it comes to providing dual education and including state authorities, and we will include these changes and additions in the dual system of education and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior as employers. Also, these changes and additions will enable and enroll students in a dual model and foreword, certainly putting an accent on the priority of enrolment of certain dual profiles, and on the other hand we will create dual models, comply with the Regulation on Dangerous Interests for children, as well as raising student safety levels in the process of learning through work. Also, these amendments and additions to the Bill of Law will allow a student who is not allowed to learn through working in the course of dual education, so that he can continue his education in accordance with the Law on secondary education and education. The changes and additions that are proposed, which we are discussing today, we will ban learning through dual education during the night period, from 22 hours to six hours, which is very commendable. I think it is also one commendable thing that these changes and complements us, and that is now the precise composition of the Commission to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for learning through the work of the employer. The current application of this Dual Education Act has encountered some difficulties in the work of accreditation and licensing of instructors through work, so that these changes and additions will certainly have a direct impact on the removal of such difficulties. I would like to point out today that according to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and from September 2019/20. in the year, we have a total of 72 secondary schools that have entered the dual education model and they realize one or more dual education models, and according to data on the enrolment of high school students for the same school year, in the first class by dual education model there are as many as 2600 students enrolled. When we look in all classes, about 7,000 students are included in the dual model of education in 104 schools, on 37 dual educational profiles. According to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, 400 companies have already received accreditation or have been in the accreditation process. It is very important that secondary education is included in the dual education system itself, as well as the inclusion of universities, and these changes and additions will certainly bring about the improvement of the dual education system, because only countries that have such a system in their system of education and the inclusion of dual education can also believe that they are thinking about their future. We are free to say that we are proud today with young people who have already entered the dual education system, because they have created for themselves one responsibility and seriousness of accessing work and have also provided for themselves a secure job, as well as receiving. The primary goal of this government, as well as the Ministry of Education, is to create an opportunity for all young people to learn about future affairs and to acquire new skills, because I am sure that we all agree that almost all kinds of work learn much more in practice than in classrooms, or in theory. These laws will certainly restore the confidence of young people in institutions and show once again that young people, i.e. their education, are the priorities of this government, because it is certainly the future of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68655	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Studenka Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68656	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, we have before us amendments and amendments to the education law. First of all, I have to point out that when it comes to you ministers and your ministry, your work together to improve education, you really have continuity and quality in the solutions you take. For the past few years, as far as I am here in Parliament, every law you have laid before us has been aimed exclusively at improving the process of education, the well-being of students and the repair of the state of education in general, which has indeed been, as we know, very bad. In addition to significantly improving school conditions in recent years, which has been renovated, where even new, digitalisation has been introduced, which significantly facilitates the functioning of education and education systems, the greatest success, in my opinion is the introduction of dual education. Two decades ago, we could hear about how children graduate from schools without any practical knowledge, education for profiles for which there is no real need on the market, at least not in as many of them as that education profile ends. Furthermore, as a remark, we could also hear that educated profiles should be adapted to the needs of employers so that after graduation students could start a working relationship. This model of education, or dual model, solves precisely these mentioned problems. It enables learning through work, working with a potential employer, who, as we can see here, in most cases employs precisely those who are educated in a dual model. Since the Ministry of Education is monitoring the implementation of the laws that we are making here, the data clearly speak about the success of the introduction of a dual model of education, so we have data from September 2019/20 years of school, that a total of 72 secondary vocational schools realize one or more dual educational profiles of 35 dual educational profiles for this year. Preliminary data on enrolment of students in school 2019/20, relating to secondary school, shows that around 2,600 students enrolled first class in the dual model of education. In all classes of dual education, about 7,000 students attend 104 schools on 37 dual educational profiles. According to data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, up to now about 400 companies have been accredited or are under accreditation procedure with 953 licensed instructors. What more citizens should hear, when we talk about this issue, are the results of research in Serbia. For example, the German agency for international co-operation, GIZ, examined in its research the impact of modernising the quality of education outcomes on working status and the quality of employee jobs. It's about the locksmith profile, the welder, the electrician, the industrial mechanic. They are students enrolled in 2015/2016. year, and they finished school in 2018. The analysis showed that students who attended some of these three profiles found the first job precisely in a company where they attended learning through work, i.e. during a dual education model gained practical knowledge in these companies and earned more pay than their peers who did not learn by that model. There is also evidence that students attending dual profiles have found work that is related to their education. Also, there are data that tell us that employers are very satisfied with the staff they hire after finishing school by dual model, as well as data that students are satisfied with their profile selection, and their results are certainly far better. It is the best confirmation that you have done the right thing, both for the employment of young people and for the development of an economy that will have the appropriate quality of personnel trained to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68657	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68658	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we adopted the Law on Dual Education at the end of 2017 relating to educational profiles of three or four years, as part of secondary vocational education and education. At that time, there were 200 companies that met the conditions for inclusion in dual education. Therefore, it is about learning through the work of the employer, and it provides students other than knowledge and a certain fee for this work, which is good, as well as the possibility of employment after schooling with that employer, and provides the employer with a professional staff which is a close specialist for work. I want, since I'm from Nis, to give you some positive examples from southern Serbia, concerning the practical application of dual education. First, students from the "Nikola Tesla" Electrical School will have a two-year practice in the drive of the EMS, and for that time apart from learning, will receive minimum earnings, transportation and food compensation and will have health insurance. The dual education agreements were signed in October last year and there is the possibility that, apart from the knowledge, practical knowledge that is very important to them, students will also get a chance to provide themselves with a job. Another of the schools in southern Serbia where there is a dual education system is the Technical School from Vlasotinc, which even from the Ministry of Education, you probably remember, received recognition for working in the field of construction and for the success in implementing the dual education programme. In mid- 2018, the Ministry of Education approved four educational profiles per dual model for three secondary schools in Vranj. And that's for economic, technical and chemical school. This local self-government recognised the importance of quality education and the chances of students getting employment and providing employment, and therefore it is precisely one of the priorities of investing in education. Another example from southern Serbia is Vladic's Han. For example, in Vladic's Han, a course has been introduced where students will receive a calling after completing education – an industrial mechanic and this is agreed in co-operation with the new Turkish investor's factory "Teklas". This factory, to remind you, was opened by Aleksandar Vukic in mid-2016, employing 400 people and then opening up the possibility that young people would get a job at school. All in all, we see rapid development in the field of education, many educational profiles that give opportunity and support, especially young people, to find suitable occupations, to profite and to stay working in Serbia. The SNS Group will also support these proposals that are ahead of us today to continue, among other things, the accelerated development of education, education, education systems, but to develop the relationship between education and economy, i.e. the very economy in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68659	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68660	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, when it comes to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, when it comes to this government and, of course, this ministry, no one is asking whether something will be done anymore, but when something will be done. The set of laws adopted primarily by the Ministry of Education will have already brought some positive effects, but what we expect is that in the coming period these effects will be even greater, even more significant and in the longer term raises education to the level that the state of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, deserves. Until a few years ago, no one had a job, qualified, semi-qualified, unqualified, highly educated, everyone was in trouble. I think highly educated people in the biggest. They worked highly educated staff and in bakeries, and in cafes, and in trades, but the time has passed that will simply remain as a difficult period, but a period that will not be forgotten and from which serious changes have been made, or proposals to make something better, and this Government, this Ministry, this is better and suggested and implemented in action. They didn't even know how many kids were in school, and they didn't know what those kids were finishing and what they were going to do when that school was over. Thanks to serious measures, but also state measures, systemic changes and solutions with 26% unemployment, we reached 9.5%, a data that speaks for itself enough, but one of the key factors was the Ministry of Education. What has proved to be a real recipe, and this has proved to be true in this ministry, which is something that Alexander Vukic, in Serbia, did, and that is that Serbia has finally host, there is someone who is responsible for everyone in this Serbia, so it doesn't matter where he lives and it doesn't matter what part of Serbia he is in, and it doesn't matter how educated he is, it doesn't even matter if they support or support Alexander Vukic. Aleksandar Vukic is hosting this Serbia, the assembly hosts Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, and in the Ministry of Education, the most responsible is Minister Sarcevic. For all that is done or not done, Minister Sarcevic is also the most responsible and should not run away from responsibility. I personally know that, just now Minister Sarcevic has changed associates who have not responded to him, i.e. who have not been good at results and have not been good at the Ministry. It can always be better, and this is precisely what Minister Sarcevic and the laws that are still on the agenda, they are a change in the laws that we have already discussed and already talked about, but it just shows that this ministry and this government are adapting to problems, identifying problems and solving them, if it should be every ten days, of course not in a literal sense, but if it is necessary to change, if we have seen some mistakes, we will change them. What I want, without forgetting, I want on behalf of the government, on behalf of the people of Koceljeva, but above all the people of Vladimirs, to thank the home of the student, who stood as Skadar on Bojana, who was finally released to work thanks to this ministry and, of course, the Office for Reconstruction and Development, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Vladimirs will first of all, thanks to the new strength and new people, who at the moment lead the Vladimirs, but among other things, the home and the reinforced and truly recognized high school in Vladimirs, have something to raise them with. On the other hand, the citizens of Koceljeva, with new facilities, sports facilities and halls, tied exactly to schools, as one negative example, is the town of Sabac, from which I come where out of 45 rural local communities, believe it or not, in 42, and you believe of course, there are no feet of water, not a meter of sewage network. Sports facilities, related to school, unfortunately citizens of these villages and these local communities can only dream, but the verdict about how some behave and what they do will, of course, be and will take place in the next election. The citizens will have exactly the opportunity to vote for those they trust and those who bring results, while on the other hand we have people who first threatened hangings in the center, and then they went to the threat of murder. They have just pointed a sniper at our president, and it is their last to put a pipe on the head of the Serbian president and threaten no less or less to the Vukic family. But here's the opportunity for me to take the opportunity to just take a look at them, who in their despair and impotence, because they don't have any politics, they don't have membership, they don't have any support, they don't know what they're going to do anymore, so just look at each other, look in the mirror or take them to look at them, definitely what they're doing, bordering on madness, but everyone does what they think they need to do. There is a host in Serbia, and that is Aleksandar Vukic. In voting day, it is the SNS and SNS MPs who will support these laws and all those laws that will bring positive to Serbia, and all I can say, that is that the future of Serbia depends directly on the Ministry of Education, but also on other laws from the government and on everything that passes through the Assembly and on what the MPs vote or vote in their term. The responsibility for everything we've done is, right at the Ministry, but also on the MPs, who have supported or did not support certain laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68661	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68662	I would like to begin by saying congratulations to all the believers of the Serbian Orthodox Church, who celebrate St John the Baptist. I will start with one quote, our prime minister, Ana Brnabic, who recently said -- Serbia has made a significant step in many fields, but the one in the area of education and reform is so great that it has become one of the leaders in Europe. Thanks to the reforms, students will learn programming languages and we will have generations to enroll in high school with knowledge that was once acquired in colleges. Mr. Minister, your contribution, your ministry's contribution is certainly great at this. I tried to, I think I managed to pull the most important thing out of this set of laws that should make us accept these bill proposals anyway. I'll try to count it soon. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia improves the procedure for the recognition of foreign school and higher education documents, facilitates and speeds up the recognition of documents from 500 of the best-ranked universities, reduces the time period from 90 days to 60 days, and the procedure within the Agency is professionalised. Then, quality assurance measures in the qualification system are improved, including experts from the detention and other competent institutions. Special commissions and expert teams are formed as necessary. Then, descriptors of the level of qualifications with the European are agreed. Through the established secondary resources of the centres, already ten formed in Serbia's cities, personnel will be produced, i.e. a certain type of labour needed by the economy, and will be allowed to continuously improve, i.e. adult education. As far as the bill of stamps is concerned, three of the most important things are. The first is the acquisition and protection of stamps is harmonised with EU rules, a more effective protection system is established in the event of a trade mark injury, and the third is abolished by the Institute of Appeal in order to simplify the procedure. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, in order to ensure a smooth continuation of the establishment of a single information system, the law is aligned with the new Data Protection Act, as regards the keeping of registers and records in education and education, the introduction of a single educational number. The purpose of data processing, data reception and so on. Therefore, a unique information system of education is being established and arranged to include pre-school, primary, secondary education and education, adult education, but also higher education as well as student and student standards. Then, rational planning of resources and future investments is allowed, and some of the provisions that have been introduced are specified, a small number of provisions, which have been inconclusive so far. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education, technical matters are mainly done, the law is brought into line with two laws, the Law on dual secondary education that is already in place, we also apply it to the Law on dual studies that is not yet in place. As the fifth is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Dual Education Act. Cooperation between the education system and the economy is improving here, and thus the development of dual education since school 2020/2021. A year. They define and specify the differences between practical teaching and professional practice, on the one hand and learning through work, on the other. Practical teaching and professional practice defined by the Law on secondary education and education are carried out at school, in the employer, or combined in accordance with the plan and programme of teaching and learning and up to 25%. On the other hand, learning through work has been defined by the Dual Education Act, only takes place in the employer, ranging from 20% to 80% of the professional course fund. State authorities are also involved in the dual education system, and this law includes the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence as employers. For all of this, I call upon all Members of the People to accept these laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68663	The word has a National MP Milanka Vukojičić Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68664	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, before I begin to see if I can only get how much time I have.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68665	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68666	Of course, the SNS will support all laws concerning changes and additions to education laws, as the SNS believes education plus knowledge is the foundation of every successful state. The foundation of every successful country, because education, certainly, is an investment that has a huge impact on the economic progress and development of each country, as well as on the economic progress and development of the Republic of Serbia and directly affects poverty reduction. I would like only to mention this conference held here in Belgrade on 23 December, where the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic was present, where you were present, where 1,500 participants were present and where Aleksandar Vukic, in his address at the conference, said: dual education, knowledge of the future. A dual education focused on protecting the best interests of students, i.e. a young man who needs to acquire knowledge and skills for fast employment, not to wait on the labour market, but to use his knowledge and skills immediately in companies, where he will earn money for his existence, where he will gain seriousness and responsibility, is something he has introduced as prime minister, now Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Of course, that all praises for these changes and additions, because, of course, it is good, it shows that you have followed the implementation of the law, that certain difficulties have been observed and that these difficulties are precisely through these changes and additions will be corrected, and somewhere as a major difficulty, it is that a student who finishes a primary school that will be removed from this bill will now be able to express his wish before passing the final exam and that just those students who want to enroll secondary vocational education in a dual model will have the possibility. For SNS, for our President Alexander Vukic, every child and parent have the right to know in time and which school their child will enroll and of course how much they will be paid for their work tomorrow. What I would also like to say and to commend, and this is about the protection of particularly sensitive and particularly vulnerable groups, I would like to highlight the protection of children of disabled students, where the guidance allows educational workers, the possibility that, with the Interresor Commission's opinion, provides a complete opportunity to master teaching material for these children at full capacity and full scope. I would also, of course, commend the changes that concern blind and weak-sighted faces and the possibility that they might have textbooks on the braided letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68667	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68668	Thank you. May I have your attention, please, it's too late, but let's just hold on, I'll be right back. First of all, I would like to express my regret that today when discussing these laws relating to education, it was bad talk about university professors criticising the work of authorities, which I think is a bad practice and should be avoided in the future. As far as the National Qualifications Framework Act is concerned, it is one pro-European thing, therefore systemic, which should only be accelerated and there is nothing wrong with it. What is the problem, is that academic and labour mobility is our reality today, perhaps to a greater extent than it should be. People are leaving, not just high-skilled, everyone who has a chance to escape from a bad life. So our reality is a brain drain, and that's one question that will torture every next government, and we as some responsible people should try to find solutions to stop these processes. I personally believe that such a negative trend, either in the short term or in the medium term, cannot be fixed, unfortunately, is due to some of the bad decisions that have been led by all the governments and all the statesmen we had in the previous period, to say, more parties, and a lot has been told today about the mistakes of the former government. I have to ask the majority again in this place, why, when you have the judiciary that you say judges for neither the grandmother nor the uncles and the police who are never more effective, and still the people you accuse of bad life are still at large. So either what you're saying isn't true or the state of justice and the police isn't so ideal. All of this is pictured when young people choose whether to go out and design their families there or stay here. When you are a young man who has a chance to move out of the country and when you face the difficulties that are happening in Serbia every day, then his choice at the end of the day is, unfortunately, very easy. Few young people in Serbia see a chance for a better life, and their choice is whether they will stay here in poverty or go somewhere and find a better life. And of course, it's not just education that's the problem that we have a major brain drain from Serbia, it's one complex question, but it can be taken under whether they see hope of staying here or not. So in order to stop young people leaving, we must first and foremost give them both legal and economic security. I think that right now with this kind of economic policy and some of the indicators that have been going on here today, it's, say, a 4.2% loss of GDP in the last quarter of last year, not good indicators, because in order to improve the economic situation, our GDP should be 9.10% on an annual basis, in order to be able to track or get a little closer to developed European countries. So, can you do it in a situation like this? Unfortunately, he can't. What we're doing is the opposite of what SMS stands for, and that's a tax-based discharge of citizens. We are now further taxing the IT sector, these young and professional people, further making things difficult for them, rather than allowing them to just hire themselves here, to employ other young people without going into the world. So we are in this field not competing with Germany or America, but with Croatia, Romania, Georgia, some countries that are in a similar situation as we are. So, as far as some facts are concerned, I also have to mention the National Employment Service, where the statistical reduction of the number of unemployed is affected by the number of people who are constantly evicting and the fact that in the previous years the methodology, which follows this number, has changed. So, according to Minister Slavica Djukic, Serbia was left by 50,000 people, and when compared to NZZ data, it said the number of unemployed in 2017 was 650,500, and in 2018, 580,000. So the population in Serbia changed during that period, where seven million people lived in Serbia in 2017, and a year later that number fell by those 50,000. The NSZ also deletes from the records of those people who do not report to the job they gave him or do not report to the consultations that the service performs. So, apparently, there has been a change in the number of unemployed, but we have to deal with concrete and real numbers and facts. I have a suggestion. So, if instead of detaching from the stadium budget or for the crazy arms race, which we entered with our neighbors, we invested in higher education, so, to fix the programs, to fix November's life, I think we could become someone who could attract foreign students to our country, and we wouldn't have to look for examples too far. We can look at the example of Slovenia, where, for example, students from Europe come not only, but also people from America, or students who flee from higher tuitions and their student loans to study there and continue their lives later on. Also, university reform, i.e. education reform, should not only start from the university, but be one process that monitors and other education. Well, here, today I think we're missing an opportunity to introduce compulsory high school education. So my question is for the minister - why isn't it done, why isn't it on the agenda? Also, what are the obstacles in practice that despite basic education, people fall out of primary education? So, first of all, I think members of the Roma population. According to some of my data, it's the number of thousands of people in Belgrade, I don't know how many in Serbia. So, after they're left on the street to deal with petty crime, which, after they've grown into a bigger one, then we're making ourselves a security problem. I would also refer to your recent statement on the introduction of holograms and high-tech, high-tech technologies in the teaching plan, which, in my opinion, have justifiably caused a mockery among Serbian citizens and become a reason for jokes and infidelity. Why is that? I think it's because we have to face more than 100 schools in Serbia without a toilet, so it's missed to make these basics. Also, those who are lucky enough to have toilets don't have paper, towels, soap. So it's some little thing to start with to improve the position of people in schools. Also, the material status of the Enlightenment is very bad. They are constantly under new obligations, to monitor the individual development of each student, to organise additional teaching, which I don't think is properly paid at the moment. So they must be our goal, their standard of living, because I think they are the real future of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68669	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68670	You're probably not well informed, much of what you've brought out that has absolutely nothing to do with the truth. If you'd listened carefully this time or all the other statements you've also taken into consideration, you might see much invested in the renovation of institutions. So, nearly 1,000 institutions of 2,500 have been completely renovated. It's 40% of the foundation, so, of the walls, of the installations, of the energy efficiency, of everything. No computer system could work in any facility because the wires from the '70s are thin, they don't have enough power. So the evenings are done, so let me say 90 and more since school. And that story, I don't need modern methods until I have no toilets, so maybe somebody doesn't need one. You know, go to China, which is the champion in all of this, first in PIZA, you know you have mountainous areas, villages, where the ground floors are, and there's no electricity still, right there in that China, where you have smart cities and everything. I also said today that you followed here, that Serbia is in eighth place in the world by the justice of education. So the fact that you got the data for the Roma population for primary education is incorrect because they're below 2%. Secondly, the affirmative measures we are introducing, where we receive both money and assistance from the EU, are now the last time we get 27.4m euros and they produce results. In particular, a lot of attention is being taken to not being a girl first, because of earlier marriages and all that, raising the number of Roma students in high school and high school, and trust me, I'll give you the information, I don't know by heart, but you can see on the Ministry's website, the number of Roma children is being doubled. Of course, this isn't the end of the process, but go to any European country. I spoke to the Hungarian minister, they are EU members when Slovenia has since 2004 and have the same problem if not more. Switzerland had a 15% drop out from basic to secondary education, Spain too. They don't like kids to learn. We have measures and dual and whoever doesn't like it and the affirmative measures towards the Roma reduced it to 5%. So the coverage of children in Serbia's secondary schools is 95% without the introduction of short cycles. Most countries did it by introducing two-year-olds. We have them in law, we haven't let them in practice yet. All that results. Trust me. Come to my office, you'll hear the story of strategy, the exact details of everything. I'm sorry, I haven't been a minister in 30 years, and I can't answer for the trouble this country has had or the ignorance or the unpreparedness. The priority of the Ministry of Education is looking for this area. We didn't get it at full capacity, but much more than anyone before us. And we know what we're doing. You'll be familiar with all the papers that are being made. In order for secondary education to be considered mandatory, it must change the Constitution, because the Constitution says basic education is mandatory and free, medium to be free. You don't pay your tuition for free, no matter what anyone else thinks should be. Give me a hand with what's left of the question. When it comes to internationalization, it's a topic I've started. We've done catalogs, electronics, printed. It works together with us and the Tempus Foundation. We entered the ERAZMUS program, as an equal country... in "Cerne", means an equal country with 23 in the world alone. I'm going to Tokyo on the 28th right after the Worlds Academy and we're going to be the 13th country with bilateral cooperation in science with Japan. So we're not cat cough, believe me. We already have America, China, Korea, etc. But those are steps of seven miles. It's not what it was. We work to restore quality higher education and as an export product, to strengthen our higher education. We have 27 accredited classes in English at our universities. Belgrade is ahead of Ljubljana. And they made great mistakes, both them and the Hungarians. Bring in the Iranians or bring in the Tibetans, they catch and run. It was a migrant wave. They didn't achieve that kind of quality. We do it more thoroughly. Belgrade used to have 30,000 foreign students when I was in college. We've barely got about 1,000 now. We increased the number of foreign students through a university project in Serbia from 50 to 200, I received a promise to 1,000 next year. Infrastructure, just to tell you that the state cares. After 50 years, no new colleges. It's FON. It'll start, money separately, from old loans. CEBAS's new loan, which I have now signed, has 95m euros. It's not just to raise. You have to prove to the Bank of the Council of Europe that it's an innovation in higher education. Recently last week, we had the last session on the smart specialisation strategy, which involves exactly new innovation programmes in higher education. There are four big topics. It's food for the future, machines for the future, ICT and creative industries. As you can see, we're raising two new campuses from four colleges, both in New Belgrade, and ideas have already been done, major projects are being done. They're by means of CEBAS. It's coming next year. FON's starting this year's construction. In this same project is the ETF, the new ETF building, next to the existing building with architecture and construction, where they have 12,000 square meters, they get a new 10. It's that yard right there in between, and it's going to give one floor of architecture and construction, so that they're going to be smitten with each other. There's a new building of mathematical reinforcements at the University of Stardust, where they've already got one building. It is a renovation in Belgrade of the Faculty of Construction, Architecture, Technology, Machine and Building PMF, near the Student Square, which have completely failed. There is a new building of music, new Faculty of Music and Art, applied art. The Faculty of Fine Arts is being completed in Senjak, with what they want. In Kragujevac, it's a school of philology-art. Two buildings are built in Nis, one in the PMF is an additional nine laboratories in 7,000 squares and 7,000 squares already ending at the Faculty of Electronics. So it's done. We're talking 95 million euros. It's the first time he's invested in it in 50 years. I'd like people in Serbia to hear this. This isn't a fantasy, this is the truth. An additional story is 32m euros. I forgot to say, there's a reconstruction of technology in Novi Sad and there's a lot of things going on and on and on and on. To be able to receive foreign students, we don't have resources, we don't have enough student standards. So 32 million is just for that now. And we have grants on the budget this year to boost for other regions as well. To get students from North Africa, they're asking that part of the teaching module be in France. We do modules in German and Spanish. This hasn't been done in decades. We have something to offer, but to build the infrastructure, we did it with a M.P. student visa, which was a problem. With the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I've approved ten fairs this year where programs will be presented. The programme is called "Study in Serbia". Eighty-six embassies in Serbia that we have as target groups are very interested. Serbia's government has lifted visas from many countries potentially that could study here. The company that's going to be working with us is also doing this very story you're talking about. He works robots for education, humanoids, for absolutely new technologies. For information yours and others recently, now 20 days ago, the students of FTN in Novi Sad and the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad won first place in China around new learning platforms precisely these new technologies. If it really is chalk, the board is great. At least it's important for me to laugh at Minister Sarčević. They laughed at me when I said we were going to program robots, that information would be required. Nobody laughs anymore. Right? We said drones after Estonia three months, one divided into the first 30 schools. That's not funny anymore either. Right? So why should our children be bored teaching, not modern school? Children in Finland, Estonia, Ireland and some other countries have the privilege of learning. Let's do it once in that first car where it can happen. That's how I look. It's my goal, too, to be criticized for it, but you'll see a great deal of equipment at the Santa's center. We signed the contract a new year ago. Such a center is built in Novi Sad and Triestenik. It's phase one. The second stage is the development centre, not to say the low-paying industries are coming. At this center, 120 doctors will work on the science of engineers in the field of artificial intelligence. A strategy of artificial intelligence was adopted at the government. The Science Fund has issued a call for a minimum of 24 grants, the grant of 200,000. If they're smaller, they'll be more for artificial intelligence. So nothing's wrong with that, but people either don't want to see or they're reluctant or they don't like what this side does. I don't see a second thought, really every comment you make, and the question you can get in my office in detail. I held a press conference last week, but people don't like to hear it. We're talking about prom. They say it's good, but it can't be in two years. Yeah, but three years we've been doing those two, that's five years. He says it won't be high. Well, we work high. So we can go on forever. I don't know how long nihilism in Serbia can be against its children. I'm doing this in the interest of students, students, young people in Serbia, and I don't care who's laughing. She's got a folk who laughs last, I guess she's the cutest.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68671	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68672	I thank the chairman, friends and comrades, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister, it is clear that you have been in education for a long time, working directly, because this is a short lecture from these 11.5 minutes is not just a cross-section of today's debate in the Assembly that obviously someone who has not passed a homework or doesn't understand and unparticises well enough his environment and the state in which he lives can seriously help if he hears him seriously and thinks about him realizing that this is, after all, 20 January 2012, not 20 January 2012. Serbia will continue to raise its economic stability. It must continue to strengthen the military because we said we wanted to be a country of war neutral, not to depend on anyone. If it hadn't been done in the previous eight years, that what was left was to follow us after 2012 that they had worked before, they probably wouldn't have talked about anything else today but probably just how to distribute humanitarian aid and how Serbian citizens could survive without work, without health care, without being able to school. Luckily, it's not like that. Not everything is ideal today, but compared to 2012 far, far better. If nothing else in Serbia is a few hundred thousand jobs open. The number of jobs that have ceased to exist from 2012 to today can be counted on the fingers. Serbian citizens have a much bigger choice when it comes to work, and when it comes to schooling, there is only so much to talk about. The return of good old values where work and honesty are valued above all is something that is part of your ministry's work. What I want to draw attention to, with the maximum support and this set of laws, as well as all those laws that you have previously proposed in this house, is that you need to introduce another serious category when it comes to teachers, teachers, teachers, and especially now when it is an opportunity to establish a permanent working relationship, given these events that are. And that's how many of them love the job they do. I don't know how you're gonna do that. Whether external evaluation will be sufficient for such a thing, but all of us older or more know that just because our teachers, our teachers, our teachers, our teachers, loved first of all the interest they had in us was the basic thing that was our support that as much as possible, the better we go through school days, learn something and hope to become correct and good people who know that they appreciate work and honesty. This is a serious task that awaits you obviously in the very near future, in the coming days and I have to tell you how well you read people who like to do their job and they are rewarded for their love for education and for students to whom knowledge is passed, the future of Serbia depends. The choice isn't easy. Even though there's nothing we can do to help, we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68673	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68674	I won't be long to make it to glory. I must say for the sake of my fellow educators, I do not experience myself but one among them or the first among the equal. I loved it and I love it now and if you asked me that famous question like that -- yes, again, I would. And I know a lot of people like that who, under the worst circumstances, did the same thing. I was a young school director, 32, 33, and I remember when she was paid at the time of Ante Markovic 1000 and some marks. The next year, there were two, three, five marks and the one who worked well, doing well for both 1200 and five, and whoever was doing bad, equally bad for the same money, small or large. What's so important? He who works in education must love work. He must love it. There's no other way to do that. How can he perform an educational function if he doesn't like children and a job in education? It's incompatible to me. It's been a long time since they've been waiting to get any expressions. I have great confidence in the government, which is why I'm part of it, because five increases were made. We're waiting for the pay grade. They are designed so that any good teacher and participant in the process can expect to be seen and progress. Then those tools should come. On the one hand, I respect the enthusiasm and romance that exists, and on the other hand I respect some managerial professionalism. So the pat on the shoulder, but the outside motivation is also a miracle. When you make a system that from the outcome of learning your candidate and forecasts and independent evaluations and what we introduce, as an external assessment exists, it depends on how much each institution will get calling higher categories. So they'll choose a director who can lead them to a better goal. He won't choose him because he'll promise them he'll hate them, as it has been so far and where he is now. I'm going back to a colleague from Capca who stole seven million from Serbia's budget, is that allowed? You've got a real one from a woman's star, and there's 14 pages, inspection and what's been broken by the law. Then you're talking about that same Serbia, other things. I like to lead the controversy when I'm allowed, with arguments. There is absolute evidence behind each sentence, we mention a strategy based on an excellent action plan and it is important to implement it. I think that both educational workers and children in Serbia deserve to be looked at in other eyes. Once again, please look at the billboards across Belgrade and other cities, there you will see Serbia's successful students.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-20-0.u68675	Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 8 of the agenda. We'd be done with this today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 19.25.]]
