ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the twenty-fourth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next Members of Parliament, no one has reported it. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with a session of the twenty-fourth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 158 MPs, has been sent to you to hold an extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the twenty-fourth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, the following is set: List of candidates for a member of the Board of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. We're going to work on the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on the list of candidates for a member of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Does the rapporteur of the board of directors, MP Mirko Krlić, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71298	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, in order to be more effective in telling you what I need to say on behalf of the Committee, I will read it, because there are a lot of data very important as far as the procedure is concerned. I will brief you on the process of proposing candidates for the selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which has been implemented by the Committee on Culture and Information. First of all, I remind you of the fact that then members of the REM Council Goran Pekovic and Djordje Bozarevic resigned to the post. Article 15. The Law on Electronic Media stipulates that the mandate of a member of the Council ceases, among other things, by resigning to the National Assembly in writing, in which case the term of office of a member of the Council in fact ceases by resigning itself. Acting in accordance with Article 10(1) The law stipulating that the National Assembly's competent service publishes a public invitation to propose a candidate for a member of the Council no later than 15 days from the date of the resignation of the National Assembly in writing form, the Committee decided at its session held on 22 January 2020 to launch a procedure for proposing candidates for the selection of members of the Board of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. The Committee also found that the right to propose candidates is authorised by proposing, the competent committee of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the Association of Electronic Media Issuers, the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia. Since these are members of the REM Council, who have been elected on their proposal in fact to resign and that is how the law rules. I point out that, acting at point 5. Decisions and in accordance with Article 10(1) The Law on Electronic Media, the text of a public invitation to propose candidates for the selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, published on 22 January 2020 in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, and on 23 January of the same year, on the National Assembly's website and on the daily "Politika". On the basis of Article 10(2), The Law on Electronic Media, the authorising officer, has a 15-day deadline, i.e. until 7 February, to submit to the Committee a proposal for a candidate for the REM Council, which must be reasoned. The proposal for two candidates for the REM Council to be elected on a proposal from the competent committee, i.e. the Committee on Culture and Information of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, was submitted within the legal deadline on Wednesday 5 February 2020. Candidates Slobodan Cvejic and Slavisa Grujic were proposed. As for the proposal of the Association of Electronic Media Issuers, the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, they submitted their proposals to the following associations: Radio-Difusion Group, the Association for Creative Industry of the PKS, which were proposed by Jakša Šcekić as a member. The Association of Electronic Media of Serbia COMNET proposed as a member by Aleksandar Simic, the Association of Journalists of Vojvodina who proposed Biljana Ratkovic Zvanin and the Association of Journalists of Serbia proposed by Visnja Arangelovic. At a session held on 10 February, the Committee discussed all submitted proposals for candidates as well as the evidence annexed to the proposals, concluded that all candidates and organisations who submitted the application meet the conditions laid down in the Electronic Media Act, so that it is based on Article 10(5). The Law on Electronic Media establishes a list of candidates as well as a list of organisations that together make up a single mandated proposal of the REM Council. Also, this list is published on the National Assembly website. In view of the fact that electronic media publishing associations, journalists' associations in the Republic of Serbia proposed a total of four candidates, it was necessary for the Committee to set a date for the Association meeting to be held in order to establish a joint proposal for a REM member. The Committee did so by calling on all associations to attend a meeting held on February 10, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. at the home of the National Assembly. The invitation to attend the meeting was answered by all associations that authorised one of their representatives who attended this meeting and represented them when establishing the final proposal of two candidates for REM members. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that electronic media publishing associations, journalists' associations in the Republic of Serbia, have set out a final proposal for two candidates for REM Council members by agreement. There is also a possibility of revote, but within a very short time, an agreement has taken place that has made the work easier for the Committee itself. Associations have proposed Biljana Ratkovic Krajina and Višnja Arangelovic as candidates for their REM members. Circumstances and if this is not legally envisaged, gender equality has been fulfilled, so that we have two candidates and two candidates and I am truly pleased that we have also met REM to be gender-equal. I note that at a session held on 11 February 2020, the Committee held a public conversation with all proposed candidates for REM Council members, namely candidates who have both authorised applicants proposed pursuant to Article 11 of Article 8. The law. At this session, the candidates had the opportunity to present themselves while all the members of the Committee as well as other interested MPs had the opportunity to ask candidates questions related to their professional experience, work in the profession, that is, how they see their future work in the REM Council. What I have to say in particular, at the very end, is that really in the selection of these candidates, so I can say to all the candidates and those who haven't crossed the first round, we have really had extraordinary biographies and I can tell you, I don't know which direction the debate is going to go today, but whoever is elected by these candidates meets all the conditions and these are also with their biographies, and people who know the situation in the media and know what kind of personalities they're dealing with, I'm sure they can confirm. I also want to tell you, and if some MPs don't like it sometimes, we had a request from CESID to attend our session and of course we approved that request and CESID had no objection to the procedure. He even confirmed it on his website. As we are in this Committee configuration, I am afraid close to the end, because we have done all our tasks, I do not know if there will be any more opportunities and more meetings of the Committee on Culture and Information, I just want to thank the President of the Assembly and the president of our parliamentary group who proposed me to this function first. It has really been an honor and pride to chair the Committee with people who have done their best as members, and it has really helped me to do this job in the best way that has caused a lot of controversy in the public, especially this job of electing REM members, as well as other tasks that were ahead of us. I thank the MPs who have almost always held 39 sessions. There were, of course, several MPs from the opposition and other MPs who attended the meetings of the Committee on Culture and Information and contributed to all the debates so far. Thank you again, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71299	Thank you. I ask the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to come forward, those who intend to speak. That means no one wants to. I can switch to the list. MPs, I don't know if you've heard me, but I'm asking if any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or representatives would like to speak? The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71300	Thank you, Chairman. Today we choose two missing, or replaced members of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulators and at the session and this occasion I want to highlight some of the principles when it comes to the media. The freedom of the media is crucial to the development of democracy, and the electronic media regulator is the body that needs to ensure that the media performs their important social role. The right of citizens to complete, timely and true information is guaranteed by the Constitution, and the journalistic profession of democracy develops through professional, objective and relevant information. At least that's what it's supposed to look like. The freedom of the media is not, when not one side of you have state media controlled by authorities favoring power, and then you try to establish private media so that the other side has its propaganda voice. It's not freedom of the media and it's not information, it's propaganda. And our society should also know that citizens feel the difference. In our society, otherwise very little information, almost everything is just propaganda, unfortunately. One of the major delusions of our society is that private media have the right to more free application of rules and professional principles, because public information is an activity of public interest, and therefore the obligation to adhere to the law equally applies to all media regardless of property, private or state, domestic or abroad. If laws prescribe the application of professional standards, it must apply equally in both competition and private and state media. And these are principles which unfortunately Serbian society and the Serbian market provide media services, the Serbian-media market does not adhere to. The elections in Serbia have largely become a media advertising business, and we have campaigns, whose values exceed seven, eightm euros each, where over fivem euros go to advertising. I will ask the chairman to try to calm down fellow MPs, turn off their cell phones. Thank you. So, we have election campaigns worth more than 7.8m euros in Serbia, where five, sixm euros each go for advertising, and of which, on televisions with national frequencies, and these election campaigns, are a major source of media business income in Serbia and the rail policy and the media is only hardening this big money. It is in full conflict with the above-mentioned principles of freedom of the media and it is destroying and jeopardising Serbian democracy. This, unfortunately, is neither a newspaper nor a specificity of the current government, we had it back all 30 years, because no Serbian government is willing to control its desire for power and will not cultivate mechanisms that prevent the sovereignty of the current or some future government in Serbia, so no Serbian government will voluntarily give up influence on the media or voluntarily achieve true independence of the judiciary or truly suppress corruption. What remains in this struggle as citizens and what can help us are the experiences of European developed democracies that have long cured both the pressure from the outside and from the inside and from the citizens. The modern-day Serbian party has proposed in a pre-election dialogue with the European Parliament's intervention to open a debate on several issues concerning financing political activities, especially when it comes to the media, then primarily in the area of advertising costs. We proposed that commercial advertising be banned and campaign costs limited, to prevent the election campaign from being a competition for the rich with the poor in spending. Neither current nor former government is proposed, of course, responding, and both of them have the interest to actually be a festival of money spending, public money, money from the budget, money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, these issues remained for post-election phases of the dialogue that will be held after the upcoming elections, of course, with the intervention of the European Parliament, which is crucial, because we ourselves cannot and do not want to settle these issues. This is only part of the issue of Serbia's political electoral and media system that needs to be further edited, and why it hasn't hurt political will in 30 years. On these proposals, I would add one more thing, it's the same thing we expect from the Council of the Electronic Media Regulators and its members, who today we choose to make their own professional contribution, which is a proposal to prescribe the right to declared election lists for free advertising during the campaign. I have already stated that there are good examples in the practices of developed European democracies and that this is something we can count on in winning and defending media and all other freedoms. Therefore, that advertising of electoral participants should not be a commercial matter with limited budgets and bassological spending and waste of money, but that public services and private media service providers are required to assign free advertising space to electoral participants and, of course, to the benefit of private money. We have something like that in Germany. For example, according to Article 7 of the National Law on Broadcasting, political advertising and advertising is prohibited except in the election campaign, and all public services are specifically, except Radio Bremen, Berliner Branderburg and... , they are required to set time for election advertising for free. With regard to public frequency broadcasters, let's say, the ZDF is required to do so under Article 11 of the special law and must also provide free time for political advertising, declared electoral lists and candidates, in elections for the Bundestag and in elections for, say, the European Parliament. The broadcaster within the ARD network is obliged to do the same by its local regulations, and the legal obligation to allow free advertising also refers to elections for the local parliament and refers to private broadcasters that are later provided by the budget, for time-provided advertising. All German regulations, for example, prohibit the publication of turnout on the day of the vote before the vote is closed for all election levels. The opinion poll can be published, but with a mandatory indication of representativeness and they are obliged to document that the polls they publish are really representative, they are obliged to verify the accuracy of their own comments on the elections and stress on the screen that it is about editorial views. I know that many will say that Serbia is not Germany, that things can't just be copied from there, but that's, how can I tell you, all excuses, such as excuses and delusions, that the EU will fall apart, that we have far-fetched concerns, Bregzita and so on, that the Brussels bureaucracy is holding us back, and that we've done everything that's right next to us, and we're not even close. When it comes to candidates, I would refer specifically to the candidate for membership at the REM Council, proposed by the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina. Namely, the cameras of TV Novi Sad, Slavi Grujic, who is one of the two candidates, in December 1989, made a real reporting masterpiece in Temisvar, when they went live to CNN and visited the world. This is what makes a difference between media workers and others, because free media is also important for citizens to get accurate information, how Serbian and Romanian states and Serbian and Romanian society have been developing since then. In 2001. Serbia and Romania had equal GDP per capita. Today, this important indicator of the country's economic development in Romania is almost twice as big as in Serbia. So almost twice as big as in Serbia! It is the price that Serbian society pays for all its policies of national delusions in the past decades, and that is the exact information citizens should hear when they are told that the Serbian economy is the "Balkan Economic Tiger" which has the highest growth rates in Europe, because these data are simply not accurate. The correct data is that in 20 years Romania has achieved GDP per capita, twice the size of Serbia, and that 20 years ago we were on this economic parameter at the same level. This is the correct information and it is the free media that needs to be passed on to citizens and that is what we expect to be the goal in the work of the REM Council members that we will choose today. The modern Serbian party will support candidate Slavisa Grujic, who was proposed by the AP Vojvodina's competent authority for the seat in the REM Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71301	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Natasa Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71302	Thank you, Chairman. As authorized in this first report, I'll be very brief. I would just like to repeat once again that today's election by two members of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body, the ruling coalition once again very clearly shows its willingness and determination to responsibly do what is up to it when it comes to improving electoral conditions, not just the law concerning elections, but to come out to meet what was the main grudge, which is the work of REM and missing members, we did it at one of the previous sessions. These two members we choose today are candidates after two members have resigned on their own request. It was one of the requirements during the inter-party talks with the intervention of MEPs. It is very important that we repeat and recognise the willingness and responsibility of the parliamentary majority to improve REM's work in terms of the election of all members. It is also important to note for the public that the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media could make decisions requiring a two-thirds majority, even when there were six. Of course, it's better for such an independent body to work fully. The completion of this process is fully and enabled, and whether REM will do better depends solely on the REM members, the law on their responsibilities and what their job is is very clear. It is up to them to fully respect all that the law gives them as such. What may be objective inabilitys that the law did not recognise will be resolved in a future conference, since a new media strategy has been adopted, which means that the new assembly will change very quickly and a set of media laws so that media laws are fully in line with the new media strategy. The media strategy, and changes and additions to the Media Law, are also another indicator of the speed of media reforms since in 2014, we passed media laws for the first time fully in line with EU standards. The new strategy is just another space and the possibility to improve these laws by respecting everything that practice has shown as a real space for improvement in line with the development of the area, but also development in general. I'm going to do it again in this place, and I'm going to lean on a colleague who spoke before me. The reform of the media sphere in Serbia since 2000 has been slow and with a number of problems that have followed and made laws and its application authorities have refused to give up both formal and informal mechanisms of control over the media, it is the truth and fact that we have to repeat, not only to show the difference in the past time, but also because it is known that we have a short memory, and then when everything we haven't done when the time was back as a boomerang, then we wonder how and what happened and suddenly REM is a problem. No, REM is a problem from the very beginning. So there was an absolute unwillingness in the work to regulate the media scene and comply with European standards, and in the interests of the public. I will remind you once again, I often repeat this in plenary, but also at the meetings of the Committee on Culture and Information whose member I am, that the Law on Broadcasting, which practically introduced an independent regulatory body in the field of broadcasting was adopted in 2002, had been changed four times by 2009, and that practically the Republic Broadcasting Agency was then, and today the regulator of electronic media, in fact started working during 2005, after two amendments to the law. Thus, the lack of adequate legal regulation has enabled both political and financial abuse of media space and smooth broadcasting of inadequate media content. Only in 2009, it began to work as a professional service for analysis and supervision within the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We were very late in the process of Eurointegration in the media area. This adds to the fact that only in 2010, in June, the Law on Electronic Communications was adopted in line with the 2002 EU Regulation. Is there anything else to say about that, then, with eight years of delay? As I said, on REM members, it is entirely independent and in line with the best interests of the public and their professional willingnesss and skills do the best work. We also adopted the financial plan and the report for the work of the regulatory body yesterday. So, all the absolute conditions that were legal, the legal obligation of ours, are here. It is up to REM to show willingness on its part, and, as I said, we adopted the Financial Plan and the Report of the Regulator for Electronic Media, I will once again point to, too, one fact that does not contribute to the way REM has worked so far. Members of the REM Council, not only one member, women behind whom the other members are hiding, but also the chairman of the Board of Regulators must communicate more with citizens and with the public and explain what are the competences of the regulators, which are not, what can and must be done so that we can also promote legislation together. Therefore, REM members must communicate more with citizens and explain to the public what the public resents as an insufficiently good way of working. I still have time as authorized, but I think it's enough to start. During the principle debate, I will also talk about the work of REM and the selection of two members. Of the four candidates, we're going to pick two, so for this first report, the exposure would be so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71303	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71304	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, today on the agenda we have a choice of two new REM members. What we all expect from that is that REM starts working in a different way than he did in the previous period. As they say in politics, not everything is exactly what it looks like, but usually slightly different, we from the Socialist Movement have had the view that Gilas, Šolak and this company have been attacking REM since August of the month very intensely and before that, just for that reason only because the composition of REM was absolutely appropriate to them. The electronic media regulator who kept quiet, hung on to cable operators' behavior, primarily I think of SBB, the work of the so-called. And we call them quasi-cross-border televisions is something that could have been just and exclusively in the interest of that group. Probably according to the old one: "If Vlasi hadn't figured it out," then they started attacking REM, and in fact REM was doing so badly in the previous period that it was only to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and only to the harm of national televisions, national media that were properly registered in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia paying taxes. The fact is that it is never good that one body does not have its full composition and what it has been, so to speak, the obligation of this Parliament, which and through the talks that were held in the autumn to improve electoral conditions, was fulfilled in December of the month, and that was that, based on the proposal of authorised promoters, it was filled up to a full number. Now the need to refill the required number because of the resignations. If I'm not mistaken, now, after the resignations that were filed, we're burned at number seven. So, again, we don't have REM in full composition until we decide what to do with the proposals that are on the agenda today. So REM may seem to someone and sounds like an agency that is not so important, which is not so important, but I have to say that it is extremely important and the key role of REM is when it comes to the way TV works and what cable operators in the Republic of Serbia are doing. It does not matter whether certain quasi-cross-border televisions, which continue to, in my deep belief, work completely illegally in the Republic of Serbia, because one simple thing, which is absolutely logical to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is simple and clear to every lawyer in the Republic of Serbia, that there can be no re-emission if there is no broadcasting. I will remind you that the international convention taken over by the Republic of Serbia implies the possibility of re-emissioning a programme completely unchanged in one of the EU countries. It's just not the case here. So, the N1 television programme, which via the SBB, places the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, does not broadcast such a programme any more, except in the Republic of Serbia. The large parliamentary issues raised from this home and when the line is drawn, we could come to the following conclusions: N1 television is registered in Luxembourg, there is nothing happening around these programmes, nor are they concluded, nor are they produced, nor are they broadcast in Luxembourg. They have some of their own called exposures, which are repacked as a programme in Slovenia, where there are three types of programmes and they form three types of programmes for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the BiH area and, if I am not mistaken, for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This means that a programme that is placed through SBB for Serbian citizens by quasi-border television, nowhere but in the Republic of Serbia, is available to any of the EU viewers. I really don't understand this lack of coordination between the competent state authorities, or I should even attribute it to some of the answers we received from REM. Of course REM doesn't need to protect domestics at all costs, so to speak, television and media. Of course, it doesn't need to protect them more than what the law expects from REM, but in no case should the question of re-emitting and try to bring it down to a technical question instead of a legal issue. One of the answers that came to us from REM, and the right to tell you to me is that as a lawyer in a variety of procedures much clearer why it was done, says that it is enough for re-emission to send the signal back to Slovenia and from Slovenia and that it is then about re-emissioning. Nor can we determine whether this signal has ever walked back and forth to Slovenia at all, nor can it affect the legal status and definition of broadcasting and re-emission as conditions that this television can work the way it works in the Republic of Serbia. That not only she, but "N sport" and other channels from Istria, from the same group, are working on the damages of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, says precisely that such or such quasi cross-border television, unlike all national operators and all domestic media, are not obliged to submit a report on the number of advertisements they broadcast, are not obliged to take care of the number of advertisements they broadcast, and all domestic national televisions are controlled strictly and supervised by REM, which should be, and I agree with that. But it is inadmissible that REM grumbles and allows someone who is being led as a loser in Serbia, which may be more and more at the moment a tax administration issue, a huge money source from the Republic of Serbia, a cable operator to ousts into Luxembourg, and the N1 TV here is being run as a loser in all its reports and what is even more dangerous in business is using someone else's PIB when it gives its data. No one has ever done anything serious to get rid of this. Is this what the REM's attitude contributed to? I can indeed attribute to them a serious part of the responsibility that they are deluding the competent state authorities with their views and protecting illegal business against the damage of citizens of the Republic of Serbia by quasi-border television. If anyone thinks I have anything personal against N1 television, believe me, I'm not even in a position to watch their program, so I really don't care what they're doing or whether they're criticizing or not, what they're saying about any of us, how they're reporting. It's their right. But to work illegally on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that's something that is absolutely touching me as a citizen of this country. We were asking questions here and some other questions that we didn't get an answer to, and the question was that we came to the data that it happened that "Telecoms" cables were suddenly cut off, stopped working, were unable to distribute the signal to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to their subscribers, and that very quickly they arrived at these positions SBB representatives, offered their services, explicitly set up lines. And behold, by some miracle, during that period, the people who were in charge of this type of business became SBB workers. We talked about it in this house. I remind you of that again. I remind all state authorities who are obliged to keep this in mind that this knowledge of them is also a formal and legal criminal application or application which they are required to investigate, by the Ministry of Public Prosecutors, Tax Administrations, etc. Let's get back to REM. I think we've established a way of working, the behavior of REM, and I don't want this to be interpreted any other way, but I really have to realize that this is happening in the Republic of Serbia. All of these agencies and independent bodies chosen by the Assembly and where those working in those regulatory bodies are paid three or four times more than ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, about MPs not to speak, very quickly execute the compass in time and space. Do they think that because they're so much cheaper that they've become some kind of force? No, they're not. It is not the time, because the elections are ahead of us, it is evident that EU representatives, led by Tanja Fajon, are in any way seeking to create a position for the elections in Serbia to be declared illegal or at least illegal after implementation and to be a kind of additional pressure on the government, which is formed after these elections. Therefore, it may not be this moment to think about a serious change in legal prerogatives, which determine the work of REM, their choice, and above all control over the work of REM and the possibilities for their shift and resolution from the highest home in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. increasing the powers of the Republic Assembly and facilitating the procedure for REM members or the complete REM if it does not work in the interests of citizens, of course it cannot be just a whim of the Assembly at some point. There should be very well qualified conditions to avoid any imbalance, but it is unacceptable that those chosen by parliament become almost untouchable, no matter what they do or how they do. I must say that they did not work in line with the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they did not fulfil their legal obligations in the way I think they are obliged to do so. To be honest, we will support the committee's proposal, respecting their position, because I believe that there has been an appropriate evaluation among the proposed candidates, which they will propose, at the very end, for the election, by respecting the procedure that this Assembly has brought. But I'm seriously afraid that neither this choice of the new two REM members will improve REM's work and that some new assembly of the Assembly, after the elections have been completed, has to take one of the priority things into work, which is that the legislative regulations regarding REM work and the changeability are easier, in case they do not work properly when REM is involved, provide and enable. Frankly, I personally am sick of these combinations, marifetteluka, muttering in front of quasi-European directives, and only to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71305	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71306	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, there is no disputed support when it comes to election for REM members, because I believe that the Committee, the Committee President and the Committee members have been responsible and serious about their part of the work and respected the procedure and that the proposed members will certainly have the support of the SPS parliamentary group. When it comes to legislative legislation, which is referred to by my colleague Komlenski, we agree in the most part, and we believe that this must and should be a priority, when it comes to some future assembly meeting. What I want to say today, and it is about REM, is about the media in Serbia, so I think that for several months back in Serbia, one hash and hysteria that has been directed from one part of the opposition towards REM. The reason is, above all, the lack of political ideas, no political programme, no concrete political programme, but the fundamental reason is the need to go back eight years and edit, to deal with the editorial policy of the media in Serbia, when only one opinion could be heard. When we talk about REM, in this regard, I seem to forget the essential and fundamental thing, which is that as representatives of political parties, parliamentary groups, as MPs, as someone who has the legitimacy and trust of citizens and who has received the mandate from citizens to do one responsible and serious job, we need to help us work independent regulatory bodies, strengthen and strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies, not to push independent and regulatory bodies into the political ring and use them for their own needs and for their own purposes. Our job, therefore, is to support REM in what is most important, to work under the law, not to interpret the laws as it suits each individual and to ask and to insist specifically on REM to violate those same laws. The electronic media regulatory body is not a political entity, REM is not a participant in parliamentary or any other elections, nor any political processes, nor REM can decide who will win, nor who will lose in the next parliamentary elections. There is no REM obligation to follow the elections in Serbia, and I think that, that is, I am fully convinced that this is not defined in any legal framework, correct me, Committee President, if I am mistaken, but by order, of course, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by order of the OSCE, by order of the ODIR this time will follow the entire election campaign. It is interesting that for several months now, the Faculty of Political Sciences has also been discussing REM during talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences, but also in the framework of inter-party dialogue, without anyone talking to REM. Only a few days ago, therefore, when the whole story is over and certain decisions have been made, when certain recommendations have been adopted, after the inter-party dialogue and after the talks we had at the Faculty of Political Sciences, we have a situation for a number of European parliamentarians to visit REM. European parliamentarians visited REM and talked about how, I will remind you, there are two parallel countries, two parallel institutions and parallel media. Well, how is it there's no freedom of the media in Serbia if there's some kind of parallel media? I will remind you, these are the same European parliamentarians who have expressed concern about democracy in Serbia, about the freedom of the media in Serbia and we have made it very clear to them – there is no need to worry about democracy in Serbia, democracy is being held in elections and only elections can change Serbia's political course, and we all have done everything together in our power to have far better electoral conditions than those we have had since 2008. As for freedom of the media, you know, it is a bit hypocritical that any European parliamentarian today speaks about freedom of the media, and in 2011, when we had a report by Verica Barac, in which it is very precise, explicitly defined and said that there is serious concern about the freedom of the media in Serbia, we have heard no European Parliamentarian. That's what I asked Mrs. Fajon, she tells me she wasn't a reporter at the time, but she was a representative of the European Parliament. At least then she could say something about freedom of the media in Serbia. Otherwise, who today, when we talk about that part of the opposition, deals with freedom of the media in Serbia, who is asking whether there is freedom of the media in Serbia? In fact, as they are not interested in the election, because the boycott is all they have left, they know that the elections have been lost in advance and that they cannot represent an alternative to the ruling coalition, so they are not even interested in the freedom of the media in Serbia. They are interested just enough to make it a condition and reason not to appear and go to parliamentary elections. The highlight of the farce is that the freedom of the media is dealt with precisely by those whose political supporters physically rebelled against journalists for only one reason, because journalists were asking questions that did not suit them, the same representatives of that part of the opposition who threw journalists out of a press conference because their presence did not suit them. Were these the same ones who illegally owned the tabloids and who, through their marketing agencies, were blackmailing the media, earning every second of national television, or television with a national frequency? Are these the same ones who sent the police to the newspaper who published something about their misdemeanors during the period when they had responsibility and most of the government in Serbia? The same ones in whose time you couldn't hear absolutely any different opinion except theirs. Are these the ones who sent very clear messages about who should be a guest on information shows at public service and how should these same emissions be arranged, which the RTS editors have done with a motor saw? The same ones that blocked everything are approaching, actually entering the Public Service. Those who have just so much courage not to answer a journalist's question or to come to REM and say just one thing – we want you to shut down TV Pink, we want the main and responsible editors of certain daily papers arrested. Now I'm asking why? Because they think different from them, because they bring out what's true in Serbia? Well, I guess the truth is the interest of all of us. There will be no history in Serbia when we talk about the media again in its worst form. Freedom of opinion, freedom of speech and freedom of expression are the basic postulates of a democratic society as Serbia today is. It is not true that they are engaged in the freedom of the media because they care about the freedom of the media, because they care about participating in parliamentary elections. They're dealing with the freedom of the media for one simple reason, to have their own people in REM, to have their own people in RTS. And all the time that during the inter-party dialogue and talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences, at least in the part where they participated, we talked about the media, we talked about REM, we talked about RTS, that was the only goal. When they say -- we're not in the media, I just want to get a few data. So, the data is tied up and these are relevant factual data until December last year, which deny the finding by individual representatives of the opposition that they are not present in the media, 135 pages of press clipping in the last six months, as of December last year, deny that this part of the opposition is not represented in the Public Service. Each protest "one out of five million" reported RTS on all information shows. From a journalistic angle, that every week is reported an event where there is absolutely nothing new, there are no new demands, there are a large number of journalists among MPs here, so tell me if it's news, when you don't have any new demands, when there are fewer and fewer people? If it were ten times as many people, if it were new demands, it'd probably be news. In all debate shows, opposition representatives participated equally with representatives of the ruling coalition. For example, in the United Kingdom, according to the United Kingdom law, which they are very often and sometimes very much invited to, debate shows cannot be attended by those who were not participants in the last elections. Now I ask the question – and where is it that you call the Alliance for Serbia the legitimacy, in which elections? In what parliamentary elections, what local elections? In the last local elections, they did not participate because of boycotts, but because they could not make lists at local levels, or municipalities and cities where extraordinary local elections were held. Where did the Alliance for Serbia get the legitimacy to be, we also asked the representatives of the European Parliament to be part of the European Commission's report? Look out, the Alliance for Serbia is part of the European Commission's report. Where's the legitimacy coming from? And tell me later that this report is mostly not politically biased. What was the requirement of those who call themselves "one of five million"? Five minutes to be present at RTS. That's quite enough talking about the lack of policy that leads to that, call it, part of the opposition. As far as I'm concerned, I'd give them both 10 and 15 and 20 minutes, if that's the way and way to go to the polls, so they can see how much they're finally worth, because I think their larger media presence is far more talking about them than this through a monologue in the assembly hall through a press conference. During the talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences and Interparty Dialogue in Parliament, we listened to a number of demands and I must remind that some of the demands were, say, to form the Supervisory Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We immediately said we were in favour, but we also asked a question – why has the Supervisory Board not been formed since 2000? Why in 2016, when the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia called all parliamentary groups, did they not send proposals if they cared so much about the Supervisory Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Here, we formed and respected, of course, the opposition's proposals. Also, we said, you want to change RTS editors. We don't mind, do it. This ruling coalition has not set up any RTS editors, but do not talk about how you are not there and how you are not present in debate shows at public service. At the very least, you don't think there's enough of you in public service, so here's the deal. Sessions of the National Assembly are transmitted directly to the Public Service. You want to be present, come to the Assembly Hall, show your strength and show that you are an alternative to the ruling coalition. When it comes to REM, we said very clearly not to interfere with REM's work, but we accept what was defined by the law we adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, not what is written in accordance with European practice, to the best of European legislation, to all honours of Europe, to all the honours of European parliamentarians, but this is Serbia, this is the National Assembly of Serbia, and we have a legislative framework that says very clearly and precisely how and how we choose REM members. Because of this procedure which is respected, we, as a Parliament club, will support this proposal, which has been sent to the board for consideration. Also, on the proposal of the government of Serbia's Working Group, we held a public debate on media representation during the election campaign and what we think, it seems to us definitely that one part of the opposition wants to deal with the editorial media policy and are really talking about not being free of media in the media. That's what you're complaining about in the media and you say you're not in the media, and you're in the media all the time and you're talking about not being free of the media. We are not representatives of the thesis, as part of the opposition when we talk about Serbia's media image, that the media picture is good if we are present in the media, that the media picture is bad if we are not in the media, because we think that everyone in Serbia should do their job and that the media should and must be autonomous in deciding. Also, in 2009, we were part of the ruling coalition and we did not vote to amend and supplement the Law on Public Information as a parliamentary group, regardless of what we were part of the ruling coalition, because we felt that such changes and additions should preserve someone's character and work and that they change and supplement and are a blow to objective and professional journalism. The strategy on privatization of the media, I think, was brought somewhere after 2000, and you wanted capitalism in that period, you got capitalism. The question arises – where does the need to deal with the private sector today? Allow me, the commercial media is exactly that – the private sector. We believe that the interest of ownership is primary. Also, private media are engaged and monitoring public opinion research, and private media are looking at election results and they know what the political option is and they know what the news is in Serbia, but the same media cannot contribute to someone not having 50% or that someone has more than 5%. The fact that you have less than 5% or you don't have 3% as much as you did a few days ago is not our problem and we can't help you with that. I think we had a good conversation during the debate that we had with opposition representatives, with representatives of the media with national frequency, and I think it's one responsible and serious approach, and it's perfectly logical that we have a discussion just before the parliamentary elections on media representation in exactly the government, opposition, media representatives and some of the views that we have then defined and said today. We agree completely when it comes to the Regulation on the work of a public service. That's what REM suggested. We agree when it comes to recommendations to commercial broadcasters. We agree when it comes to equal representation, but when we talk about equal representation, our application was to talk about thematic debates, because that's how political parties can show and show their programs, but they can also show and show and show people who will be guaranteed to realise these programs and we have expressed concern about one thing that I think is a big problem and that will only become a big problem, bearing in mind that information is a very powerful weapon and that is false news. It's something that must be opposed to other information or a different argument, and absolutely no threat, violence and conflict. It is a challenge that we must prepare, first of all, our citizens and agree fully with something, so when we talk about equal representation, it is perfectly logical for us that the electoral lists participating in the parliamentary elections should participate in the debates. It is an opportunity to show their programs, to show what's going on in front of voters. Allow me, the electoral lists of those political options that are for boycott and which do not participate in the election process, how do the electoral lists be represented during the media election campaign? Once again, at the very end, therefore, the SPS parliamentary group will support what we are talking about today when it comes to the composition of REM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71307	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71308	Thank you, Chairman. However, this topic came up on the agenda – the selection of REM members. We've been doing a lot of REM in recent months on the Committee on Culture, and even here on the tide, we've heard different things, and, as I said somewhere, at first glance, it's one of the few topics about which there is a relationship and attitude towards REM, one of the few things about there is a consensus or at least an apparent consensus between MPs and members of the government and opposition. Namely, both are dissatisfied with their work, which in this particular case does not mean that they are doing well. Usually when they're both unhappy with you, that means you're good, especially if you're a regulatory body, then it should be one of the symptoms and signals that this body works properly. But I think there's something else here, and basically REM was a subject that, knowingly or unconsciously, accepted to take blows and to be a symbol of dissatisfaction with the media image. Technically, they are the most responsible because their competences are relatively large and certainly direct when it comes to the media sphere. But I think they've defined themselves, whether in agreement with the authorities or not, for the tactics of that hedgehog. In fact, they decided to get involved in their business, not to get involved much in their work, and most often they did nothing and they left the media sphere to the verse, and then indirectly it means the ruling party, the ruling position, because their stake in the media sphere was absolutely and disproportionately the largest. So those emitters, now I'm talking about electronic television, especially with the national frequency, have been completely for the last year, completely and literally, under the control of the ruling party. Their jurisdiction, i.e. It is right that someone pointed out in the debate so far that it is not just the Public Service. We most often talk about state television Public Service, no, REM's competence concerns all public broadcasters and those local and regional and national, including private ones, means, including private ones with national frequencies. Of course, when it comes to public service, or public services, their jurisdiction is the highest. Anyway, for someone on the side, little by little bystanders, this whole debate and focus on REM seems a little abstract, and not a lot of who knows exactly what REM is and what it's abbreviations, it's hardly what the RRAs remember citizens, and on the side that most of us, ordinary citizens, think that good, that information, that's something that's meant, it's not something directly affecting or what their lives depend on, or what it would, to paraphrasing two colleagues of our own there for a time, two thousand years now, one in power, one in opposition, both alive, have said that patriotism doesn't pour into a tractor, or another said patriotism doesn't rub on bread. Such a good part of the citizens, I don't think they were right, by the way, but anyway, one part of the citizens thinks that the media, freedom of the media, doesn't rub on bread, doesn't pour into a tractor, that is. It doesn't affect their lives directly and directly. But it's actually an optical trick. Of course, whether it will be transmitted and how it will be transmitted and what someone from power or opposition is, God forbid, answered someone from power, it is honestly said, the greatest part, the largest number of citizens is not concerned and not interested very much, unless something interesting, something a little bizarre, or something that a little bit resembles reality. It's none of their business. But, God, when the media, or most of the media, or the main media, don't tell me, or falsely announce that the water in their city is polluted, or, for example, is polluted. that an epidemic broke out, or something like that, or when they're misreporting something. the strike in which they take part, and then as far as they are concerned, then as we remember, we say, "How can they lie, how can they not declare it?" I mean, and how important is freedom of information, and how important is objective and impartial information, and if it seems to be something that only journalists, media and perhaps some politicians and some of the media are interested in. In that light, therefore, if we agree that it is important, this choice and the fullness of REM members is important. I think that with the possible exception of one topic, literally one topic, which the president of the government has been constantly talking about that they didn't mind the role of REM, i.e. Not mixing REM into your business and leaving the media sphere, I'm saying one topic on which we're constantly listening to water from them. I think everything's important and that it's bad that REM didn't get involved in his business. I think he was, I'll say it openly, under control, or the REM Council, or at least most of their members under direct or indirect control of the government. This is evident from the way these resignations were submitted, and how resignations were submitted, and how, as I already said at the Committee session, were announced at the end of December by intermediaries from the European Parliament, who mentioned 3+2, i.e. that two more will be elected in addition to the three missing REM members, who will resign in the meantime. And, look at the wonders of two members really resigned at the end of January, and here, we are now attending, we need to fill in their number. Gentlemen and colleagues, and dear viewers, is there more direct, more obvious evidence and an example of the control of the influence of the REM Council, than two members have resigned, because it has been announced that resignations will be submitted to meet European mediators. If they submitted their resignations to the bell, they probably also voted on the bell, or in line with the pressure from the authorities. That's why I warned against repeating mistakes, because it's not about personalities, it's about personal solutions, but it's about autonomous personalities that will be able to stand up, first of all, to interfere in their business, and then to oppose the will, or the interest, or the one who suggested them, the promoter, and, of course, the majority who will vote here in the National Assembly. It's the meaning of independent regulatory bodies. Otherwise, it's really better that I suggested sometimes, so then some colleagues in the civil sector get mad at me, otherwise it's really better if we put things back on the ministry, so at least we know who's guilty, who we praise and who we blame, if things don't work out well. They said – no, not at all, it is European practice, we need an independent regulator, etc. But in order for an independent regulator to really be a regulator, it has to be really independent, and that means that its members have to be really autonomous, independent person. Otherwise, we get an even worse situation when you have a minister or a ministry that decides, because like I said, at least you know the address you're complaining about, who you blame if something isn't good in the media sphere. In that sense, it's kind of like washing your hands if you leave that sphere to the independent regulator. Therefore, it is indeed a great responsibility of the person who is elected and who will come to the place of those who have now resigned, whether because of a sense of responsibility or because of some political one, I will not say the pressure, but the suggestions of a political one, that anyone can conclude for himself. However, I will, if there is no dilemma to support the proposal, although I believe that all proposals and formally, are certainly competent, I will support the proposal of the representative Association of Journalists of Serbia, simply because it thinks it is the fastest and most representative body when it comes to this selection of a member they propose. I don't speak personally, I don't know enough candidates, I don't have any personal grudges on them, but then I'll judge by the breadth of representativeness, to tell the media, the public weight of the promoter. In this case, it is the Association of Journalists of Serbia and I will support their proposal. I think that's what others should do. With what is now personal in my name, I regret that both the UNS and NUNS have not been able to make a joint proposal, then he would have had an even greater weight, but of course he has, for example. Here, I'll offer one name without permission, maybe I'll be resented, for example. Mrs. Ljubica Gojgić, you all know who this is. I think she's one of our best, if not the best political journalist, to ask her to accept those duties, so let her refuse. I only take her as a paradigm. There's got to be more of these personalities. So, personalities we can assume with great probability that they won't comply with the pressure, that they won't vote on the bells, that they'll be able to judge by conscience. Sometimes it's wrong when you vote and judge by conscience, but that's the meaning of the existence of independent regulatory bodies. Without it, there are only those bodies in the government's transmission and as I said, it's even worse than when the government is doing a direct job, because then at least they have to take care of it, because they know they'll be called and blamed. Just a few more words about this subject, which the ruling coalition and representatives of the government keep mentioning, when it speaks of its dissatisfaction with REM, then mentions this re-emission, mentions the TV "N1", mentions SBB, and there are more remarks. I don't mind having REM deal with it, besides everything else and all the other things he hasn't done so far. So let him deal with it. But, based on doubt, so to speak, I am sure there would be no such grudges, nor these now dilemmas and criticisms that we listen to both at the expense of the SBB and at the expense of the TV "N1", that, for example, the programme of this television is favoured by the government, or by the ruling political option, to praise, as all other moves by the government, ministers, of course, the president. In that case, probably not so many MPs and some others would be dealing with this and the conditions under which they broadcast the program. I repeat, investigate everything, check, bring in accordance with the law. In your hands are a knife and a cake, but let's not kid ourselves, let's not kid ourselves, if that program were what all the other televisions with the national frequency are like, we wouldn't be doing this formal, procedural thing about broadcasting this program so much. Which again, let's not lie to ourselves, is about a significant cable operator and significant television, but to an operator who still doesn't cover more than half of it, now maybe even slightly less, because before there was more than half of the cable space. In other words, half the citizens who are informed via cable cannot monitor the TV program. So he can't, he can't, he can't, he won't. On the side that you have a good part of Serbia that gives us cable, but is being informed through the earth's systems. So we're talking about one television that can do everything in the best possible way and one third of the territory, and it's demonized and declared central, and then it's polarized, and then it's made by maltene mittins, and then it's polarized and it's made by maltene mittins, protests, for and against, whether it's the greatest evil and monster that's out of the media sky of Serbia, or whether it's the light-puncher of freedom and free thought. Generally, I'm here on the sidelines, and I think that's what most citizens of this country think. Let everyone see, I don't want to get involved in the commercial dispute between the two companies, let's make it possible for one system and another, cable can offer all the TVs, all the programs, so let the citizens look, and that's where I think about these sports but that's just, most of the citizens are really more interested, than these political programs, but anyway. Don't make it like a hard economic war, allegedly about economic interests, that he's really an economic interest, then they'd try to offer you both the best and the best and the cheaper service, and I don't see that these services fall to the price of these services. So, as I was saying, I repeat, I'm sure it gives a programming report, that, therefore, the program is different from this television that we're talking about, you wouldn't be doing so much here on what terms they broadcast or re-emission the program, in other words, doesn't bother once on all televisions or practically all televisions, and focus is on one that plays a different opinion. Whether they're objective and they're both, give everyone a chance to see everything, and then let the citizens judge. So, why are we doing this now and adopting and filling these places out? Because the authorities in these talks promised it, not to the opposition, not to the citizens, but to European intermediaries. That's also a fact. These European intermediaries, of course, seemed convenient to them to be able to say in their report, here we have met most of the requirements. Here, the government gave in to some things. I don't see any big discount, if one listener is replaced by another, and that's why I hope that these members we choose today as well as those we choose in late December will understand the weight of responsibility and will not behave according to that criterion, because that way of obedient voting and obedience, in the end, and I end it, although I still have a few minutes, but damage to both the authorities and the authorities themselves who inauguration that practice. I hope they're aware of that in the ruling coalition. At some point, when you're oversupply, with manipulation, with one dimensional reporting, then no one trusts you even when you tell the truth, even when the media at some point announces something that is true for their political opponents, they will no longer be trusted, and then you come into a situation where you have what you say, a wooden stove, or a glass axe, which looks like a real axe, but it can't be cut with anything. So, it is also in the interest of the whole society, least opposition, but also the authorities, that the media sphere, even later, even if it is too late, even if it is not enough, as much as possible to regulate in this light this REM has a role to play, but let's not absoluteize it, and let's not now think that one move, one measure or one vote will be able to fundamentally change things, if there is no political will, first of all, that these things change. Otherwise, keep in mind what I said, you'll have control of maybe absolute media, but no one will believe you anymore, even when you're telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71309	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71310	I thank the chairman. You've allowed a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Namely, commenting in the Assembly and making such statements in some kind of an obedient vote, which has been sent since the person who spoke before me, is not double, it is an insult to this parliament. Someone may hear the bell, but someone should wear it around his neck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71311	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. You don't want the Assembly to make a statement about it. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Krlić. Ask for a colleague's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71312	I think that you were obliged to make previous speakers, given that it is a TV personality, an analyst who very often appears on television, that it is not allowed to make multiple grammatical spelling mistakes, and repeats the word - submitted, submitted, submitted. It has a very negative effect on both students and students, and I, as an educational worker, must make that observation to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71313	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I can't teach someone grammar. That's what a teacher does when she's six or seven years old. The word is from MP Mirko Krlić, who is proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to react at this point, although there are a lot of comments and I did at first thank all the members of the Committee for their co-operation, including those of the opposition, and here is one of the MPs who was active and for that I thank him for it. What implies regularly creating the atmosphere as well as the committees, the National Assembly and this government exercise absolute control over the media, even over REM itself, is truly completely inconclusive and completely empty. I will say just one thing, to determine these candidates so that all MPs know the same member of the Committee is first on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia as it is now with a lot of authority, as it is a classical intention that a phantom organisation that is not engaged and which is not a media association, has its candidate, which only implies that the ruling party has agreed, who will be the REM member. Then it happened that we read him over 20, 30, and there are over 50 electronic emitters that are members of the Chamber of Commerce and have their own section in the Chamber of Commerce and have the right to propose. And then the correction came and the same MP said, well, it's not phantom, it's regimeal, it's clear that the candidate of the association you invented will actually be elected. And it happened that this candidate didn't pass the second round. Now it would be polite for every decent man, especially the MP to apologize and say, "Here, I've really made a mistake." Is it so hard to say, as you now again claim that the Public Service is under the control of the ruling party? I'll tell you one more argument. The absolute European record player in the most visible public service show, "Dnevnik 2" 16 times direct participation in the show, as a guest for a year is Vuk Jeremic, an absolute European record player. Of course, we can talk about the results, and in what way, he opened the door of the second diary with his foot. Alexander Vukic in 2019, here I am looking for data from RTS that he was never a direct guest in Dnevnik, and I will remind you that 16 years is the same editor-in-chief, that it is the same editorial policy. So how can you only explain that the public service is under absolute control by the ruling party? Of course, criticizing is always easy. What is the point, we essentially changed REM, 60% of REM are new people. If that's not a change, I don't know what change is. So brand-new people are in REM today. Whether they will do their job much better than these previous ones, and whether we will be satisfied with it depends much on what Mr Komlenski was talking about, and I fully agree that the legal regulation is something that must define what REM is about. Also, the criticism of Mr Milicevic in the direction that REM must better define all its powers, stands. So once again, it's not hard to say I'm sorry when you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71315	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71316	It's really not hard to be nice, it's not hard to apologize, although it's very rarely practiced in this House. If that were a criterion, I'd be here by midnight. Some special session to schedule for all the apologies I've earned and the ones I owe. But with regard to this particular thing that the president of the Committee, or Mr Krlić, said that I really said what is the fact that I don't know about this promoter, it's one thing whether members who make it or members who make it known, of course they are all, more or less known media and most of all under the control of the government, and I repeat it and now, the promoter, the Chamber of Commerce, some Sector for Creative Industry, was truly unknown. How did this proposal come about? We didn't vote on the Committee, but simply by law, a set of proposings gathered, so they agreed to be two of these candidates who came and who are candidates of the Association of Journalists, which I think is fine. So, I think it's okay to be candidates of the Press Association. If they've chosen well, it's none of their business, it's all of us, but it's not something that... I mean, we can figure it out, the responsibility will be on them who proposed these candidates. So, in a way, I was right. You can tell by the fact that this proposal is withdrawn, maybe just because it doesn't seem too proselytic. Anyway, I don't have any problem that when I'm wrong to apologize and admit a mistake, but I think that my colleague Krlić, here, I'm giving you the right to replication and opportunity, let's not be fooled that the media situation is good, don't be using the data you pulled, maybe it's true, maybe it's not visiting, I don't know who in some live journal that we're covering up the fact that we're mass media all using the national frequency to promote the ruling party for seven, eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71317	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71318	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. Just before the speaker said - I don't know who, you pulled the data, etc., and you sat in front of the founding assembly and the party of Vuk Jeremic. So, very clearly, counterpart Krlić said it was Vuk Jeremic, that he had hosted 16 times in the "Dnevnik" RTS. He was very clear. What Mr. Krlić, for gentlemen's reasons or not knowing which others, did not want to say that the editor of Dnevnik was Natasa Jeremic. So, colleagues before me, Natasha Jeremic, wife of Vuk Jeremic. So she edits, she was one of the editors of the "Dnevnik" RTS, and her husband, Vuk Jeremic, appeared 16 times live in the "Dnevnik" RTS, trying to crack the data. The previous speaker who sat in the founding assembly of Vuk Jeremic and who seems to me to be sitting in a club belonging to and representing a club belonging to, among other things, the Vuk Jeremic party and I think that there is Sanda Raskovic Ivić, etc., has roughly tried to deceive the National Assembly. He keeps trying to say how the government controls some media. He as the owner, co-owner or as a host on private free television, to tell us how many times the ruling MPs visited on his show, in his free television, let's say, Mr. Orlic, Mr. Martinovic, my smallness, Mr. Atlagic, etc. Their resonation is next - our private television and our private magazines do not touch, but we ask you to touch those other private media and force our freedom to other private media. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71319	I don't think I've violated the above provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go. You, as authorized and as a pronoun, have the right to speak for how long you wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71320	Thank you. You see, I was asked a question -- are great relations even with media space in Serbia? It can always be better, and that's where we'll always agree. However, we would just have to, say, bring out information that in a year and a half of a day, in some space, in some media space and in some state, over 250 new media houses can be opened, today in Serbia, whoever has the money to open a radio station or open up a media register. Is that one of the ways of freedom? I don't know. But I do know that for the freedom of the media whose mouth is full, we heard Vuk Jeremic, today the most spoken by Gilas, speaking Professor Veljanovski, speak of such people who did not dominate the media space, who simply had a media space in their personal possession. You know very well that no one could buy seconds directly from RTS or if he could buy them, then he had to pay twice as much, rather than if it goes through Gilas' private company. All that time is the same, Lj. Stefanovic, the editor-in-chief, as the most responsible person in terms of a public service bar that is always targeted when talking about media strategies. So, I can't tell you anything but to think that it really takes a lot of work to perfect our media image, and that's why it's a great hope, because that's why we want it, is what you call lenientness to a foreign factor is a desire that that body called REM and that could establish certain control and that we're asking it to simply contribute to perfection, that is. The improvement of the media image works differently, which is why this change is essential. Try to see some things on the positive side once, we have no family ties with anyone, no public service, no anywhere else. Mr. Marijan Rističević best pictured what the situation looked like. So, with your foot to open the most visible space, the "Second Log" RTS, indeed only specials could be allowed, and they are today the biggest media freedom fighters, they talk about freedom of the media. I agree, let's also talk about the freedom of the media of someone who really has to say, the one who completely destroyed freedom of the media, who put the public service at their feet, who robbed it financially today is the main speaker on freedom and the release of public service.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71321	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71322	Thank you. Mr. Krlic, about some things we'll agree on, it's not disputed. I don't think that automatically weak position is someone's, if you say something is true from what the other side said. After all, you have admitted indirectly that I am right that the media situation is not good. I have two things to say. The way new media opens up, with or without quotes, every month and so on, that's one pair of sleeves. Anyone can put a cell phone in a room and record themselves and open their own channel on the Internet. It can't be evened with television with a national frequency, so there wouldn't be those TVs, they wouldn't pay so much taxes, expenses and everything else, if it wasn't something that affected a little bit different from a private channel that every single one of us can open. As for the questions that have been asked us, but of course in a different form, but business issues, which I cannot answer, very specifically, to this small one, means, to the small Internet channel on which I now have a show, from the last four guests two were representatives of the government, two were presidents of the ruling coalition and sitting here, i.e. They're not sitting right now, but they're sitting right here at the National Assembly of the ruling party, two out of four. When they come and visit me, you can't always be so mathematical, of course, when I'm being visited by someone from the opposition, then I'm trying to, given this dilemma that exists, one is someone who supports the boycott, to be the other who's against the idea of a boycott by the opposition. So a small contribution to objective and free information, a small example, is a small illustration. And to that, otherwise, small and free television, internet television doesn't give a cable from sessions, either big or neither, so far they don't get it in cable, even though you have a hundred cable channels, so it seems like there's one more. Either way, each of us should contribute as much as we can, whether we discuss the National Assembly, with any aspect of the media sphere, I make that contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71323	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71324	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, again, Article 107. Serbia's radio-television is in full editorial composition that it was in before the change in 2013, and Mr Vukadinovic insists on proving that this government affects the media. Whether a medium is shown on the Internet or in some other way taking part in programs, in some other way conveying its signal, etc., that's their thing. So, the SBB won't let them into the cabal, it's their relationship with the SBB, it's a private matter, but if the wife of Vuk Jeremic is the editor of RTS and if Vuk Jeremic was 16 times live in the journal RTS and now in the same composition of the editor's RTS, with Bujosevic, with the wife of Borko Stefanovic, etc. He insists on showing how we, see, edit RTS. I'll make an example of myself. I was supposed to be on the Questionnaire show once, once in 20, 30 years, once in a live session at Questionnaire. My political opponents were supposed to be Nenad Canak and Djordje Vukadinovic. And, look, in the morning before the show, I've been informed that I'm out. 'Cause I'm not answering. My political opponents have conditioned, one or both, that they will not participate if I participate in this show and debate and RTS has made a decision, behold, miracles, in favour of the authorities by throwing me out, and the two of them have left. So much for the freedom of the media and so much for the influence of the ruling majority on the media in Serbia. What remains is what I am saying and what is a violation of dignity, that media that write about them well, like Nova, N1, which 99% of the program is dedicated to the opposition, are free media, but those who don't pay that much attention to them, but to someone else, and then they're not free media. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71325	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party had earlier warned about the work and functioning of this regulatory body as long as someone here said it was in history and it was called the RRA. We said it wasn't the role of any body, especially regulatory when it comes to the media. Before the history of all this is the period when the so-called. formatting the media. The media formation began by making the radio amateurs their first turn. For those who are not in this area, it is that all radio emitters, for example, are uniformed in such a way that, for example, you have emissions that allow maximum three to five minutes of speech, and then there are three musical desires or music releases, and that's how all radio stations work when it comes to not only Serbia, but when it comes to the region. That job on behalf of the so-called. No one else worked Europe but the people of Croatia and Slovenia. They're operatives who are... And today some of them are in Serbia, doing the same thing, just electronic media. Imagine what their desire and intentions were at the beginning? That someone should come from Croatia and bring something that is about the media, the media scene, the broadcast of a radio or other program, that he wants it to be good and to be within European standards. That's all he can think and believe. There's always logistics with them. The logistics, it is known, consists, above all, of those who are well-trained not in the media and media processes, but in the field of intelligence work. We Serbian radicals, knowing that, were warned in time. Maybe style, maybe the way the Serbian radicals said it didn't match the government's composition at the time, as it doesn't match this composition, when we said REM should be lifted the moment he gave in under pressure from the former CIA deputy director to open his private television, and that was quite clear. In addition to all the legal regulations, along with all the standards, a former deputy director of the CIA was allowed to open his private television. Every normal person was supposed to access the job with a high dose of the reserve, even registration when it comes to any media, and in this case television. What happened? It happened that it was the beginning of everything we're looking at right now, and that's that the public is sharing about whether something that is illegal, which is contrary to the law can work because it's a populist method of general mood, as they say, in the people. When it comes to the law, it's put aside. What was this regular doing, how is it said in the law in the text? They were silent, as they would say -- courageously silently, and then they began to think about how and how they could be politically activated, to engage in the whole debate, in the whole dispute between one media, or one agency that is now behind the media. On the other hand, there's no need to hide the authorities. This lasted until the moment until the election campaign, with all this, got the EU involved through the European Parliament. It is something that has further contributed to making us Serbian radicals even more thorough in our claim that everything in Serbia is under pressure both in the media and in media space. All we have to do is press power in a certain way and she'll accept. That's literally what I'm talking about. That's how everything happened about the so-called. Preparations for the election. European Parliamentarians came to Serbia, a European Parliament delegation, where even one member is a former parliamentarian... (Vladimir Orlic: Two. Thank you, colleague Orlic. There's two of them. In the meantime, he may have received some valuable pensions, perhaps taking part in another action when it is to be destroyed, so they decorated him, but two, which is even more embarrassing and embarrassing. Imagine a former parliamentarian showing up in Serbia to mediate when it comes to Serbia's political scene and when it comes to further functioning of the media? That's hardly where you're gonna meet your ex... It was earlier -- a candidate for an MP, for a senator, who had been a candidate for 15 to 20 years, but he appeared here, so they used him here as if he were an MP or a senator, and here he was a former MEP. At the head of this delegation is an active MP, and this is Tanja Fajon. What was their role? Their role was to pressure the government in Serbia to accept all conditions, regardless of what entered the election year. All conditions, of course, for holding elections, which is a method already seen, but for us Serbian radicals and the Serbian public, the known method is that they further polarised Serbia, or the political scene of Serbia, and then they talk to representatives, above all, those who represent the government, some of them present there who financed the opposition, and on the other hand, besides the meetings during the day, they go to negotiate with those who, on condition, are the opposition. The whole war, and the essence of the beginning of the war in BiH, began by these international negotiators, intermediaries, just using similar methods. This is not for the sake of this, but only to make it clearer to the public, by talking to one side first, in BiH, it was the Serbian side, and then they went to talk to the other party made up of Muslim-Croatian politicians. They contributed by mediating to further tighten relations so that it could no longer be an intolerable atmosphere political. What were they doing here? Same method. They meet in official rooms with officials, then go to Belgrade cafes to meet with opposition representatives. Then they interpret what the government said at the meeting and what the government wants, and then give instructions, in not a small number of cases, to those who are playing the opposition what they need to do to further blackmail the government. And who's suffering? Serbian citizens suffer. He's suffering the public in Serbia. When we, the Serbian radicals, said clearly and Decidently, should be attacked; many have resented us. Why would anyone intervene? Why is this conversation we have insisted on since 2016 not being held here in parliament, within the agenda, to discuss it? Have we told you that public service, especially when it comes to public service management, needs to be radically changed? That's when we said, the current public service control body called RTS is not responding to the will of the citizens. But you don't care, it's a European service. It's a service that's in European flows. They're not interested in Serbia. We told you, every new assembly needs to consider who's going to be the head of that Public Service. You didn't accept that. You left a man who's still on DS. He didn't stay because he was in the DS, but because he was brought by the Americans by the same ones who open TV in wild Serbia. You can't touch Buicket, you've extended his work hours, although all the laws of Serbia were meant to retire. Krlic knows exactly that he should retire in May. So whether he retires or not, but he's an incompetent man. That's another reason why a man who's retired can't do such a responsible job, a man who's biased. We said that in the composition of the bodies that need to be controlled and managed by the Public Service, it should be a picture of the assembly's composition. Why? Because it's the will of the citizens. A relative number of MPs, each parliamentary party or parliamentary group should have a representative in such a single body. But it hasn't changed for you. You've been covering European trends, bringing quasi experts, putting them in those places, and then no wonder they're turning against you. When you speak of who is represented at this Public Service, we Serbian radicals have every right to protest. We're not here at all. The leaders tell us openly on these shows that we are not desirable, they are openly speaking to us at the Public Service, not to us Serbian radicals, to be understood, that is the number of citizens who have given confidence in the SRS policy, as the SNS has given confidence. No one can ignore it, no one can go beyond that will and the mood of the citizens, whether they voted for this or that political option, but it has nothing to do with it. We said – give the public service financed by the good part of the state, give what is significant, strategically important when it comes to the media, strategically important for Serbia, let it be put under parliament's control. You're more comfortable with it being out of control. You prefer individual or some collective, less collective interests to be represented on these media. You think that'll last forever? He won't. There were periods, reminders for the sake of being the editor-in-chief, now long-expended as a journalist, she openly said that while she was at RTS, Vojislav Seselj had no place on RTS. It didn't last long, not because she was apostrophe of Vojislav Seselj, but because those who brought her here saw who they were dealing with. When it comes to REM, you here use the changes that have been extorted. These changes were made by these and European parliamentarians asking to change the number of members in REM, that those who are not at all a parliamentary party, those who did not participate at all, have their own representatives and you gave in. You gave in and let something that was precedent become almost a rule. You have allowed the party purchased by Vuk Jeremic, which was bought by Dragan Gilas, to dictate the conditions under which you will lead this country. Why? Because they are offering themselves to the EU. They do nothing different from you, but they offer that much faster, they will do better what the EU requires, and the EU's demand is not just media reform. The EU's request is clear. I guess the change in this EU accession methodology has now made it very clear to you what the EU is asking Serbia to do, or those who are leading Serbia. They demand recognition from Kosovo and Metohija. They are asking for Kosovo's recognition as a state, and these are being offered. They run to Brussels, running to individual leaders of European countries to say they will. They're just shades of difference, but you're buying it and you're having a discussion. What's very strange is here in two places that have been emptied because of the resignations, and the resignations have been extorted, should be, competed by four men, four persons competing on the basis of professional training, based on experience meet all the conditions. You know what that looks like to you by looking at it? It looks like when UEFA pulls a draw for participation in the Cup of European Champions or some European Cup and then puts on those balls, you see, they're ping-pong balls, and everyone thinks it's the most real, the most objective. Few people know, here's Moma Colakovic here's a colleague who has experience in it, few people know that certain balls that are favored, the night before that were kept in the fridge to be different temperatures. This looks to me like you've put the balls on and now you're turning us all around in how we're going to discuss individuals here. One thing you forgot. It's your responsibility, whoever you choose. There's something else strange about me personally. Talks with these candidates were held by members of the Committee, which is perfectly natural and in line with the functioning of the Assembly, but imagine what kind of situation these people who are mostly professional, some of them I personally know. They had to answer questions and everything else to those people who don't have any idea about this area. It associates something with a period of self-government socialism, when, like everyone who graduated from college, we started working and being interns. We laid the traineeship, believe it or not, in front of qualified and unqualified workers. They had no idea. The same is now being done, only at the level of the Assembly. However, there is one in the people. Not everyone has to be a midwife or a gynecologist in order to have a child. And it exists, which is totally logical. But this is about a very important thing. It's not about personal knowledge or ignorance, it's about the work of a regulatory body that just falsifies to regulate the situation in the media, nothing more. It's just a fixation. They do to you from the West, or from the EU, whatever they want. When you rebel a little, when you look up to the president of Serbia, when you raise your voice here, like against this Tanja Fajon, you see how you get hit, which you would say, by the ears. They lower your tonality immediately and you begin to apologize to Tanja Fajon. One of the ruling majority MPs said the most sincere, perhaps a little clumsy, but he told the truth – no good intentions, how will it be good intentions? You now have a situation, if you follow, if you watch TV, when it goes to commercials on one channel, switch, almost all other channels go to commercials. After a certain period, whether it's informative, whether it's a sports program, it doesn't matter, after a while they start broadcasting commercials. What's that? It's your conditional reflex. That's how you do it in a man, that in a certain period of time you wait for some information and come to that degree, at that stage, that everything that's been said in that stage, and that minute you accept, what's beyond that, that's suspicious to you. It's a formatting, that's how it's done. You here are having a debate and you are burning with individuals, including us Serbian radicals. You understand, this job is very, very important for Serbia's fate, not for your own personal human beings.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71327	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word is Mirko Krlić, the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71328	I won't comment on this political part of the speech. I understand that the election campaign is starting and that every minute and every second is important. And with him in some part of it, I may be able to agree or disagree with him personally, but he doesn't matter. I'd just like to say a few important things that have been dragged here, and for the sake of the public, you have to know. Each REM member is chosen in a special way and you know it very well. You've created an atmosphere like that of political parties, i.e. This Assembly or parliamentary groups elect REM members, which is absolutely not true. Only one member is elected in such a way that the parliamentary groups propose a representative. As far as biography is concerned, they only become members of such an important body, I will tell you, only for the one chosen by electronic media and news associations of the sea, means that it must be supported by at least 500 members in order for one association to be representative, so that it can be proposed by the broadcaster, at least 50, in fact by at least 30 organisations that form an organisation, that it can, as an emitter, electronic emitter, propose a candidate. So, the candidate to be proposed must have several thousand. For example, if the UNS has over 2,500 members and proposes candidates, and supports others, it means that it is over four, five thousand members who support the final candidate that it has reached, i.e. up to two candidates that were reached by agreement, without voting. Therefore, we cannot say that there is no biography, nor any political choice, we must be aware. If we suspect 2,500 members of the UNS, if we suspect 500, 600 members of the Vojvodina Journalist Society, if we suspect all the electronic broadcasters who suggested these candidates, then it's another story, tell them in person. If everyone is under the influence of only one political party, we are more powerful than we could ever imagine.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71329	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71330	Mr. Krlic, I'm glad that you've agreed most of the time with what I said on behalf of the SRS, but the bottom line is this. More Stalin, Josip Visarionovich Stalin, said, "It doesn't matter who votes, it matters who counts." It's important here who votes in the congregation, and what they're proposing, we've seen it. Of course, it can't all be so that the worm of doubt is constantly undermining that everything is set up, but here you have a candidate who is proposed by the AP Vojvodina. Don't, Mr. Krlic, now convince me that there's no political dimension, that there's no dose of politics. You're not going to convince us that where there's a SNS majority, that this committee is going to propose someone else, and who isn't, who isn't responding to that political party. I'm taking an example. Look, we Serbian radicals don't mind being like that. The greatest responsibility is for the SNS and for those who bear responsibility should have rights and that is quite clear, but don't play so much, as you would say, prudence. You're still explaining to me, to me and to us radicals, that it's all policy-free. He's got political doses. I wish those others who are there had some responsibility. As far as the press association is concerned, just to tell you, I personally had someone else who had no idea about music, let alone play, but he figured it out, put a record and wrote a musician. So do journalists, some, of course, honor those who are honorable and upright. The number of members does not speak of quality. There may be an association that has thousands and thousands of members and that none of them are essentially professional. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71331	Thank you, Mr. Mircic, and thank you for respecting the time for replication. The word is Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71332	Just a brief intervention. It is true that one member in this case is elected by the Committee on Culture and Public Information of the AP Vojvodina. It's by law and by the system how REM was made belongs to them. We have one proposal of one political option, another political option, but I'll just remind you that here in this assembly we have chosen a REM representative who is an absolute representative of the opposition, a longtime opposition MP, and that the SNS and most had no proposal. We simply didn't want to leave that story behind at this point, that everything is under control, and that there really isn't any fundamental change. Here, the fundamental change is that we are so free that we can leave this regulatory body, because here is the most important thing that Mr. Komlenski spoke of, the legislative regulation. If we respect legislation, then we will honor everything else. Is REM the best possible solution? It is and is shown in countries with the most developed media structure and image that REM is one of the ways to regulate public information. Our idea and great desire is to take these changes one step forward. If we don't, we'll get a different answer soon, and there'll be some other majority who might do this better than us.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71333	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71334	What is an irrefutable fact, is that all this came after, conditionally speaking, talks with European parliamentarians, with these two already former European parliamentarians and the one headed by those former parliamentarians. This all started after that conversation. It can't be said in the right sense to be considered a conversation, because if you accept everything you're dictated, then it's not a conversation. That may be the deal where they play a decisive role. I'd believe what you're saying about the opposition's representative, but, Mr. Krlic, the public needs to know it's a member of the LDP. It's the same as saying that, let's say, one of your coalition partners suggested, so you adopted his proposal, and that's the opposition. Don't go that far. The Liberal Democratic Party that some opposition is ruling, so don't say that. If that were the case, their leader, those parties, you'd have been in front of the investigative authorities a long time ago. No, but you've found one form, but it's not the point of you and I discussing right now, the point is to see what's the ultimate solution, what's good for Serbia. If we finance, such as the regulatory body, such as regulatory legal media, when it comes to the media, then it will come back one day as a boomerang, not to you who are the majority now, it is variable yourself you know, it will return to Serbia. Much greater knowers in this area, much more cunning people are behind this. He wasn't the deputy director of the CIA, the former deputy director of the CIA came to Serbia, he had a really good idea, there's a lot of publicity, and there's a lot of ratings on that TV. No, but it goes, it's the emissaries that come before what's next, and it's much worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71335	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71336	As authorized. Thank you. Yes, a very interesting debate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and it would be wrong not to remind myself at first, when we talk about REM, when we talk about the state of the media, when we talk about the selection of two remaining REM members, first and foremost we talk about improving electoral conditions in Serbia. Why? Because this is the last measure, pay attention, to the list of all those measures that are the result of our inter-party dialogue that we have all conducted together in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for those who have forgotten it or ignore it today. Thus, this conversation was conducted under the tabernacle of the National Assembly, and these conclusions were drawn. This is the last measure. I've got this paper here with the conclusions we made together on that occasion. Under the regular number 17 stands – appoint 3 plus 2 REM members. Today and the moment we vote, when we say by voting the proposals, when we complete the Council, we realize, we fulfill the last agreed thing. We've finished everything else until today. If we need to remind ourselves of what all this means, we don't have any problem with it, on the contrary. We are, that you know well and understand, proud of the fact that we have improved the electoral conditions in Serbia better, better quality than ever, than anyone has ever been since the multiparty in this country. You didn't have such electoral conditions. In terms of they're so good, they're so good, and best for those who, if we hadn't implemented these measures, we probably wouldn't have anything to hope for in the election. It's all those who are livingly concerned about the question and why we now have better and better quality electoral lists than ever, and why today the Supervisory Board has been formed that we need, for 20 years, we need, we need, to be able to form it, and they haven't found themselves obliged to form it for a single time, but you see, we have. That's the answer to the question of the same ones who were talking about REM, here's this REM that's the topic today, how is that the cause of all their life, political and all their other problems, and what would it be? Once again, let me remind you, we are implementing the last item on the list. We've already selected three REM members at the end of the previous year, and here we are today talking about two more. There is not a single aspect of the electoral process that has not been improved, and it is significantly improved, and once again, if we have to remind ourselves, there is wherever you scratch and when it comes to these voter lists, and when it comes to RIK's work, haven't they fulfilled one of the obligations, completed the instructor's training at the end of the previous year? Today, those people who have passed these trainings, and have never done so, are training all those who have delegated parliamentary groups or political parties that do not have parliamentary groups, working with tens of thousands of people who will conduct electoral actions in practice, who will be directly in charge of the election process being better than ever. Nemanja Sarovic throws. ( ) Those who like to earn from the bench will participate. That's right, they'll have a chance to make their contribution in their own way, not just by throwing it away. Since they're worried about whether they can get out of the fridge, as I've heard, they can come out freely. So, absolutely everything we've done is more than anyone has ever found appropriate. You remember for sure, this Supervisory Board, we talked about it then, five members were elected on a proposal from Parliament groups from this assembly here. How many of these five were selected on the proposal of different opposition MPs? Three, most of them. Nemanja Sarovic throws. ) And those who like to earn had their proposal, and their proposal was adopted. These others who like to say that all the media are controlled by the authorities, though, don't talk about the ones we keep and don't talk about where we are editors, but everything else that remains is under the control of the government, so when we ask them -- well, then why are you guests in all those other media, then they move the story to something else -- well, no, it's actually more the REM issue, it's not what I was there, don't ask me what I was, I'll say I've never been. They know well both, they had the right to participate, to run for their own people and those candidates, whoever suggested them, whoever accepted to participate, we voted. It is right that the chairman of the committee responsible, when we spoke about three members of the REM Council at the end of last year, gave one as her own proposal to the Assembly, or the committee on the proposal of parliamentary groups and political parties. The only one we voted again, as most of us, on the proposal of the opposition parliamentary group. It's so scary our control and... Nemanja Sarovic throws. )......................................................................................................... We're so afraid of you guys who like to throw you out of the bench, we've got a lot to control. Today we're talking about two other proposals. One came from the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, their board of directors, the second is a proposal from the Association of Journalists. So, no, no, let them shout freely, I don't expect anything else until they yell at you every time we talk from here, it would be just a pleasant surprise, but not to expect miracles. When we complete it, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and you citizens of Serbia who listen to this, you know, we're going to have a total of nine REM members of five brand-new people. So Mr. Krlić said nicely, and Mr. Vukadinović nodded, as far as I could see, five out of nine completely new people. Then what does that mean? Does that mean we're showing that we're afraid of something, that we have some terrible need to control anything? No, it's all the opposite. When you accuse us, and you accused us, right, and you didn't, Mr. Vukadinovic, say the words – I apologize for that, you spoke earlier – I don't think it's a bad thing to say when a man makes a mistake, etc., but to end it and conclude with the words – and therefore I apologize for accusing you on the assembly board, you from the SNS that you want your candidate through the Chamber of Commerce to, by force of God, vote. You don't say that. You have to say that because you accused others of it, and that, as you can see, did not happen. Then someone says – REM you kept under control all the time, but it just doesn't explain how, when this same REM forbidding us, our party banned our proposed lists in the campaign from banning election videos, and we kept them under control, right? Who else did they do that to? Do you know they used to work for you? I can't remember anything, and I know they've been working on us, and not in one campaign, but more than once. As I know, and all of Serbia knows, that they've allowed embarrassing videos, such mounted videos, completely constructed, stamped out at the expense of our candidates made by others, broadcast others. There was nothing disputed about REM. It was all beautiful and democratic at the time. They forbid us videos, they don't touch others, no matter how many of us they are, and then someone comes in and says, "No, you're holding them in your hand." Well, that's how we keep them in our hands, but, as you can see, we don't have any problem with that, because we know, the electoral conditions, they just suit us to be more liberal, just to be more quality, to be on a higher standard than ever before. Of course, under such conditions, so perhaps just, first of all, under such conditions we can only expect a good result in the elections, and we can do something else, to say -- see, we have made them better than ever in Serbia. It's no one else. What's the problem with saying that? What is the problem of saying honestly – I participated in this dialogue that was held in the National Assembly? What's the problem? I've been there, I've been listening, and I know it's a dialogue, and I know we've all talked about these things, and we've agreed that this is going to be a significant promotion, and that everyone who took part in it has said that – if this happens, it's going to be a fantastic thing. To be honest, they said – if at least part of this happens, it'll be a fantastic thing, it'll be better than ever. What is the problem now when it has been realized, to be honest and to say – well done. What's the problem with admitting - it's really better than ever. You know who won't admit it? Only one who, for selfish political reasons, has no interest in being honest, to be honest, to be correct, and to say, is. Only one with his own personal interest to close his eyes and try to convince the rest of us that we're stupid and deaf and blind in the eyes. What is the problem with, say, those who participated in this dialogue, so let them have nothing to do with the opposition or parliamentary or non-parliamentary, but let us now talk a little bit about these NGOs that were present or the representatives of the European Parliament. Some of you mentioned today, Nota Bene, Mr Kukan and Mr Flekenstein mentioned, were directly envoys, representatives of the current president of the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee and were present in this capacity. You know, one and the other are very correct people, and that's what those who agree with them and who disagree with them will tell you. We, not a small number of times politically disagreed, but here I'm telling you, that doesn't mean we think they're incorrect people. But let them say what's going on now that we've reached the final point on the list. Are the conditions right now? Who is correct among them? They will say to you, "That is what we have agreed, "If there is one word, we will not be able to add more." If they're correct they'll admit today - that's right. After all, when we talk about what Europe thinks, some also mentioned Tanja Fajon and Vladimir Bilchik, just a reminder. During the last stay here they were in the company of the European Commissioner, Mr Varhelji and with all due respect, it is known who leads the delegation and whose word is most important. You know what the European Commissioner said, since he was asked directly by these journalists who are trying in every way to draw up a statement here and there, which they will then wave and say – here, does Europe think something is wrong? They asked him -- well, now if elections were held, would they be fair and democratic, expect them to hear what they don't know, and this man told them well -- the free and fair elections in Serbia are there. They're here, we've got them. He told them – we can say, I quote you now – the conditions are fulfilled, but it must be passed on to the people. Give it to the people. What's the problem? So it doesn't matter if it's the current, today active members of the European Parliament or anyone else in Europe. Did we do what we agreed? We did. Did we do more than that? We did. The conditions are met, it should be told to the people. Here, tell it to the people. NGOs, Mr. Krlic, I'm glad you mentioned that they had a significant interest in this process that you've been conducting before your committee the previous days. I'm glad to hear they attended and agreed with you that everything was done according to the highest standards possible. If I understood correctly, they also put positive comments on the subject on their website. It's one of those NGOs. And there should be honest, some among them are more correct than others, although I can't say that we have agreed with anyone here on the subject of the fundamentally important measure, which we have also voted here, and this is about reducing the level of censorship from five to three percent. Guys, say it freely. It's fair to say it openly. In that sense, there have never been better conditions in Serbia to go to the polls. So when was the lower threshold? Never. At five, we're down to three percent. On a republican level, he was never like that. At the local level, we returned the one who had raised him from three to five, because he was trying to sabotage at that point some parties he thought threatened him at the bar, but here and at the local and republican level, in particular, it's so good that you can never say it was better. We did not agree here with these NGOs, only they know why, when they say – nothing can change in months before the elections, and they forget, or have nothing to say when we ask them – how was it okay to change four electoral laws in December? And you said, and the Euro MPs said and we agreed, okay, we'll do it because it will improve election conditions. Then everything was fine. Today they can't get out of the question how they can in December, and they can't get out 15 days later. There's no explanation, but you know, and those amendments to the law, four laws are one of the things we did for the first time. For the first time in multi-party history, you have defined exactly what public resource is, what exactly is meant by campaign actions, what is abuse, what cannot, what cannot, what are different OEPS missions from year to year. From 2003 to 2003, but from year to year when they came to the elections, they put into their conclusions – it should be defined by the laws, it is not clear, it is not accurate, it is consistent with free interpretation. Here's the first time you've defined my laws precisely, and you can't be a man, if it's fair to say anything but honor, it is. But they won't admit much just because, once again, they don't think they have a receipt. When we talk about NGOs, did these same organizations talk a year and a few more days ago – not good National Assembly, not good congregation practice, so you said the same thing they did – it was too much of an emergency procedure, right? No matter what we've explained, there are other countries in the environment and more and they think it's normal there, and you're salting our minds here, but it doesn't matter. You've been talking a lot, you've been saying that they're bothering the amendments when someone on this side takes them, and it doesn't matter when they take them from this side, but ours is a great sin. You said there wasn't enough public listening, you said there wasn't enough discussion about the budget, etc. Did we tell you and these NGOs -- it's no problem, do you think it's a dispute? You have no problem, you'll see in a few months from today, it'll all be just like you said. Let's see, you want to be honest about what happens then - I'm taking off my hat, good job, that's what we wanted, and now it's great, and what happened? Five percent, I think, of last year's emergency procedure was in this assembly. When in history was that? Never. I mean, literally never, like there's never been a monitoring board you've been looking for. Now we've adopted him, and you've never adopted him, but it doesn't matter. How many public hearings are there? More than ever. How many times have you, when were you able to put on the agenda some proposal from an opposition representative, done so? Zero. And now we've done, not once, twice, it seems to me in the last year alone. One also concerns these amendments to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, one concerning the proposal to discuss the AP Vojvodina. We did it the first time, and when were there such examples on the other side? Not only did we do it, but we asked – now come on you from the NGO sector, say that's what we've been looking for, well done. The answer was no, we won't, it's too soon. What's too soon? Because there's still no budget debate, so if there's a budget debate and if there's a special agenda point and if there's a double time to argue, then we'll admit that you've done everything. And there was a budget, it was on time, and it was a special point for discussion, the only point for discussion, it was in double time. We ask – what would you do now? Are you going to be honest now to say all the honors and everything is according to the highest standards and everything is better and more quality than anywhere in Europe that we know? They say, "Well, well, here we will confess." You know how they confessed? Here is from the “Crite” website – the 2020 budget was adopted, a step on a long stick to essential control. But you confessed, and you commended. It says -- it was adopted as we asked, but it's only a step on a long stick. They also say, they boast of it – in Paris they said that all that was adopted, what they were looking for, in which they participated, is not considered enough, because they say – the results in the elections will be in disputed electoral conditions. Is this fair? Is this correct? Involved in it, did everything we agreed, you yourself were able to define along with us solutions and when we did everything we agreed, you went out to say there in Paris to someone – there would be controversial electoral conditions. When I say incorrectly, I mean this also for congregation practice and for the matter of this job that we have done together by improving electoral conditions in Serbia. These are also direct questions for the CRTU, and for everything else, for NGOs, and they might say a few words to others who took part in this. So they ask, and what did you put the opposition's proposals on the agenda twice over the last year? What were only two, and what was only zero, doing everyone who was able to do it before us? You go to a rally in front of the presidency together, shake fences and paint selfies, on that. And which was just zero and then everything was great and good, and now it's two small. And what you're only campaigning under the title - democracy, trembling with fear, let's not give it. And where does democracy tremble with fear? Is it where we choose the representatives of the opposition on boards and on the REM Council? Is it where the opposition holds all the media they want and television and daily newspapers and Sundays, where it trembles with fear? And they say -- but we're not saying that we should vote for these or those, but we're trembling because we want something else, we want to fight together. Now let me ask you one thing. What is the essence and what is the proposed solution to those who are wrong, who, when you do everything you've agreed to and do it best in history, I repeat again, in the history of multiparty, and when you do more than anyone has hoped, nothing is wrong again. What's their solution, what's their proposal? They don't care, their conditions are nothing, and they won't go to elections at all. The former regime will not, whoever will not, not Gilas, not Jeremic, will not be the Jehoshaphatite of the Dvora. I'm not sure about the others. Zelenovic looks like he will, Paunovic looks like he will, Stamatovic will for a long time, will these, too, will they? I don't know. I'm not sure. Because I see this Ljotic man saying, he wants to go to power without a choice and across the street and he says, "Be careful what a great hero it is and what a smart politician it is." The rest of you, you, Zelenovic, you Paunovic, you Stamatovic and those in Old Town, come on, you block your municipalities and cities, come on, sabotage the election day, to hold the election process, and we'll challenge the belay. You do it, you risk being prosecuted, and I'm a brave angry man, I won't, but I'll come to defend you, I'll come not to give you up. And what does he want? Does this mean, I don't know how you interpret this, that it's an open call for people to conflict with each other, to conflict with the state, to provoke violence on the street, a conflict that could lead, what in any escalation, is it possible that someone is dreaming of civil war, as a happy solution to anything, political here? I'm almost done, sentence or two. Who can support this? So, just the one I'm ending up with, who's the problem with admitting Serbia's successes. What is the problem with recognising Serbia's successes because people see them with their own eyes? Look at the Financial Times, you seem to be talking about it today, Mr. Vice President. Is it not a problem for respected people from the world who are seriously dealing with an analysis of the economic situation to say, here, today that text came out and Serbia is, I quote, one of the European economic stars. Why do they say that, explain it. Because she's been rebirthing her economic situation since 2012, when she was on the verge of the abyss, people say. It has become a stable economy, continuously recording the growth of early investments, GDP, the level of public debt, etc. We're champions by investment, they say unemployment is below 10%. So, all the things we say and what people see with their eyes, one can admit, one can admit, if it's correct enough and fair enough, and it's important to know that these results are not only in our economy, but also in the case of the level of democracy and freedom achieved, they came at this very time, it was difficult for someone to admit it, or not, but the fact is that it was precisely the time that Alexander Vukic, SNS, when our policy was being implemented and when you asked Mr. Vukadinović, who is going to believe who tomorrow with this situation in the country? It is not so important to whom the representatives of the European Parliament or the International Financial Institution trust. You know what's most important? The most important thing is who the people trust. This people when you ask, and they will be questioned again in about two months, that people clearly, loudly, unequivocally say, trusts Alexander Vukic, believes the SNS, that this country can build a future with success because it follows the policies of honest and capable people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71337	The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. All right, you'll get your turn, colleague Vukadinovic. We follow some rules, some order, don't get angry, please, we have time, and we'll argue all day if we have to. Here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71338	Here, I expected my colleague to make an argument that this is a professional and organisational strengthening of REM, these personnel solutions to go in that direction, to stand in the way of riding, to get in the way, literally savagery, when it comes to electronic media. You have been announced for several days on one of these extra-legal television hacks on the president of the Republic, and I think, we expect Serbian radicals you will organisationally and professionally strengthen REM, so REM will react. And you confirm to us what we have presented as the fact that you have done everything under pressure, these have resigned, and you have brought people to satisfy the form, not professionally and organisationally to strengthen. As for the warning, fellow, we Serbian radicals have said since day one, change the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, right, did we say that the restrictive Rules of Procedure, right? Did we say public service management needs to be changed, did we say that? It needs to be a different relationship, those who manage the funds that this state is setting aside to function as a public service, right? What's wrong with that? We used to say that in time. We did say that the election law is changing. All these changes proposed by us Serbian radicals were supposed to start here in this parliament, in parliament to discuss whether there would be a session, whether there would be another form, it doesn't matter, but to talk. What did you say? You said the Rules of Procedure brought those before us, but you benefit from that Rules of Procedure. What you said, RTS management, that's something that's according to the standards of Europe. You are calling for Democrats and European standards. When it comes to electoral law, one of the demands on which the SRS insisted that one of the most serious crimes be buying and putting pressure on those who have the right to vote, and you are now in a situation. It is time for a relative colleague, not you, but Mr Marinkovic, and Mr Marinkovic, you still have that democratic tolerance, do not let the MPs treat you like this. Either equally all of us should behave with respect or all of us so boldly and rudely speak to you, that they will extend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71339	Thank you, colleague Mircic. You're free to say, there's no need for me to extend the time and Mr. Orlic, you could talk a little longer without any problems, so I'm really looking for everyone to be represented enough and to have enough time, or whatever it is they own. The right to replica now has Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71340	So, Mr. Orlic, as I said, I have no problem confessing or commending or finding something that is a fact. You mentioned me several times, of course it's true that we're with these two now, that five out of nine REM members will be elected, of course I'll confirm it, nod my head and whatever you want. I don't have a problem with that. Whether we choose independent, independent autonomous personalities or not, we will see that when they step into office, when we see practice, whether there will be changes in practice in the work of REM. We've changed people, and we'll see if the practice changes. It has not been good so far, and as I said, in the way they resigned, it just confirms that some of them were not autonomous even while doing their duty. Speaking of admitting a mistake here today, a little bit of an hour, no one admitted when I found out, nor do I expect an apology, it doesn't matter, since I'm directly called and mentioned that they don't visit me on these little shows and influences that I have. I'm trying to call the representatives and the authorities and the opposition both for the boycott and for the boycott. I say since four shows were fellow Djukanovic, your colleague Djukanovic has also been visiting me and my colleague Sormaz. Two from the ruling coalition, of four. And one of these oppositions has been so ugly and critical, one of these two, which you keep talking about here and not getting out of your mouth, Gilas-Solak, so you wouldn't be so effective at mentioning and calling these people, although you're trying so hard. I mean, I'm open, it's not a problem to hear every voice, but the problem is with you, with the ruling majority and you and your colleague Orlic, which you represent the state of the Assembly that was perfect and in society, and then you've improved it perfectly or almost perfect, and I say the opposite. The situation was absolutely unacceptable, it fell below each level, and then certain formal corrections were made, I did not take notice, I also admit to the presidents of the European Commission, that formally in the work of the Assembly some deteriorations were made. Practically and practically not implemented enough and not to quote, here's my example, I can give an example, but it's been two and a half minutes. Thank you. No more, I'll leave for the next line. So, for example, according to counterpart Ševarlic, yesterday as he treated the chairman, it shows that in practice these things are not respected that as much equal treatment as the MPs of the government and the opposition are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71341	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Here's what we're trying to do. Really, I mean, it's no problem, I would never interrupt you in half a sentence or half a thought that you wanted to express, so don't worry. Here you go. We have plenty of time to discuss. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71342	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 103. Mr. Chairman, try to keep these replicas up to two minutes. It's just that my two minutes sort of get together, at least that's what it seems to me, maybe I'm subjective, maybe I'm not objective, but I have an understanding for the previous speaker. Here, if his colleagues agree to multiply two minutes by 1.35. That's that national minority coefficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71343	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, and I'm responsible for telling you that no chairman has absolutely no intention whatsoever of discriminating you, so you know only. (Marian Risticevic: You can see I've collected my two minutes.) ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71344	Literally each of the questions you've raised right now concerns just the good evidence of how well the stories that some big press is, let's have a terrible dictatorship, autocracy, and you already know what's being invented. The question, let's say, of this Rules of Procedure, is true. And when you say it yourself -- we didn't adopt it -- it wasn't us who wrote it, but the previous government did it and wrote it, what does it tell you? We don't have any problem with the same arches that others made, we apply to ourselves and to others, if one point we changed ourselves willingly, everyone would say you brought in an autocratic dictator's Rules of Procedure one of your own, and now here you're exorcising justice on us. Well, no, everything you've come up with yourself, as you've written, that's how it's used today, just like election laws. You know, we haven't talked for no reason - people, election laws are the same ones that you wrote and what they applied in your time, applied in 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017, and in the end when you started speaking on your own against your laws, against what you wrote that it was unfair, and I don't know what, and you're asking to advance. You said -- come on, sit at the table with us, and we'll make it better. And we've done it all, we've even, I say and I underline, made it even better than anyone has ever been able to propose. When did you have a census like this? Never. We did everything else to fix what you wrote yourself. And that question, Rules of Procedure, did we say that there was no problem? We said openly that we could talk about it and if it had to change, it would change. But you know what's needed here? A broad consensus is needed. Well, when someone across the street says - I'm not going to participate in anything, nothing's wrong with me, I won't even come when you call me, what kind of consensus is that, and then how much does it make sense to talk about anything further, like they didn't want to come to a dialogue that was being held in the National Assembly? Some have not even honored to come and be present. Some require that the public service be under stronger control by the National Assembly. Didn't you give us the best possible compliment on what a dictatorship and autocracy is like here? You say – there is no parliament control over public service. We agree, there isn't. Is that not proof to you that simple lies are meaningless, all stories on the subject of us making and controlling things there? So, when Zelenovic spoke on behalf of Djilas, Jeremic, Ljotics from Dvora and others at the time - we ask that the parliamentary majority replace everything from RTS and we tell them – people, do you even know what you're saying? By law, we don't have any interference there, we don't have any influence. They didn't believe us. Today you say – we were right all the time, there is no control of the Assembly of Public Service, it should not be. Mr. Vukadinovic, you've said a lot of things, but I haven't heard what I asked to hear. Whether or not you apologize for unfairly accusing our representatives in the Assembly Committee of wanting to choose one of their candidates through the Chamber of Commerce here.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71345	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukainovic. You have up to three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71346	Thank you. To pick up where I left off. I had no problem finding certain shifts in formal work and the way parliament sessions are scheduled, following these pucks and criticisms by the European Commission in April and the incomplete report, indeed the president has taken steps and these phantom amendments, which when I called them phantom, mostly I received warnings and penalties from the chairman, and then quietly gave up the ruling majority. You know best how many of your colleagues and MPs also felt that this was largely farsiastic and did not want any part of it, at least some of them to participate. Also, the way the session was scheduled has remained, in practice, as I said, hasn't changed much. When I said I wouldn't point out my example, although it's quite eclectic and obvious, I said, but I ended it before my colleague Chevarlic was interrupted two, three times yesterday by the chairman, you weren't there, but anyway, we were because he wasn't talking about the agenda point. So here everyone's talking about everything, calling out whoever they want, regardless of the agenda, criticizing literally and spit out everyone in the opposition or out of public life who at that point resented them. Only a colleague, Ševarlic, "broken a car" to say - is not talking about the agenda point. What are we talking about? So one, one, and one and a half MPs of the opposition can't tolerate it, so you can tolerate 40, 50 or 80 MPs of the opposition here? So the point is, you've gone too far. You've been, uh, respected colleagues. Any exaggeration is paid and returned as a boomerang. Of course these are the previous ones, with whom you always put me in the same basket, but nevertheless, of course they have paid the price of an excessive pride and belief that they will rule forever. I think you have a similar syndrome. I think it's happening to you that you're just starting to believe your words. So, it was a wonderful, great state, but with its propaganda, Mr. Orlic and his media, that idyllic, fairy-tale painting. You say you -- Serbia trusts Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, and that will be shown, you say in the next elections. I'd rather say something else. She doesn't believe so much, they don't trust the citizens as much as you did here, they don't trust the others, they don't trust the opposition, and that's our problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71347	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71348	I didn't ask you a lot of stories. I didn't ask about yesterday's presentation of Mr. Chevarlic or any other third. I asked nicely in Serbian, clear and loud – do you apologize or not for unfairly accusing our representatives in the Committee on Culture and Information? Yes or no? You say you have no problem giving an apology when to do so. Now you have to. And you admitted to unfairly accusing people. You admitted that you proved wrong. Do you apologize for that or not? You're taking your head off. So no. All right. So much for how honest you were when you said you didn't have a problem with that. That's all I wanted to hear. As for the other things you said. You say – we believe our propaganda that everything in the congregation was in a certain way, and you know in which way it really was and we are wrong. Don't believe anything about me or mine, as you say propaganda, open up a nice Open Parliament site, that's not our propaganda, that's your propaganda, that's your propaganda, that's what the NGO of CRTA stands for, the one I talked about for a little while, so look at what your people tell you, who are the MPs who are in this assembly, the whole assembly, so for the last four years, were the most active in the sense that they've talked about most times in the assembly, by all means. Look at the first 15, 20, 25 as long as you like, so be honest with me to say how many of you, the representatives of the opposition, as many of them as there are even those who say they're boycotting and now say they've been having a hard time coming in for a year, a year and stronger in this plenary room, just getting paid and going to the restaurant, but a year and a few days don't say at all, which means they haven't been able to get to the top of that ranking list they've been talking about in three years. And then you explain to me, since it's your propaganda, not ours -- how did you manage to be such champions, such records, and I'm telling you, most of them are at the top of that table from your ranks, not ours, if in this assembly you couldn't speak freely, how? So these aren't our claims and our data, these are your claims and your data. I don't mind if we consider them true. Then how come you couldn't say that on the subject of what we're saying here and what it looks like and who believes it? Let me tell you, the last sentence, Mr. Vukadinovic, who believes it, is shown in the elections. So if someone thinks there's another, better way to get to power, he's just risking a mistake that can cost everything in this country dearly. By provoking street violence, by provoking seizure by breaking the inputs of RTS or breaking into the entrances of the National Assembly, and then introducing some of their justice, I don't know, motor saws or gallows, these people simply show that they don't know what they're doing, and that's what they call when, like this Bosko Obradovic and these other Gilas, they call for the day of the election to physically stop the people when they try to vote. There's no luck in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71349	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71350	Just for a little while. So, I think we'll see, as I said, whether or not these new elected REM members will be under control or not. It'll be seen from the way they work. After all, we didn't even choose today's candidates, so we don't even know who would be elected. In that sense, I can't apologize to you for that, as no one here apologized to me for directly, easily, empirically finding out that out of the four last guests on the show, two were from your ranks. Two of your colleagues here from parliament, from the ruling party. It's not even the coalition, it's the ruling party. It's a bit of a thing, but it just shows how much a college wave here is optional to claims. What's more important is what you mentioned and where I agree with one part of you. My presence here shows what I think about where power should change. Of course I'm against the government changing on the street. That's where he decides who's got a bigger beating or a longer stick. That's not the way. But I also spoke here, and I repeat, I think that the ruling majority consciously or unconsciously, sometimes I think consciously, and sometimes I think simply out of some negligence and arrogance, all of them did was push the opposition out of parliament with their practice and their behavior, but then they discovered some benefit. I don't believe that way. My presence here speaks of what I think of the boycott and what I think of the extra-institutional change of power. But not every vote is a choice, Mr. Orlic. Not every vote is an election, a democratic election. There are some assumptions that must be satisfied to be said then – here, you see, the people have said theirs. One of these assumptions is that everyone can hear anyone or at least most of the representatives of the government, the opposition on all media or at least the media with a national frequency. That wasn't the case from a year ago. Something's changed. My colleagues resent me for even mentioning it. I can't help but mention that over the past year, things haven't changed. She's changed, but not enough, and only under the pressure of part of the street and protest from the street, and partly because of pressure from an international factor. I wish we were alone or you realized that things needed to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71351	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71352	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. This is the fifth time we've been charged with media control in a very short time. I'm going to have to make an example of myself again. How do we, as a majority, have this control over the only television that's the founder of the state, where we can't even appoint the board as the ruling majority? We can't set up editors or set them up. All the editors were found by 2012. My wife and wife Orlic didn't work and don't work as editors at RTS. Wifes of individual opposition leaders, some of whom were live in the diary 16 times, worked or worked as editors at RTS. Now this personal example of mine. I live on RTS shows, as the most active MP, who hasn't boycotted sessions either when he was sick, live in RTS shows, outside the Assembly, just to tell you, despite the boycott, opposition MPs with one-third, have spent more live in RTS at sessions of time, than two-thirds of the ruling majority, and I live, off of this, on RTS have never been one. A colleague, Vukadinovic, was four or five times. Then how do I control RTS, he four or five times, and I don't once? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71353	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Marian Risticevic: No. ) National MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply to the presentation of MP Đorđa Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71354	Three things. The first concerns exactly what Mr. Risticevic was now talking about. Mr. Vukadinovicu, you're saying there's no public service, was there not, and now there's something a little different, enough of you and those of yours? Let me tell you something. As I recall, I can't remember, and I'd say I remember well, one single show where we were as participants, and if you weren't here, you in various forms. As I recall, I personally was on RTS three or four times and every time under the obligation was someone with me on that side of yours to talk about what he thought and how he was experiencing the world around him. Once there was the president of your parliamentary group, and to whom you belong, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, vice president of the Vuk Jeremic party, the one you say you don't know who he is, is not your name, and in fact man is a recordr in the number of occurrences in prime time in the Second Journal of the Public Service RTS, modest 16 times, which nobody ever went after the hand before him, and it seems he never will, but they were with me on the same show. Every time I was invited, there were people from the DS canceling. (Marian Risticevic: She was Hope Kolundji.) Two, three names canceled, sometimes sent a replacement, sometimes not, but he was necessarily present for someone else. There was Mrs. Kolundjia, too, that's right. She usually came as a substitute when these others ran away. Do you know what's interesting? The only time I've ever been on TV, it's also a public service, I've been on a show with Zelenovic, also yours, and now you're telling me we're heavy, and you're gone, and every time there's us, there's you, but that's why it happens to be you when we're gone. Did you see that maybe this Jeremic, who you don't know his name, this recorder of yours showing up in the second journal, was a single man in a prime, evening term right on that public service at RTS, in which I really don't know? Man doesn't have members today. So, it's so politically relevant and relevant, and there are no more members than, well, here's the truth, one president of the SNS Municipal Committee. It's literally that much. Have you ever seen one of our municipal board presidents leave so alone on a prime-time RTS and tell him what he wants? I've never seen it. More members than Vuk Jeremic in all of Serbia has our colleague Obradovic in his local committee, so to speak. It's his level of relevance, so there's room to say whatever he wants. This Zelenovic, the last thing I'm going to tell you, when you mention electoral malfeasance and vote buying, was convicted of his people in Shapcu. So the court and the prosecution found that they were buying votes, not ours. It happened in 2016 and they admitted it themselves. Last thing. You accused our people of wanting a man who's proposed by the Chamber of Commerce to choose now at this session today. That man, Mr. Vukadinovic, didn't even come to today's session. So, as a suggestion, he doesn't exist here because he fell off earlier. He was eliminated before this session. You accused us of something that obviously won't happen, and when I ask if you're giving an apology to the people you accused, I ask for it, and I expect it briefly, correctly – yes or no, no longer stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71355	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71356	Mr. Orlic, history doesn't begin, nor does your authority for the last year. I said there are certain changes in this period, and all the examples you have cited are mostly the same in the last 13.14 months, the changes since the protests started in Serbia last December, now already last December, and since the European Commission and the European Parliament were a little more interested in the situation. Before that, the situation was catastrophic both in the congregation and in the media. I say, there are some shifts. You probably think and don't make too many mistakes, that you've created such an advantage of this previous media domination that it costs you nothing and it doesn't cost you much to give in, at least because of the illusion and now democracy. No, the media situation is bad. You now convince the data, of course I know who Vuk Jeremic is, is not at all controversial, but how many years has he been present live in the Dnevnik and that now you're steaming or that he's been visiting a few weeks or two days ago, what does that matter? Your party's president, who was not yet party president and, as opposition leader, also hosted live on the same mission, in the same "Eye" in 2011, to announce his rally, then the opposition SNS. He was alone. So, what I'm saying is that some of the leaders of the opposition show up alone, and not all the time in the sandwich, parallel monologues with the representatives of the authorities, which you were very good at, in these performances, in the sense that you speak continuously over or parallel with that representative of the opposition present. So it can and logically be heard on a 20-minute show I am a representative of the opposition, by some choice, by some criteria of relevance. So, it shouldn't be a precedent that you now state to me Mr. Jeremic's case, but actually it should be a regular practice, as your leader, Alexander Vukic, said, and when he wasn't even president of the party, he was visiting live in RTS there somewhere in 2011. So that's what it's all about. Since it's been two minutes, no, I said we'd see if there'd be, how independent they would be. I didn't dispute the personalities, just for a second, I challenged and considered that proposing, thought that some of the promoters were under and close to the authorities, because they're gathering organizations that are close to that authority and I'm still saying it, and the individuals that are proposed, we said that they all formally meet the criteria and I'm not entering their competence, neither these two proposed, nor those four. But, therefore, if you really think that the situation in the media is good, if you think the situation in the Assembly is good, waving data that at the top of the list of speakers here in the Assembly opposition MPs, then you live in that illusion. Well, when there are few or when there are few of us, of course we'll be at the top of the list of most active ones. (Vladimir Orlic: Is this a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce? Is this a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce? But the relationship, the treatment of them as well as the fact that now, you now, again, it's the camera recording, the viewers don't see it, you're now talking parallel to me, and you complain when your colleagues here on the side of you are getting it while you're talking, and now you're talking to me all the time. Not to mention that someone keeps answering the Rules of Procedure, because they don't want to go into replicas. Nothing. That's it. I think the public will judge, don't live in the illusion that the situation is good, and don't think that what the opposition stands weak, and that's what my own shows is a sign that they love you very much and that they trust you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71357	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman of a violation of dignity, member of 107 for who knows which time. This time I ask to vote on it because the injury you do is not being reminded of the previous speaker again. To remind you that in 2012, the opposition had zero media, it was represented in Copernicus, two or three hours in the leased period, and that was all. Now they say that since the protest, a little media image is better. Well, I don't remember that a year ago a paper called "Today" was founded. I know that since 2012 "Today", "Blic", "Time", "NIN", "Sunjnik" are opposition newspapers and magazines. I know that the previous speaker, so I say that the violation of dignity is a little more difficult, is the owner of one media that is not registered as a medium, but as an association of citizens, just to bypass the law, manages the show in another medium, is more represented by the most active MP in the National Assembly, and I still claim that the opposition, despite a year of boycotting spent more time in the Assembly in direct transmission, performing here than the ruling majority who has 2/3 of parliament. What kind of censorship is that, then? Tell me how we, Mr. Chairman, are giving up the vote, but tell me how to get people to read "Today" that has more newspapers than readers, "Time", "Blic", "NIN" etc. opposition newspapers and magazines, how do we get people to watch N1 TV, Nova S, Free TV, etc? How do we get people to watch it, to do it to them or to end up making people vote for them when they don't? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71359	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. You asked me a hard question, I don't know the answer to that question. Thank you. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71360	I have to tell you, Mr. Vukadinovic, that on two or three questions you've made me laugh like that, I think that's what you've seen. First of all, I have to admit, it's a little funny when you're trying to level the relevance of what's in 2011 or 2012, I don't know what year you mentioned exactly, but it doesn't matter, it doesn't make a difference. The relevance of Alexander Vukic and the SNS at the time to even it out with what you're doing today with this one of yours. So, let me remind you, at that time, Alexander Vukic was one of the leaders of the political party that was absolutely the largest and most significant in the country, and he organized the gathering that you mentioned, which, according to your sources, is your words, your numbers, gathered about 100,000 souls, and now you're trying to even it out by the importance of having 50 or 100 of you gathered together and headed along with Bosca Obradic to hit here with the flag of Serbia the front door of the National Assembly, does it seem to make any sense to you? Not to me. Does that seem funny to you? I think it's funny. To compare absolutely cannot, but you see and then you want to say – Alexander Vukic joined in for a few minutes, so that's the same thing when you now go to Public Service all night, in prime time, you're talking to yourself, and you don't have a brother one-tenth of the people behind you that Alexander Vukic had, and thirty people behind him, as much as Alexander Vukic has today. It's all funny to me, to tell you the most honest way. The other thing, you say, the MPs sitting there on that side of yours are a little bit in this assembly, which is why they're at the top of the list. It's totally funny. Let me explain how it works. You can be five, and you can be 150, but when you're not given a word, and you claim not to, then how many conversions do you have in this congregation, each of you? A little bit, isn't it? When you talk as much as you want, when you speak and when you don't have to and when you have nothing to say and when you don't have anything to say, whenever you want to, then you have a lot of conversions, and they show your rank lists, and they're making your CRTA. It has nothing to do with how many of you are, it only has to do with how much you talk. You claim we won't let you speak, and your rank lists show you're talking for all the money. So, another sentence, that's also funny to me, what I don't think is funny, you won't run away from the answer. You accused us of wanting a candidate proposed by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to vote at this session, and then, as a proposal, that candidate did not come. So we certainly won't vote him. You owe Mr. Vukadinovic an apology not to me, but to those people you told in the eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71361	Mirko Krlić answered the question, Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71362	Just for a little while, I don't want to interrupt this controversy, but the truth is, I need to read one piece of information that's been mentioned here repeatedly in the direction of public service control by the ruling party. In information emissions of political content, the president of the country, prime minister and ministers 36%. This is the data you can verify, I believe you have a way to check it, so 36% of the total SNS, i.e. executive power, ministers, our opposition that weighs at this time in 2019 or in elections certainly has over 60% is 36% represented. Is that control, absolute control of the Public Service? Is it called political domination over Serbia's media image?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71363	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic, for your understanding, we can move on. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Just for a little while.) Okay, you have the right to a replica. Here, I thought I'd finish the circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71364	We'll end up, but only colleagues, Krlić, to say, I don't know this information now, I'll look at it, I also know some other information when it comes to representation and the same relevant sources that I can state, from BRODI and beyond, who said that in the presidential election campaigns in 2017, as well as in the city, or Belgrade 2018, media representation with national frequency, although they are criteria and N1, but above all those media with national frequency, the share of authorities was over 90%. So, you only took political shows, which are usually a little bit inadmissible on RTS, us to the Public Service, and then you measured the presence and appearance of a representative of the government. Do you think, and you skipped all those morning programs, all those special shows, they're full of TVs with national frequencies that serve for months, for years only to promote and propaganda the ruling party and the first people of this country and of course to spit on absent opposition representatives. If you had put in these various morning programs and all kinds of special shows, then certainly the percentage would have been different. But if you want to convince someone that the opposition, whatever it is, has it all, we're not in the same basket at all, so that she's privileged by the media, and that the government of the poor is tight and that there's no space at all, then believe it still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71365	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever George Vukadinovic appears today, you have a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107. Let me remind you, this is where the frequencies are mentioned. Now I ask you, at a time when Boris Tadic shared money from Luttria, who shared national frequencies with the media? Who shared the national frequencies of that Greek, two frequencies of TV to First, B92 or what was it called, TV Fox, etc? Who shared those frequencies with Happy Telephysi? Who shared the frequencies, like national television, who shared the frequency of PINK TV? Who even broadcasts it to B92 even on PINK, when it broadcasts the frequency of PINK TV? So, at the time, someone was defending that power in the air, someone was winning the lottery. I ask – when someone like that advocates freedom of the media, why doesn't he say that at that time when they shared frequencies with their own, they were their own, even in REM, and the frequencies were shared, so regional, and local, and so national? I'm asking you who got the guns into BK TV? Who eliminated one of the best TVs seen in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia? Because Bogoljub Karic was their political opponent. Who took the political opponent's television so he couldn't have his own program? Let's see who got into "Kurir" with the guns? Let's see who banned a few printed media? Let's see who arrested Rodic, the owner and editor of the printed media? And today they're talking about freedom of the media, sharing frequencies. They have "Today", "Blic", NIN, "Time", N1, which falls along with protesters in the state RTS to encourage public broadcasting, allegedly from Luxembourg, is, incentivising demonstrations of people who complain that they are not enough on TV, and are not being taken off the television daily. We can't make people watch N1, we can't make people watch New S, we can't make them read their printed media. And that's the problem. We can't get them to vote for them. That's why he wants power on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71367	Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic. Dr. Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71368	Now that we've moved on to interesting statistics, someone thought we could do it now. I remember that story. It was a story from 2017. That's when you talked - over 90% was Alexander Vukic in the media. I remember that well. Maybe you think we forgot. We haven't forgotten anything. Well, then we've established what? Then we took a nice look at your research. As you can see, it's the most beautiful and sweetest when we use your sources to show you how things are, just like I just did, when I instructed you to look at yours from "The Line" of the Open Parliament, so I see that you've figured that out. You won't talk about it anymore. Great. We also took your sources at the time, that is, that is, your BRODI research, which is, to remind you, declared by Dragan Gilas, Jeremic and these court members of your professional staff, as one of your experts who wrote those fantastic proposals on how to advance the election process, so that Alexander Vukic will be banned from participating in the election. Now, that BIRODI of yours was then published in his research -- Alexander Vukic in those elections was a candidate, pay attention, as a candidate 17% in the media, not ninety and something, but 17%. The second thing you're saying is, when Alexander Vukitch does something good, for example, open a factory somewhere or, for example, a factory. receive an important guest from the world, a representative of the Russian Federation, a People's Republic of China, a European official, so it's in the news and someone performs it, completely statusally neutrally, as the fact today happened and that, the man and that one, received it by Aleksandar Vukic. Then you take it, and you count it, and you say, "No, it's all his campaign in the media." Well, it's not. These of yours, obviously yours, on your side in every way hate us to the balks and lie to us. Now, you said as candidates, it was 17% at that time, so you jumped and groped right away -- no, that's a lie, that's a lie, but you couldn't deny it. You could only confirm that it was listed in your sources. So that's the thing you should know. The second, which we reminded you of back then, it doesn't matter how you're presented in the media. It's not just a question of whether you're represented at a certain time interval or not, the question is how. And then we told you and the data showed, your data. Alexander Vukic then, perhaps with the exception of one or two televisions, had the most convincing relationship of positive and negative content. So it's very important that people know. It's not nice when you say - ten minutes were talked about Alexander Vukic, and out of those ten eight of you spoke negatively about him, to say - and that's why he profited the most in the media world. Mr. Vukadivnović, a lot of television, a lot of daily newspapers, absolutely all Sunday newspapers, as much as you want, which every day run an unfeeling negative campaign against Alexander Vukic, you cannot present as his presence in the media that goes in favor of him. It's one structure that citizens simply won't swallow, and it's precisely because they won't, because Serbian citizens today support Alexander Vukic, among other things, see what kind of injustice you've been doing to him all along.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71369	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Mirko Krlić has the right to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71370	It's not nice and it's not polite to twist words. I wasn't talking about broadcasters with national frequency, I was talking about the Public Service directly, about information emissions of political content. I read the data. So, the President of the Republic together with the prime minister and all ministers, which is not only representatives of the SNS, but also of our coalition partners, together have a representation in 2019 of 36%. In 2019, 36%. I'm not surprised we get very similar information from those who want to go to the election and who won't go to the election. I see it's a very nicely played combination, some that come, don't come, appear, no. In addition to respecting the Committee and monitoring the work of the Assembly and coming and when we agree and disagree, it's all nice, but I had a chance to attend the RTS Programme Council meeting a month and a half ago. And that's exactly what you're saying today by Professor Veljanovski. Unbelievable. He says it's okay, and that's what he says in the RTS building, that in every other diary, Alexander Vukic speaks for 15 minutes. A man like that says it's just amazing. This man is training people in political science today. He's giving lectures, he's raising kids. He's lying in a house he came to as a guest. Is that the level of the future Serbian opposition or those of whom we should be anxious in the next elections?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71371	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71372	I don't mind if we finish this round of replicas, but since both colleagues and colleagues Krlić and colleagues told me and, I would say, made a material reference in a very difficult way, I just have to say for a short while. Let's not go crazy, let's not fool ourselves. Mr. Krlić, here, I now give you the right to finish, you are authorized in front of the Committee anyway, do you really think that the government is damaged, disabled in the media presence in the Serbian media? We can try to change that image, the various percentages, and take it out of context. Yeah, Sundays, I agree, the weekly thing is different. Weekly people, at least those who are recognizable, are critical of power. But the total circulation of the weekly isn't bigger, it's smaller than one average tabloid. Let's try it this way, all the televisions with the national frequency, all the televisions with the national frequency, Mr Krlić, of course, and Orlic, if you want to finish, so all the daily newspapers, except for one daily newspaper, support power in Serbia. That's a fact. I don't know how, I mean, can anyone suspect that. You are here in these discussions making an impression that there is some phalange, a fearsome, media that is about to lead the pogrom and persecute the ruling coalition and Mr. Vukic. So, vice versa, all of these frequencies are constantly, permanently called by the opposition and when it should be called and when it should not be. So, I'm not going to be anyone's lawyer and my position here, I'm saying, just because I'm here, it shows one distance from some of the opposition, but I can't ignore the basic facts that no one can deny, that power has been here for years, seven years, here, for eight years, very dominant. If it had been great before, I'm not going to say it, but the fact is that the leader of the opposition at the time was visiting, not two, three minutes live at Dnevnik, Mr. Orlic, but had half an hour on the "Eye" show. Mr. Vukic was not the president at the time, but was the deputy president of the SNS, and this is where the drama rose because he once visited the eye of one of the opposition, Vuk Jeremic. It takes every other week or every other day to host one of the leaders of the opposition, so if they're so bad, if they're so lame, then the people will ignore them and reject them. After all, your colleague Djukanovic often suggested, at least officially, but there is no such thing in the practice of electronic media. In practice, in fact, someone from the opposition only appears as the target of an attack or in a sandwich, between two representatives of the opposition, most often also a leader who favors authority. For the last time in many years, I was on TV "O2", live, a few months or a month, two days ago. The chief concern of the leader was that I wouldn't happen to say anything against the authorities and Alexander Vukic. Of course, you can criticize the opposition, you can talk about the opposition's relations, and that's even desirable, and if you talk about power and Alexander Vukic, then the problem is, then you can't. So he was a martyr in fear that I wouldn't say something wrong at the expense of the government. It's a media picture in Serbia, and you can tell these percentages -- statistics, our Dick, what he wants and what he paints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71373	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71374	Statistics, your Dick, your BRODI and your Dick, your CRTA, your Open Parliament and your Dick, like your media about which these are yours, too, so beautiful reports made that they don't fit you, so you can't explain them. So, about getting along. I can't help it. I just have to smile whenever I hear it. Are you telling me today that you are as politically important as Alexander Vukic in 2012? Mr. Vukadinović, are you really serious when you say it? (Marian Risticevic: What's the party's name? So, it doesn't matter what Mr. Vukadinovic's party is called, he's something impartial now, I don't know what it is. So, you or Vuk Jeremic or whoever you want to be as politically important as that man at that time who was, you say, another man, well, be another man, the biggest and most important political party in Serbia and at that moment. Do you remember the election results that year? So I'm telling you, and you know I'm telling you the truth, today none of your leaders, here, have to personally refer to you, but none of your leaders, or your Gilas, or your Jeremic, or your Lutovac, have a tenth of the vote behind them as far as the SNS represented by Alexander Vukic, part ten. Now you're telling us it's the same thing. No, there's no drama when your leaders who have 1% each, 2% come to public service today. We're not making drama about it, we're just showing you how big our dictatorship is. In that dictatorship of ours so terrible, well, it happens and it's normal there. With me were on these shows you and 2016, and 2017, and 2018. It has nothing to do with the things you were talking about. And then, let me remind you, 2016, 2017, whenever you will, except for maybe one or two private televisions, pay attention, therefore, to all other private TV and public services you have better listed yourself in the content of programming reports you and your leaders than Alexander Vukic. When you compare positive and negative content, when you make them a coefficient, so you understand what I'm talking about, it doesn't matter if you're 100% praised, or 10% praised, and 90% cascades. There's a difference, right? So this quantitative relationship was on all these media in favor of these people of yours, not for the benefit of Alexander Vukic. The daily press, so let's not talk at all. Which one of yours had as Alexander Vukic and in 2017, for months, it seems to me, a hundred days every day, but every day of God, something against himself, his family, his surroundings on the cover? He had a complete campaign that lasted for months. How then, then? (President: Thank you. ) Mr. Vukadinovicu, I don't mind us talking about things in Serbia, but that story of yours and that concept of yours -- it beats, and the hook, it just doesn't buy in Serbia. People believe with their eyes and know how things really are, and you owe that apology to our board members that, you know, I won't forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71375	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is Mirko Krlić, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71376	Yes, you mentioned the need and the right picture in the media sky of Serbia, and I must say, that someone would be in the media and that if personally he were responsible for the complete media picture, first of all, he would only be guided by one archaic. The government must have results to be represented in the media, and the opposition must have ideas. Winning the election brings either power that has results or opposition that has ideas. If the ideas are saws, motor, painting, assaults, breaking up of the national flag and everything else we see, if they're ideas, I'm not saying that it's media for someone not interesting, but it's not media content, it's not political content, it doesn't lead to anything good. You also mentioned Sundays. I think you first should be very critical of the weekly. You are a man of that generation, like me, who once recognized people who read NIN and "Politics". Today, NIN, to the great shame of this man wearing a mustache instead of a bang, this Culibrk, as it is already called, has allowed himself to make one of the biggest disgraces of the journalistic profession in Serbia, in one NIN, the titles being type, professor, academic citizen, our fellow MP, scientist, under the title – liar, thief or what I know. That's what happens in one NIN today. That's not the level of tabloids of the worst kind. To bring down such an institution, such as the NIN, which they were racing with at that time all week's editions in the complete SFRY, welcomed the Culibrck's mustache to bring down the lowest branch of information. As far as the tabloids are concerned, tell me one of the tabloids before 2000. It wasn't either. Who invented the tabloids? Whose product is this? Now that the beating has two ends, that's another problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71377	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. Thank you all for the discussion. We're moving on with our work. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, Mr Jahja Fehratovic reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71378	Thank you, Your Honor. After truly this exhaustive discussion, I, as someone who witnessed these negotiations, will say that it was one of the main insistences of the opposition's representatives to make this change happen in REM and that this is something they accepted and that they did not believe that the government would accept it. This shows the power of those who can make changes, that they have succeeded and shown their greatness. I don't think there's anything more fundamental and no more insistent on those who have challenged everything that's going on with REM. That's why today and these days, they're getting this argument out of their sleeves and it's actually showing that this society and these institutions have the strength to deal with all those challenges that are ahead of them, and that this institution is very important and that this institution will have its hands full over the next period. Of course, when we talk about REM, we don't just think about its role in these political shows and pre-election positions. It's very important and it's important that everyone has equal chances, equal conditions. However, the role of REM is far more important and important in all those challenges we face as consumers, regular consumption of all possible media that have been attacked both as a society and as individuals. According to our expectations, REM should indeed in the coming period and after these electoral processes to take seriously the overall media image in the Republic of Serbia, and especially its parts that strike on honour, the dignity of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Here I think of all the great reality shows that go beyond every kind of and good taste and every kind of normality. This should also be done by REM, and this should be particularly insisted because this body is responsible for the overall creation of what is allowed to be in the media and which is not and should not be allowed in any way. Of course, this political part is just one segment of his entire role and we hope that in this respect all those expectations that we all have together will come true. However, unless, in the coming period, REM does do something to promote the values of family, spiritual, traditional values of every citizen, which, especially at times when these so-called ones are involved, in this second part of everyday life, in the period ahead of us. reality shows, and other things, then his role won't be fulfilled. In the hope that all of this will change we will also support these changes, and especially what this has been, again, I repeat, the request of a certain part of the opposition and those talks that I attended this was their biggest request and they simply could not believe themselves that on the side of the majority they would take this step and that simply REM would be significantly changed in terms of their structure and view of what we are doing today and these days. This literally makes all these arguments simply melt and proves that in the next period, we will have every opportunity to participate in the electoral process and that it is on the citizens to whom, to whom, to what extent, to whom trust and to whom they ultimately want to say that they trust them and lead them, or to represent the state, and that all what they were the formal grudges of all of us, we have really had these images when it comes to REM and bitter experiences, here it seems to come to the moment when it will become a professional, independent body and when they will be able to comply with the constitution, with the laws and with the security doing everything prescribed by the definition of such a body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71379	Thank you, Dr. Fehratovic. Now the word has been made by Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71380	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I want all the winemakers and others who celebrate St. I would like to congratulate the Trifun on its fame and wish for a barbery year, noble and also to commend all those who seek to change the structure of agricultural production in Serbia, by increasing the participation of areas under vineyards and the processing of grapes into quality wines, which is why we are practically substituting or replacing imports, while improving the supply of our market and the potential for export. The second thing I want to say is, it is a question, that is, if the SRS has proposed one of the most qualitative members of REM, Dragomir Antonic, a well-known and recognized Serbian and international renowned ethnologist, author of numerous texts, shows, etc., this assembly majority and resolution committee had no understanding of such a thing, which is no wonder, because those who advocate rational values often have no passage in the congregation majority here. It's for concern - of the Cyrillic law which is brutally promised, so it's gone, etc. The second question I want to ask is, do televisions with national frequencies owe taxes? If they owe in such a profitable sector, why are they tolerated and not tolerated by the citizens for not paying one bill for the month for municipal expenses, so they still have the costs of five thousand and change - lawyers, six thousand and change - the costs of the executioner, and so the account of two thousand comes to about 13, 14 thousand or five to ten times as much as the basic debt, even though I think everyone should meet their debts? Obviously, the burden of paying debts is always primarily applied to farmers, pensioners and small entrepreneurs, and never to these large ones for which for many months we haven't had a chance to know how much they owe taxes, because it's hard to publish on the Tax Administration website. Next, we keep praising our politicians. If our politicians really are worth that much, why don't we sell them at the price they think they're worth and then import them at the real price at which the EU market recognises them? That's the case with athletes, that's the case with engineers, that's the case with everyone else. I've never heard of a Serbian politician selling himself, and I am for a number of experts. Next, it's been honored here so many times what was done in the previous period. Yes, it entered with long pipes into the National Bank of Serbia's Treasury, and then as a reward, those who were the leaders of it, became advisers to the current president. Is this an indication of how young people should behave and those who should succeed in Serbia? Is it the irresponsibility of public service that over a million counts is charged a public service fee and are not in the function of television? Is it the public service's responsibility not to protect the citizens from themselves? One million times the tax, figure out what the annual amount is. Furthermore, is this the responsibility of the Public Service that today is 135 and I don't know which day since the war veterans protest between the two most significant buildings in Serbia, between the National Assembly and the Presidency of the Republic. Although I've asked the president publicly three times to receive the veterans, he's received them once, as far as I'm aware, along with five ministers, and there's not a word ever since. They will welcome this year's Statehood Day under tents, in the rain, etc. No one knows what's going on with them. Why doesn't the public service make a show about it? He could have made 10 information a day for a cabbie strike, and he couldn't make war veterans. What is this attitude towards those who have defended this country, or are we about to betray Serbia or continue with mutilated Serbia on the road to the EU from which one of the most important members, who is a member of the Security Council, an atomic force, an internationally important political factor, etc., has come out? Shall we replace her there? Mutilated for Serbia's Kosovo and Metohija, is that how we feel about entering? Why don't we ask the citizens now in the elections to declare in the referendum whether we want to join the EU without KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia? Why not ask whether or not they are for GMOs, but that lobbyists of multinational companies decide that the four tomatoes are genetically modified or that the Deputy Prime Minister and Trade Minister say we are using GMOs in Serbia. What's he doing as a trade minister? I could speak even more, but just one more sentence, if you'll excuse me. Please, it's been said here that there's been a public debate about the final accounts. The final accounts from 2002 to 2028 were considered under one item of the agenda. Calculate the number of thousands of billion spent, without any amendments, there were, but they were withdrawn, without a single word, without any debate and what is most important, what Serbian citizens need to know, this regime has absolved previous regimes for any failures that have worked with the abuse of budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71381	Thank you, Professor. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71382	Cherry Tomatoes is not a competitor in the REM election, I'm sorry, there may be someone under that name. Run for it. You might have the right to do that. You're talking about a candidate from a few months ago. He was really a quality candidate, I can't argue with that, but at least as a national MP you could make so much sense to come to the board, which has the right of every MP in the Assembly, to speak there, to defend your attitudes, not to come there after two months in a folk costume, every honor to you, to love folklore and look nice and then to give us a lecture on what happened two months ago, if you were to lecture our politicians, here I would have you as an expert on all things and even for four tomatoes, along with REM suggested that you be the first to be on the list of export products of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71383	Thank you, colleague Krlic. I'm setting a break now for one hour, so we'll be back to work at 15.00 hours. Also, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87 paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass an act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71384	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71385	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, who often spoke about electronic media, have nothing special to say about candidates. I tried on the board to establish qualifications and I have to say that I'm slightly disappointed because I got the impression that the candidates haven't studied, say, the Law on Electronic Media, the Convention on Cross-border Television, so that they can control those who finance them. I tried to show them that the Law and the Convention on Cross-border Television clearly point to the difference between broadcasting and re-emission, that there is no re-emission without broadcasting programmes abroad, that this must be a simultaneous takeover and that it is forbidden to end, insert other content, advertising, for example, under Article 27. The advertising, marketing, etc., everything this School firm does. They are not required before they are chosen to know, but I must warn those who have been elected at the vote and those who have already been chosen to be careful, and I believe some colleagues, to observe their behaviour, their decisions, and above all their control of officials working there, for example, the Executive Director and the Secretary-General. Now that you ask a question about Article 2. Convention on cross-border television on re-emission, for Article 4. The REM Act, you will get an answer from them, from the Secretary-General and from the Executive Director – as the United Media argues, this is what happens. So, I ask REM, and then I hear from the Executive Director and the Secretary-General, who have large salaries that are greater than 129.000 dinars, and they tell me in response – how United Media claims, they program in some playout room processing, walking signal, etc., and it is technically considered re-emitation. It is as if they had asked the goat if she had eaten cabbage, and she had answered, as the other goat claims, the cabbage was not eaten, but it disappeared in a strange way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the domestic media is unprotected, and I've talked about it many times. So, when you have one store that's registered, it pays all the dues, and next to it there's a service store, it says -- I'm registered in Luxembourg, and I don't have to pay anything, our laws don't allow it, and neither does the Electronic Media Act. In such a situation, those who work regularly will pay. All REM employees receive salaries from electronic media, television and radio, domestic. So, all employees get money, they get salaries, they get paid by these domestic TV channels. I have the impression that only some are paid by the School, those who write answers. So I'm saying that they have to watch carefully what this service is doing, not just what answers they write, but that they strictly respect the laws, not just about broadcasting and re-emissioning, they have to establish the list of most important events, these sports transfers, which they have to broadcast by law, which they cover, is that right, Mr Krlic, the whole territory of Serbia. And this list of most important events has not been established for three years, which is widely used by Solak and sports clubs to transfer the team and thus increase the interest and number of subscribers for their channels because they do not cover the whole market, and they broadcast the most important events REM should list and could only be transmitted by national channels, RTS or others, which cover all of Serbia. That's right. Next, they have to force the service to inform the operators that national channels must be logically sorted, that's Article 100. The law on electronic media, that it must first go RTS, national channels, and everything else. It's against the law that Solak is doing, which is his channels, and he owns the SBB channel, lined up first and second. These are programs that 99% of their programme use to attack power, and sometimes the state of the Republic of Serbia, which I don't mind with their editorial policy, but it bothers me that they're fake cross-border channels, to put in commercials, to take bread to regulatory media. Now, that's what bothers me. This is what REM must do to force the service to respect the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Cross-border Television and the Law on Advertising. That's how they'll be arranged. Imagine all our channels acting as N1, like these School channels. Imagine all our national channels checking out and fictitiously registering in Luxembourg. Then who's going to pay the fee from which they're getting paid and the costs of these at REM? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71386	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71387	Thank you, Chairman. LSV MPs at the AP Vojvodina Assembly proposed REM candidate Slavisa Grujic for the reason that he was from Vojvodina, and the resignation was given by a candidate also from Vojvodina – Djordje Vosarevic, so they thought it would be good if a representative in REM from Vojvodina replaced a representative who comes from Vojvodina and lives in Vojvodina, could not only be registered at the address or is currently there. Slavisa Grujic said in his biography that the cameraman had finished the Film Academy in Moscow, that he was interested in the film, that he was an excellent cameraman, but also that he was the circuit secretary for culture and public information in the AP Vojvodina, which makes him in some way relevant to doing the job well in REM and represented in some way the duchy information. I will support this because I think the representative in REM should be from Vojvodina, because in some ways only the representatives of Vojvodina can understand this multiculturality, because it happens that our public services, such as RTS, Pink, etc. from year to year, from election to election, they never followed the election, I say from experience, they didn't follow, for example, elections for national councils of national minorities. We know well that public services are financed from the budget, and why cannot members of the national communities be represented at public services to the state, only on tv, which covers only the territory of the region of the AP Vojvodina? Not only do the national minorities who cover the AP Vojvodina live in Serbia, but other members of the national communities who would certainly like to be represented at public services such as RTS or Pink, for example. Simply, members of other national communities who, I say, live in other parts of the Republic of Serbia do not have their own programmes at public services and, in my opinion, it is not good. That is why we have thought and suggested and will support Slavisa Grujic for the reason that she knows multiculturalism, which knows information in the languages of national minorities and would surely advocate in REM to monitor the information and life of national communities, multiculturalism in the Republic of Serbia, and not just to say, in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71388	The word is from MP Mirko Krlić, who is proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71389	Well, here's a little bit, I can't agree with these reasons, because I think they're completely illusory. In the end, I'm going to say that we're three members of REM we picked last time, two from Vojvodina. Also, I can tell you, we don't understand your suggestion. You are proposing to be Mr. Grujic, and I agree that he is extremely good quality, and I said that everyone is good quality, even those two candidates who have not passed the second round. I really don't have any dilemmas, it's not about that, but your arguments are really a little hypocritical. Well, why aren't you for this lady proposed by the Society of Journalists of Vojvodina? So you're just interested in the one proposed by your parliamentary group. Well, if you're that much for Vojvodina, then you'd probably have to propose another candidate who's from Vojvodina, who's a college professor who has an exceptional career. I hope you looked at that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71390	Right on the line, MP Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71391	Well, of course, we've looked at and studied all the candidates, but it's the right of every parliamentary group to propose to its candidate and one. We have decided on Slavisa Grujic, which does not mean that we will not vote for any other candidates we see living in Vojvodina and will present Vojvodina as well. I think, however, that the lady who was proposed lives in Vojvodina from Nova Gradiška from Croatia, simply perhaps we do not see in some way that she will represent national communities to this extent and Vojvodina as Slavisa Grujic would represent. Everyone has their right to propose to someone and defend their position.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71392	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71393	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, a nice debate on REM at today's session of the Serbian Parliament. What I must say at the beginning, here is the chairman of the Committee on Culture, colleagues of Krlić in the O.R. and the lion's since this morning defends this proposal for which we were practically just one undertaker of the Committee on Culture. But I have to point out here something important to say, which is that the Committee on Culture was first in its session to determine the resignations of former REM members was accused of some kind of pressure. I am sorry that a colleague who spoke loudly about this committee is not in the O.R. right now, from one of the Committees on Culture that really works in harmony and has done a lot of work in this assembly session, at one point trying to make a joke. For the public's work, I will repeat what my colleagues have said several times before the break is that the Serbian Parliament is, yes, choosing REM members, but that there are law-arranged legislators, i.e. where there is a very precise knowledge of who the promoters are when it comes to REM candidates. We had as a topic today, i.e. we have as a topic the proposal of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina from which we come two candidates and a proposal from the Association of electronic media publishers and the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia by common agreement. So, between four, as proposed in the very beginning of the association, two candidates were agreed on by the Serbian Parliament. Anything else in the tide was heard as an accusation against the current government of the ruling coalition, nothing more than using this space and using time for first advertising alone. I can understand that. Politics allows you to especially, if you have not defined how you will get to the mandate again, use this topic to simply buy some media space without essentially saying something. The assembly will be defined among four candidates by selecting two, and in that sense I want a lot of success in the work of those candidates who get enough votes and get a chance for their engagement in REM. What is important is to say, it is also uncontestable, that even in those among party negotiations very much talked about REM members, that it has tried very hard to impose that there are some censorships of the media here and whatever they call it, I can't even quote it until the end or I don't want to, but REM will be in full session and it is their responsibility to fulfil their duties prescribed by law. Nine REM members will do their job right after this session is over. What makes me happy, which seems like continuity, is that today we have four names, two male and two female names. So, when we talked about more women in parliament 40% for all those who were unfaithful to it, and I'm not calling anyone, my colleagues gave full support and we voted it out, it was slow whether one woman could do the same thing as a man. Here, you see when he starts proposing a waist, then how he recognizes the same quality of women and men. I'm glad to point out that in Serbia, first of all, the awareness that we recognize quality, that we are less concerned with the half of who someone belongs to. In voting day, the SPS will certainly vote for two of the four proposed candidates. I don't have to say who these two names are right now, but it's important that we're very proud of the fact that we're going to contribute to REM's full assembly and it's important here to say that these two candidates we're discussing today, or four, and two of them are going to be elected, as a result of the resignation of their colleagues, who were primarily a personal act, and not any pressure, no blow, I don't know what terms Mirko's heard on the Committee of Culture. We practically acted like some SS division that forced someone to leave REM. So REM will be in its full session, REM will continue to do its job, ahead of us is a pre-election campaign and it is a great challenge for new REM members. I believe in them, because the quality is on their side and I say again, depending on who gets elected in advance, I want happiness in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71394	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71395	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing candidates for the REM Council and I are free to say that today we are in a situation where we have the full fulfillment of all the conditions that we have had before us, the negotiating dialogues that have been conducted, and in order to improve the electoral process in our country. This is the last measure, which we had to take and act directly to improve the electoral process and now we have a complete composition of REM, i.e. a total of five members where I count three plus two members. The choice of REM members is one of the important steps when we talk about electoral conditions in our country in order to naturally improve electoral conditions, but also this selection of REM members will certainly improve the work of the body itself and there is no one in Serbia who can say that the conditions for a fair election match are not met, because I remind you that several days ago we also passed a bill on the selection of MPs and elections in local parliaments for committees and reduced the electoral censorship, i.e. the electoral threshold to 3% whose transition will certainly allow political parties to adequately show their representatives in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and local parliaments. In fact, the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the electoral will of the citizens to parliament and local parliaments, will be mirrored, and we will certainly increase the degree of democracy in the election process itself and increase the degree of democracy in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is really not clear to me that there are still political parties who declare that the elections will not go out, that they will boycott the election, so I simply wonder, on the one hand, they promise my colleagues, doctors, 1,000-euro salaries and that they can safely lead our country, and on the other hand they are afraid of even a 3% electoral censorship. I can only conclude they fear the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We, as the majority party, have brought this law certainly to the detriment of ours, and have made it easier for our opponents to go out to the elections and win the mandate, but you see that it is not good, and in 2008, when DS, respectively, Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic, raised the censorship from 3% to 5% the same month before the elections were held and thus made it impossible for many political parties to find themselves in parliament. Well, I'm simply asking a question – is it easier to reduce the censorship or increase, how is it better? I also remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we have recently passed the Law on the financing of political activities, as well as the Law on Public Enterprises, the Law on the Prevention of Combating Corruption, and that absolutely all of these laws refer to the improvement of electoral conditions in our country, and SNS policy has one goal and one single interest, which is to create the best standards in our country, and even when it comes to the electoral process. We have a modern and stable and secure country in every sense, and of course corruption is absolutely eradicated. Election conditions, when we look at what they look like today, what they looked like today, and what they were in 2012, they almost can't compare, and if they were compared, I'd say like the sky and the country, because before 2012, it was the absolute non-transparency of the electoral list, and we've now arranged that particular list. Before 2012, we didn't have N1 TV, or "New S", or "Today", "NIN", "The Weekly", and I still remind you of a very important thing, that Serbia today has more research media than in any country in our environment. So whoever wants to be just and a hand to the heart can say that we have done absolutely everything when it comes to improving the electoral conditions in our country, but certainly a decision, which of the political parties will go to elections, make, of course, they will, hopefully, make it in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not in their own interests, the interests of individuals and their political parties. Today in Serbia, parliament is being entered on the basis of election results, based on the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not on how strong someone is on the street and how well someone knows how to insult, curse and disrespect. Let them go to the polls, of course, and the citizens will certainly say what they think about their policy of violence. I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia recognise the effort we have made, that the electoral conditions are improved and that what we have done, that it will give them security and faith in the electoral process, because ultimately, citizens are those who will give the court and who will give their vote and who will see their representatives both at the local level and in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71396	The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71397	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear fellow MPs, and respected citizens of Serbia, are good policies that solve citizens' problems, which listens to the needs that are based on freedom, openness, responsibility, tolerance, policies that are directed towards critical review. Regardless of certain dramas, which we have really had these days and months before, we have had the opportunity to see, these dramas have been generating part of the opposition over the election, the new REM members. I would say that the chance for a new drama is now down to a minimum and I would say that by choosing these two remaining members of the REM Council in Serbia, we will put an end to this topic. A third round of dialogue between the president, the authorities and the opposition, the NGO sector, experts, experts, concluded on 14 December 2019 that the work of REM needs to be improved, that it is necessary to appoint three plus two new members of the REM Council, that a new regulation for public media services is needed, as well as the establishment of a supervisory board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here, we really responded to these demands and adopted them all. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament elected three REM members at the end of December on the basis of the competition conducted and in the debate on the Committee of Resolution, talks were held on all proposed candidates, and the MPs had the opportunity to vote and thus to deliver their opinion. At that moment, you really had a paradoxical situation in Serbia, when the Committee on Culture and Information issued a competition, no one wanted to, or very few people wanted to compete in this place REM, because they were afraid that the opposition would drag them through the mud and that in all possible ways they would tarnish their careers until then. Also, as SNS, we have indeed shown that we are ready to meet the demands of the opposition of NGOs and experts and that indeed, we have shown the political will that we are ready to improve the electoral process in the Republic of Serbia. We did not do this because we are weak, because we fear or fear someone, but because we really want to create a fair-play game in Serbia where we will have opportunities to compete in this fair fight and win 26 April this year as the leading political party. The people of Serbia vote for results. You can't fool citizens of Serbia, you can't fool a Serb host so easily, sir. The Serb host knows who he will vote for, the Serb host votes based on the results of the previous SNS work, led by Ana Brnabic and President Aleksandar Vukic. The people voted for results, not empty stories, not double arches and boasting and kidnapping at the expense of those who did not, what was the character of the government during Dragan Gilas, while he was mayor in Belgrade. Today, the Assembly should elect two new members of the REM Council, which would make this regulatory body truly complete and operate at full capacity, in full composition of nine members. I will remind you that at the end of December of last year, so we chose three, today we choose two more, and thus we show that we really have more democratic capacity and more readiness and political will than those who were in power by 2012. To them, the first requirement in this inter-party dialogue and the Faculty of Political Sciences, and in the National Assembly, all the time, was to apply, the Council for Serbia that they wanted, they talked all the time about the composition of REM, and now we see them, they are not here in the National Assembly to discuss and debate it. They would just like to be counter ministers, to get their hands on the chair, the secretary, the privilege of ruling Serbia again, but they have one big problem, the people of Serbia will not and will not pass it on with the people of our country. Also, we can see that on a simple case of election boycotts, we see from the media that the boycott looks like it will not apply to some local leaders, to their reserve groups of citizens, we have an announcement from a group of citizens that they will go to the April elections this year and will not listen to the invitation of Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Djilas to not go out and boycott these elections. I am really interested, Mr Arsic, in how this will explain to the citizens of Sapca, the citizens of Paracino, the citizens of Belgrade, that the good conditions are to go out to vote in local elections, and that the bad conditions are to vote for national elections, for national parliament, and if these elections are in the same day. I would also like to remind all the MPs of how it was before, and how it is now, when it comes to electoral conditions. My colleague Violet from the SNS parliamentary group spoke about what we did in this previous period to improve these conditions, but I want to remind you that before 2012, what election conditions were in Serbia. Now to Dragan Gilas, Bosca Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, they are truly full of the mouth of freedom of the media, as if their people were to blame for their politics not passing, as if their minds were short. The citizens of Serbia really remember how it was while they ruled, what all were corruption, abuse of position or non-transparent spending of money on Serbian citizens, that it sucked the money of citizens of the Republic of Serbia by Gilas companies, Multicom Group and the "Darek Media". Dragan Gilas acquired an enormous wealth after his political career when he went to the opposition, 619m euros in revenues only in his companies. Also, its wealth is estimated at 25m euros in real estate alone. Not to mention other Gilas' misdeeds in Belgrade. Also, when we talk about the media, that time was also the most recognizable for not being free to shut down the media, press pressures on journalists and editors. It was the time Raja Rodic was arrested, when "BK" TV was shut down. Also, at that time, in various ways they dealt with insubordination media and the testimony of the late Verica Barac's report, in the Anti-Corruption Council, which spoke of numerous machinations, corruption, abuse of official position, as well as the monopoly position of Gilas's company in the advertising market. You are under arrest, you were then in 2009 arresting editors and owners of the most read newspapers in Serbia, who dared to write about the machinations of the then top government of Tadic and Djilas. Also, at the time of Gilas and Jeremic, you too had 2020, during the presidential elections, you had a negative campaign, a dirty campaign against then candidate Tomislav Nikolic, who was a candidate in the SNS presidential elections. Then how come they didn't complain about the situation in the media, like they didn't complain about the pressures they'd put on the press, about the editors? Dear citizens of Serbia, dear fellow MPs, they press you today. Dragan Gilas, when he has a press conference and the Alliance with Serbia, no journalist "Study B" or "Pinka" or anyone else, without being close to him, has been denied entry, presence at such conferences has been disabled. Also, I can say that now, so it was up to that year 2012, we have adopted a set of media laws by coming to power and we are really adopting a media strategy and by filling the REM composition we really want to show that in Serbia we want to create suitable conditions, good conditions for development and free journalism and independent media. Now election conditions are better than ever. You have an upgrade of the electoral process on a number of levels, a voter list has been arranged, RIK has organised a really large number of educations and trainings. You can now, as a citizen, check, after the election, whether someone voted on your behalf or not, which has not been the case so far. Recently, in the National Assembly, we adopted amendments and amendments to the law, and it was reduced to 3%, and it was also possible for 40% of women to be represented on the lists, which has not been the case so far. Finally, I end up with good politics being the only policy that delivers results to citizens. Good policy is the policy that is based on listening to the real and real needs of citizens, but it is also a policy that is ready to be criticised and that is the policy of President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71398	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71399	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen, today during the debate on this Regulatory Body and the fill-in of a number of its members, we were able to hear different arguments on the subject and the explanation of the work of this body on its positive or negative some assessments and so on. Of course, when it comes to this subject and it is always challenging opinions, but it also expresses the expectations of citizens in relation to its basic function. What is important, and I believe that this time too, of course, should be mentioned is that this body was established in 2014, in accordance with international conventions and standards, that the task of such a body is generally to determine the basic conditions and way of providing autovisual media services that this body prescribes conditions and procedures for issuing work permits. This body in our practice, as we have seen in previous years, certainly has found its role and it significantly affects the way and conditions of using radio frequencies to distribute and broadcast media content, i.e. conditions of setting up maintenance, conditions and techniques, i.e., emission stations, which is of course all good, is good so the body exists. This is certainly an independent media space regulator, and as such has significant powers, we can count them, almost 23 or 24, of which I would single out only those that I think are particularly important, or at least it seems to me that they are important either from great influence and from the general public to politics if we can say, but the total culture and culture of speech. I will underline, therefore, by calling for founding acts and what is specifically indicated to them is that issuing permits for the work of electronic media, controlling their work, how, in which way and for which programs are obtained permits, and at the same time, we do not seem to have the impression that all broadcasters and those who use public media space are tasks and programs that they have applied for the media space always end up respecting and benefiting. The Regulatory Body for Electronic Media has one particularly important task, which is to encourage the preservation and protection of Serbian culture and language, I would, for example, single out that point, as well as the cultures of the language of national minorities. If this is the case, I would remain on an important topic that is not relevant, of course, only REM, but also other institutions of this country, and that is that there have been long-monitored situations where in media and various types or forms of public communication the Serbian language and its literary expression are being destroyed, without need, using foreign words and expressions and when it is not necessary. Of course, it's nothing weird. Each language is alive and implies all its influences so that through history we have adopted in a certain time and in our language there are various turcisms, the influences of German language, now especially the popular English language, but it is exaggerated when used in public media and where they do not belong. To preserve language and letters, I consider one civilizational, historical, constitutional, but also an identity issue. Given everything that's been going on back 20 and 30 years to the Serbian people about everything that's going on today and in line with what we predict can happen in the coming period, we are obliged to protect all of our identity values in every way and in any field that they are. That's why it's so important in the work of this body, and that's why I repeat it and point it out this time. We have not seen enough activity to this end, and therefore from the future composition of REM in general and previously elected members, but also those on which we are voting today, we expect in any case to advance and change in the next period. In this context REM has a kind of mission that through control but also stimulating activities insists on electronic media programmes that promote all the real and civilizational values that are characteristic of us, our people and cultural content that promote Serbian values, the values of national minorities and communities living with us in this space, in this sense there is a wealth of programs, wealth of content, and in general the wealth of a unique expression that adorns this climate. What we need are: educational content, cultural content, not reality programs. In particular, there have been public debates where citizens themselves have expressed and disdain for their content, regardless of what we know to be commercial, we believe that they must still be more controlled and otherwise monitored, perhaps even from electronic media using national frequencies asked in future time for changes in programming schemes. That was also said that these reality programs are being broadcast in other terms. This is because using the media space needs and edits the state, i.e. REM, not the media itself, and I think that in that part, especially in future times, we should expect, of course, major changes. They certainly use state resources, or frequency. They must meet certain conditions. There is no threat to freedom of the media, and I do not think that it can be talked about, but should take care of the content of media programs to be in the interest of the people and the state, in the interest of social progress and raising healthy generations of young people who know what the real values of our society are. Has the current composition and practice done so? We don't think it's enough. What are we also witnessing? The war of broadcasters today, the confiscation and closure of individual channels, privatisation of public space and, of course, all of this to the detriment of citizens. There is much more to the topic, and in this regard I expect, and we all expect that new media laws will be passed in the future, to establish new practices and to favour true values and quality. The new composition will certainly contribute to better media image, better use of space, and in any case we vote for new members, new better laws, better practice and better life and improve overall relations in Serbia and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71400	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71401	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, respected citizens, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media or for short-term REM, I would say the most expensive word on Serbia's political scene in the past year. It seems to me that since there is a political scene of Serbia, the word REM has not been used as many times as in the previous year. It also seems to me that ten years ago ordinary voters, and I would say many participants in the political process didn't even know that such a body existed. Otherwise, at the time, it was the Republic Broadcasting Agency. So, the opposition today poses the issue as a question of all issues and as the main reason for all their defeats, numerous electoral defeats from 2012 to today. And the question is, is that exactly what it is? The whole story of how there is today censorship of the media, how media freedoms do not exist, opposition and story can tell some young people in their ranks, high school students, these kids from this movement "1 out of 5 million", for the simple reason that these young people at a time when the "Darekt Media" cheered and dressed up in the media scene of Serbia, and when it was one of the most powerful media empires in this part of Europe, these young people were in kindergarten, or maybe they were the basics, and at that time, practically, there were no opposition TVs like we today "N1", or "New S" or as there were many TVs in the media, how difficult it was to address Serbian citizens and at that time, practically, there were no opposition TVs like today, or "New S" or as many times were even in the 1990s. At one point, a television show appeared, and it just started squirming a little bit, and that's what my colleague mentioned earlier, and that TV was immediately shut down. It's about BK TV, of course. I'm not going to get into whether she was good or bad and what content and program she had, but it's a simple fact that the moment their editorial policy didn't like the authorities back then, it was an express arrest. I don't want to mention what it would be like to have someone think they're shutting down some opposition television like, say, "N1," even though that TV has a number of issues in its work, it's not registered in this country and it doesn't pay taxes to this country. At that time, we listened before every election, whenever the situation breaks on all state televisions, a number of analysts who came into the shows and talked that if they happen to lose DS elections, and the SNS wins immediately, the sanctions move, there may even be bombings. We listened to it in every election campaign every day, and we didn't get a chance to hear a second opinion to the right. So, Serbian citizens are constantly afraid of some wars, isolations, and we see today in 2020 that all of this is gone. Moreover, our international relations and foreign policy are far higher than they were then. There weren't any other BIRNs, CRIKs, CINS, and other wonders that are being financed from the outside. There weren't many Sundays either. A special topic is social networks that are today the place where biggest companies address their users and the whole marketing has been transferred to social networks in Serbia. There are over two million registered warrants, say, on Facebook, so let each other be a real, real warrant, so that's over a million people using social networks. It's similar with Twitter and Instagram, and it's a huge tank where you can go absolutely free on a daily basis or for very little money to address a large number of people and represent your policy. It's something that's ten years ago, I'm not going to say it didn't exist, but it was in some bend and it couldn't be used for political purposes. The Internet portals, ten years ago, were only those large, republican, such as B92, Mondo, Blic, etc. There were very few at the bar. Today in every local self-government you have between five and ten different Internet portals that are very monitored. They also have the opportunity to address Serbian citizens with very little resources and to transfer their information programme. We can almost see that this new Gilas portal is formed -- directly.rs, which is also advertised on all social networks and campaigns against SNS, and then Gilas advertises on his profiles. There's a lot of portals like that. So it's all the space where the opposition can address citizens, and something that at the time they were in power didn't exist. We also talked about how who used time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the opposition or part of the opposition decides to boycott the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, as you know, there is a very precise statistic here, and it is clear exactly who has spoken, how many times we have spoken, and when we did that intersection at the moment of the boycott, it was clear that the opposition, which was in minority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, had more performances and more minutes spent behind the assembly pay phone in this house than the government that makes up, practically, two-thirds of the parliament. They decided themselves to deprive these opportunities, to address citizens on national television daily in direct transmission. The question is how much this affects the election results, because we hear it's an excuse why the opposition can't achieve a good result, so we can see in the case of Presidential elections in Chačka. Now, let's say I take an example of a village in Chačka. It's the village of Vranic. Aleksandar Vučić won and won three times more votes than Bosko Obradovic, and otherwise it is Boško Obradovic's hometown and then I always wonder if Vranic's locals need RTS to know who their neighbour, cousin, etc. Or, the example of Beli Preletzic, who may have appeared in Chačka once and stopped by one of the roasters, then drove to the city, went ahead of the Duke Stepi Monument. There's a tape of it, there's a selfie. He hung on Facebook and went to Mladenovac and never appeared again and won 1,741 votes more than Bosko Obradovic, who has been the most present politician in Cacca for the last ten years. So you can see that it's not just a question of how many of you there are on the media, but sometimes it's a question of what you're saying. In this case, you can see that some people, the more in the media, the more they address citizens, have less support. In 2012, we showed that it is possible to go to elections and win even when you are in a subordinate position, when you have no presence in the media and when the government has all the resources available, and we have shown that it is possible to win when you run a responsible policy, and when you run an irresponsible policy, then you cannot expect anything, and now I will show it to you on another case, when we talk about all the electoral conditions, and we agreed that election conditions are, in practice, the same as ten years ago, with what we have now further improved them through a series of some laws. I've got a slice from the 2012 Dverry magazine. It is Vidovdan in 2012, after the presidential, parliamentary and local elections and at the very beginning the opening word, President Bosko Obradovic, says this -- how election theft was done. I will read only the introduction - the very essence of the Djurđevdan elections in 2012 can be characterized in the following way - the opposition won the vote, and the regime stole the count. Now I ask - and who was this regime in 2012? Were they, by any chance, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, or today's partners of Boška Obradovic with whom, beware of what, he is fighting for fair electoral conditions? So he's fighting for fair election terms with those people he said he stole at the 2012 vote. That's the best thing he's saying about how insecure politics is. When I say it can be won by serious work, I will never forget one sentence from Serbian President Alexander Vukic. It was in 2011 when we had big and massive protests against the regime at the time. We, a younger team of people, stayed after that rally to clean up everything that was left after the rally to make Belgrade look the same as before the rally. He then said one sentence – if we break one window or one glass, the citizens will never vote for us, because the citizens will not vote for savages, they want to vote for those who offer a serious programme, which offers safety. That's exactly why people don't want to vote for the Alliance for Serbia, for those people who fall for the RTS saws, who break glass, who threaten journalists, are threatening to turn them off, who are calling over two million citizens of this country bots and sandwiches. People won't vote for it, for that unserious policy. This isn't really a situation where that part of the opposition boycotts the election. No, this is going to be a completely different situation. So, citizens will boycott the Alliance for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71402	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. He's not here. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71403	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing today a law where we should elect two REM members instead of those who resigned. There is no doubt that we, me and my fellow SNS MPs, will support the proposals that the SNS will make, since we have more candidates, and in this way we will round up one process of improving electoral conditions compared to those we found when the opposition, or those people who are now the opposition, have the power and conditions that they have prescribed, the conditions by which we have defeated them. Since I have great experience on the political scene, first of all at the bar, because since 1992 I've been participating in all elections, I don't think they've been better conditions than this time and always as a man, when the elections are, I've looked forward to this process to achieve an even better result. Those people who are in opposition now, who we have fully met, met all their conditions and more than that, they will not go to elections. It's a paradox that's probably unclear to people who are looking at this on the side. They won't go to the polls, because like the SNS, they follow the results of public opinion, and they know their results are devastating. They know well that they didn't have any concepts, they didn't give a single solution, because as Mr. Krlić said, I remembered that sentence well, the government should have results, and the opposition should have ideas. There's nothing better said today than that. We have results that we can all praise together, normally, forerunners in this, and the most deserved is Mr. Vukic, and we who from our places help to achieve even better results. We have had a stable policy in this period, four years normally functioning this Parliament. The president is struggling at all levels to, above all, improve the economy, ensure that internal policy is right and that foreign policy is as good as possible. It's very important for our country. We have good relations with all the great forces. Especially me, although it is a difficult task, it is now looking forward to improving and a clear view of the United States, because I think it is our chance to restore and create good relations, because I think it is the key to good policymaking in the coming period, although normally some different attitudes and views in the policy are difficult to solve. It's a difficult task in front of the president of our country, Alexander Vukic. That's why he needs the support of all of us. That is why it is necessary for the elections, which I say are ideal conditions, to be attended by all, to choose the Assembly that will work in the next period, possibly for the same four years in the full term, that good results, to enable stability in this country and to enable even faster development and solution of the problems ahead and not small. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71404	Thank you. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71405	Thank you. I listened carefully, dear colleagues, and during the morning part of the debate, and the law is very clear and precise. So, the Electronic Media Act gave REM, as an independent regulatory body, extremely large powers. Our role is to monitor law enforcement and monitor the work of regulators in this regard. The responsibility for the operation of an independent regulatory body is on the regulatory body itself. So, in their work, as the law stipulates, REM members do not represent anyone's interests, especially not party, political, not even their own, so the law is quite clear here. I'm just wondering, listening to some of the presentations of individual colleagues, how exactly did we do that and when we put ourselves in a position to explain to us what the competences of the regulatory body are? That's what members of REM must do in the future. This is not our jurisdiction, even when it comes to selecting members of the REM Council, with these two members we will choose today, a fully respected agreement during inter-party dialogue with European parliamentarians on improving electoral conditions is fully respected. So we have fulfilled our jurisdiction in accordance with the law. We've conducted a procedure for selecting new REM members. The fact that someone's loading into that choice of conspiracy theory and who's behind which candidate and why not yesterday, and until yesterday, was why not right away, etc. simply doesn't stand. But I can understand that. I remembered listening to the talk about how it worked and how it was at the beginning. I'll just remind my colleagues who were and when the First Broadcasting Agency Council was formed, they sat in the National Assembly. I'm just going to remind you of the way and what followed the selection of the first Radiodifuge Agency council then. Remember that the candidate, one of the candidates, is that his personal documents have been falsified, so that he can pass and be elected as a candidate for member of the RRA. That's why two members of that body resigned. Let us remember in 2009, when a political party sued one REM member because he was a close, or candidate of a political group. So these are all cases that can cloud and create the impression that something still happens today. Therefore, authorised proposings are clearly stated in the law. It's the authoritarians who propose candidates. The competent committee of the Serbian Parliament shall implement the procedure, of course, in accordance with the law from the beginning to the end. All MPs, or members of the board, have the opportunity to speak to the candidates. All loadings in the Plemium Hall and outside those Committee sessions on which the subject is discussed are purely politics. At one of the last sessions, I asked my colleagues to be serious when we talk about REM because it is a subject that brings great public attention and it is very important that we be responsible and serious when we talk about it. When we chose, for example, I will remind you, at one of the previous meetings of the missing REM members, a colleague, who is also a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, came out in public with the fact that a member of the Committee, or candidate for REM, doesn't even know he's a candidate, but the ruling majority has put the man in the fire and he doesn't know it. These are serious cobwebs that can really lead to further confusion. In doing so, it's purely ignorant of procedure. It is clear that every candidate by hand has to confirm consent to the candidacy, but the public doesn't know it, and then we put ourselves in a position to explain what our powers are, what REM's powers are, etc., instead of leaving it to those whose job it is. REM members are independent in their work. The law was so precise that the procedure and appointments and recalls of REM members was very complex. The public needs to know that REM decisions can only be decided by the court. The public doesn't know that because REM members never found it appropriate to explain it, but they left it to us, and I'm really wondering – how exactly did we do it and when exactly when we brought ourselves into this situation so that we could take over someone's business and explain what ReM's jurisdiction is? As I said in the debate at the very beginning, we adopted the Financial Plan and the Financial Report, and this is an opportunity, therefore, to elect five new REM members, to finally begin to behave in accordance with what is in his job description, in accordance with what the law prescribes. On the other hand, all that we've heard as a grudge over the work of REM can help us tomorrow when the agenda of a future National Assembly calls on changes and additions to media laws, and then we can give REM additional powers, such as the possibility of punishing broadcasters, and then maybe things will be clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71406	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, that someone who doesn't understand politics or someone who hasn't seen this debate from Serbia today throughout the day, and, God, yesterday, I don't think he'd understand anything. First of all, it would not be clear to him who is the government, and who is the opposition, and this is practically the only parliament in the world where whoever has absolute authority claims that he is not responsible for nothing and who persistently criticises, not only the opposition, but other state institutions, including those who claim to be as independent as REM. We haven't heard a single commendable word about REM's work in years before. Not one. We heard openly from representatives of the ruling coalition as much as REM works for Gilas and Solak. We heard them break the law and work against the interests of Serbian citizens. I wonder, and I believe the citizens of Serbia -- who chose those people who break the laws, work against the interests of the citizens, and above all work for Gilas and Solak? They were selected by the SNS with its coalition partners. All the REM members, from first to last, were elected by your votes. You chose Radulet, then you said, a criminal, and you chose him as a minister. You choose Saša Jankovic, after you say, a traitor, a foreign mercenary, is no good. You choose REM members, you spend a little time, you say again – they serve foreign interests, they serve Solak, they serve Gilasa. What is the conclusion, gentlemen? The conclusion is that your human policy is disastrous, that you do not know how to choose, that you choose the worst, that you choose those who work for thieves, tycoons and against the interests of Serbian citizens. I expected it, and it would be some minimum political decency, if you had at least made an apology to the citizens of Serbia and told them – we apologize for all of our wrong choices, we apologize for being under the authority of the Serbian citizens. Perhaps it would be better if you boycotted these elections and perhaps it would bring much more benefit to the citizens of Serbia than others do. It is incomprehensible to me that someone from the ruling coalition, here I am writing down, says they have become untouchable in REM. How can they be untouchable? Do you have any legal options to get rid of someone at REM? Yes, you do. Did they break the law? If you claim to be, why didn't you get rid of them? So you're the ones who support those who break the law. You're not crime fighters, you're criminal fighters. It turns out from what you're saying today and all the days before. One of the ruling coalition's representatives said the opposition would have returned within an eight-year period when only one opinion could be heard. To make things funnier, it's a representative of the SPS who was in power back then. You know, it's very difficult to criticise the state from the position of someone who's been in office since 1945, so in the past 75 years, he's been in opposition for five years and 70 years in power. They are angry at others who have not done well and have not properly arranged the system, and he says, "There is only one opinion that can be heard." Whose opinion was that? The opinion of your coalition partners, and of your partners, and of today's, Gilas and Solak. You're not political opponents. You're coalition partners. You help each other when they're in opposition. You do not judge each other for crimes committed, because as you call them for crime, and no one has been arrested, no one has been charged against, no one is being convicted, no one has been convicted, and so have they talked about your crime, but they have supported you, they have given you media support, protected your mandates, supported you politically until you have replaced them. We also heard that REM, as you say, has no legal obligation to oversee the elections, but will now, by order of the Serbian government and by order of those from the EU, control the elections. What kind of SNS experts are these, what kind of independent body is that if it receives orders from the EU and from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It's the way you experience independence. That's the problem. Second question. You were talking about how these gentlemen from the European Parliament visited REM. Which one? The ones you've been waiting for, the ones you've been leading around Serbia, the ones you've allowed to interfere with Serbia's internal affairs? Aren't you ashamed to let someone on the side get involved in what is the most sensitive internal issues of a country? You too are proud to end the electoral system in Serbia by order of the former EU parliamentarians and to improve. How did you do that, gentlemen, to improve him? Until yesterday, you were making fun of these pro-Western sopranos, your predecessors, saying -- imagine they're asking for a change of rem members, and that's impossible by law, is it saying -- we've just chosen new REM members. Then what happened? Then it turned out that you deceived the citizens of Serbia when you claimed you had no influence on REM members. How can someone not have an impact on the one they chose and on the one they set up? Of course he does. Everything else is offensive to claim and resign people, although they were in line with the law in office so that you, as you say, could fulfill what you received as a commitment from the EU. That, gentlemen dear, is exactly an indication of how obedient you are when it comes to someone from the West. Then you keep your mouth shut and listen, then you fulfill your orders, and you convince Serbian citizens that you are supposed to be strong and that you are supposed to be strong. You have absolute authority. You keep boasting about the confidence of the citizens you enjoy and the number of votes you won in the elections. But even today after eight years, you don't realize that there's a certain responsibility going on, and you're refusing responsibility for anything negative in the country that's going on. You want to wonder about everything, you want to decide everything, you don't know how to decide, you have proven it, but you refuse responsibility. Who can be responsible for the work of REM which is disastrous, in your words, except for you who chose the complete composition of REM? Only you. You're talking about how the average salary of employees, not these members of the council and not the president of REM, is the average salary of 129.000 dinars, but you accept that you've increased and increased by accepting the financial plan of their salary. The financial plan of REM is growing year after year. I started the work yesterday, and surprisingly, for example, in 2018 compared to 2016 four-and-a-half times the REM budget. In 2014, there were 18 million and 200 thousand, and in 2020 there were 307 million. In six years, 17 times the REM budget has been increased, increased thanks to you. That's what you decided. You rewarded them for corruption, you rewarded them for crime, for unhappiness, for doing the opposite of the interests of Serbian citizens and what they do for Gilas and Solak. That's how you pay Gilas and Solak for the money of Serbian citizens. Imagine, for example, if the Srliga budget, that would be a favorite example, increased by six years by 17 times, how much better these people would be, or a budget in any other municipality in Serbia. Now that we look at the way REM is income, you said they're making some of their revenues on the market, you said what because you don't know anything about anything and you don't realize that when there's a monopoly and there's a certain regulatory body for a particular area that then there's no market, there's no possibility that there's no emitter, there's no radio program, no cable operators, there's no way he's going to choose whether to go to REM or not to go to REM, so you're talking about the market, but there's a monopoly. Look at the income structure. That's the 2020 plan. Income based on the charge of the cable programme 21 million, revenues based on the radio programme 19 million and revenues based on the compensation of TV programme 266 million. Now that you look at how much cable operators pay 21 million, there are a million and 700,000 subscribers in Serbia, that means that cable operator REM pays 12.5 dinars per year per subscriber, only 12.5 dinars per year. When you divide it by 12 months, then you get to the amount of one dinar a month, how much each cable operator, SBB, for example, pays REM based on cable broadcasting -- one dinar a month. So, you also charge those who broadcast the radio program, who have an incomparably smaller opportunity to earn than those who collect millions but not millions of dinars, but millions of euros and who, as you say, do not pay taxes to the state of Serbia. A few weeks ago, months ago, the owner of a TV station from Novi Sad strike hunger because she couldn't pay compensation for those people who need to make a program and survive in the market you charge incomparably greater compensation and can otherwise and can do better. To raise that compensation to cable operators, to make less of your School, your Gilas and your Petreus, to raise to 10 dinars, you could completely eliminate compensation to radio operators, to TV broadcasts on the local, regional TV stations and to reduce the compensation of these broadcasters for national television, but it is your interest and you have to leave it in the pockets of Schools, Gilas and Petreus.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71408	The right is not a replica of MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71409	Since it was said that some things here today were said by the MPs of the SNS, you see, ladies and gentlemen, that's what it looks like when you don't listen at the sitting, when you're careful, or when you're away. Just what you said wasn't said by any of the SNS MPs. What you need to know, we are not, as is said here, ever claimed to be neither strong nor powerful. You see how powerful we are and how powerful we were talking yesterday and today, and this has to do with yesterday because, from what I hear, you're mostly dealing with those subjects yesterday. How powerful we are, how powerful we are, is what those headlines of all the Sundays looked like yesterday, what the headlines of the daily newspaper looked like yesterday and today, what the situation with these cable operators and with all those TVs that are currently running the campaign against Alexander Vukic, SNS, is us in the parliamentary majority. They're running an open campaign based primarily on lies and claims that we're preventing them from working, that we're suffocating some media space in this country. There we are so powerful, so powerful that as anyone can see, here in this country can speak at our expense whatever anyone wants. It can bring out even the most brutally possible lies, it can openly threaten Alexander Vukic to put him on the front page with everything pointing a sniper rifle at his chest and that's how much force we are, we're so powerful, and we're so great dictators and autocrats, as they respect us all the time. Of course, it's quite clear from all this that truth is completely different. In this country there are absolutely broad freedoms, in this country democracy has reached that level and those standards that it has never been on, and it certainly has to do with these improved electoral conditions that we have approached by our will, and that is why we can say today – you have the conditions to participate in elections that you never had, at the time of your Gilas, as you like to say and you are right. So, everything was absolutely unimaginable, and we improved it all and because we're completely comfortable, relaxed, and we know it. What determines what happens to Serbia tomorrow, what determines the results of the election, is the will of the people. So it has nothing to do with their millions, it has nothing to do with the powerful media they own. People can't cheat, it's clearly shown. The people have seen very clearly who is who and how things are in this country. He knows that Aleksandar Vucic and SNS are fighting for him, that they are able to win good results for him and when it comes to the standard and when it comes to infrastructure and when it comes to the results of the economy, so you can also see when it comes to election conditions and the level of democracy and the level of freedom. Finally, since the question is asked – how did we change these electoral conditions, and only in the direction, that today it is easier for everyone on the other hand to participate in the elections. Now, as for those whose speech is the same every day and every session is the same, so feel free to consider our answers the same as yesterday and the last time, today it's hard to get those best results, the best conditions of fantastic 3% of census compared to the previous 5%, that's something they're going to have to live with, while this Assembly is going on in the National Assembly, and after the election, it's definitely somewhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71410	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71411	So, you're talking about improving election conditions, and what made them better, if they were good? Why are you improving them if there is never more freedom of the media in Serbia? Why are you improving them if the opposition has all the rights? You're improving them precisely because the situation is completely opposite. And how did you improve them? Was the only obstacle to democracy in Serbia the two people who resigned from REM membership? Do you think that in Serbia 15 days before the elections will change something? Have you read the responsibilities of REM and how serious the body is and what are they doing? They issue media service permits, they control the work of media service providers and ensure consistent application of the provisions of the law. They say measures to media service providers in accordance with the law. They prescribe rules that are binding on media service providers, and so on and so on. You yourself claim through the argument that none of what the law says is respected. Not all previous years have been respected, and now two new REM members will change the situation and bring over the necessary media freedom in Serbia. He won't. Secondly, you have no answer to this – why does the cable operators charge REM only one dinar per month per user of cable TV? Serbian citizens who pay cable TV every month receive a bill of several thousand dinars, out of several thousand dinars and instead of billing, not to get Gilas, Solak and these NATO partners Soros, Petreus and others to earn extra profits, you turn it over to citizens of Serbia, who registered local, regional televisions under the law, get frequencies, which pay taxes, take their skin off their backs. With these "N1s", which you yourself claim to pay nothing, to break the law, so whoever allows them, you with your incompetence, with your unhappiness, with your ignorance to edit the system. And you're telling someone about something - you've made the result. So what's your score? What would you be if it wasn't for Alexander Wolfie? When a man listens to you, he would say, well, that Wolf doesn't really contribute much. Most people vote for Orlic, for Martinovic, for Serbia Filipovic, Acu Markovic, for those experts, for these... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71412	Comrade Sarovic, you have no right to call the messengers one by one. Nemanja Sarovic: I praise them. You don't get it. ) No, no, colleague Sarovic, it is quite clear in the Rules of Procedure, please. (Nemnja Sarovic: Nothing you understand, I praise them. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71413	Direct address to MPs is forbidden. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71414	I don't know, maybe it's possible that when a man isn't present at the sessions, to be done to him, it might cause an echo in these halls or in the restaurant. He seemed to understand that someone here said they were voting for Orlic or Filipovic, although no one ever said that. But he certainly can't seem to have heard anyone say it, even though someone in this country voted for Sarovic. That's absolutely impossible. So there are no dilemmas. The question is, what have we done? Well, somebody's probably gonna say nothing too important, right? It is not too important that today's average salaries in Serbia are at 500 euros, compared to those 320. Was it so much when you and Dragan Gilas were staring at Belgrade together? Is that it? So it wasn't a very big result and it's not too important, but it turns out that the people think a little differently after all. What else? For example, this Corridor 10, which is finished, you've probably heard of it, it's an important highway that allows us to be connected from the north to the south of the country, it's of continental importance and important infrastructure. There is another leg that goes there to Bulgaria, and then there is Corridor 11, also a fantastic new highway. Both of them have been waiting for decades for this Alexander Vukitch you're talking about and the SNS he's running. Some will probably say -- it's not too important, I guess it's completely irrelevant to them in relation to the money they shared with Gilas in the city of Belgrade together once, in Old Town today, right? It may be irrelevant to you, but it turns out for Serbian citizens that they think a little differently and that these things matter to them, along with all hundreds of thousands of new jobs that have been security over the past few years. They may not compare to the level of importance for you, with those travel expenses you charged when you traveled from Vranj to Belgrade, but I think the people in this country find it a little different. These people are all very important things. That someone's gonna be skin-stained from their backs, because something's going to be charged a month, so let's make it look like I don't get it. I don't know what I could say further, but the people would probably have a slightly different opinion if you asked him -- is it a terrible one dinar a month compared to, how much, not the dinar, but the euro, and in millions, 420 or 450 million of those euros, you, along with Gilas, turned to the bridge at the time when he was making such a pompous opening, and you worked with him together in the city of Belgrade. Finally, as far as the issues of freedom of the media are concerned, anything to be asked as a question to Gilasu, Sollaku and these others with whom they are in Old Town, feel free to ask them, and then feel free to tell us what the answer is, because they will never give us an answer. You know why? Because all the stories about REM are actually just empty stories that serve to compensate for the obvious void of politics and content. If they knew Gilas, Solak and the others had anything to say about the economy, the standard, the infrastructure of the people, they'd talk about it. Since they don't know anything about saying it, they're saying REM, REM, some REM, and you're asking someone on the street what REM means, no one knows, except that Gilas knows anyway. It's a means to turn hundreds of millions of euros again, and you know it much better than we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71415	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71416	The big problem you're facing is facts. You can tell what you claim to be empty stories, but when a man confronts you with facts, then you start talking nonsense. I read the actual data and you tell me if any of what I said and said isn't true. So, in 2014, when you were in power a lot, the REM budget was 18 million and 200 thousand dinars, and it worked REM with it, then in 2016 it jumped several times and reached 64 million and 684 thousand, and then again in two years it jumped to 280 million, and in the following year it jumped to 307 million dinars, in six years the REM budget, which you say violates the law, to work contrary to the interests of citizens and to work for Gilas and Solak, it increased 17 times. Why, gentlemen experts, have you increased the budget of those who rob Serbian citizens who work for Gilas and Solak 17 times? That's a question for you. Second thing, you say -- not a lot of dinar a month. No, on the contrary, it's a bit of a month's pay. I repeat, the SBB pays one dinar per user per month to REM, and therefore the SBB earns millions of euros, earns because of your REM members, because of your laws and because you cannot stand up to them, as you cannot oppose N1 television, which you say is openly breaking the laws of this country every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71417	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71418	Well, it's just that a man doesn't know what to say, when a month ago a dinar falls off, so it's been said, skin scratching off his back. Now he says - it's a little bit, it needs more. You know, if it made a little more sense in the words that we're getting here, there'd probably be a lot more ground to say. This is all again the same story as yesterday and all the same story as in the previous session and every time it all amounts to the same thing over and over again. They say, "Why are we such terrible autocrats and such great dictators, and at the same time they say, "You will not choke those who work against you?" Well, that's your answer. You give it to yourself all day and every time you give it to yourself, because we're such big dictators and such terrible autocrats. That's why all those who obviously don't work in accordance with our interests, but they have some principles and calculations, and it doesn't matter whether you're talking about television right now this or that, this or that signal distributor, as you see no problem in this country, they all work nice and everything is good, but they're still crying about there's no freedom, there's no democracy, and it's kind of hard for them. You see, you're giving yourself the most beautiful answers you can. So even today, when you're talking at the same time, but watch out, in the same day, you're talking at the same session, we don't have enough influence on the Public Media Service Assembly and yelling and calling – you need to change the law, you need to tighten up there at the Public Media Service, and then, maybe 45 minutes or an hour later, you have a big influence on these people and they all do everything you tell them. Now, that's another indicator of how things are in this country. As long as we stick to the law and talk, everyone should work only in accordance with the regulations and no one will miss anything, just don't touch other people, we never asked them for anything again. On the other hand, you can't make a deal with yourself, and what is it you've been passing on to us all along? Is it bad that the average salary in Serbia is 500 euros? Is the measure and indication of someone's incompetence of those who were before us in an opportunity to take care of Serbia? Well, I'm very sorry, but you can't sell the story to the people – that's bad, just because you feel unsuccessful about it. Is it bad, since the question is, what have we got and what have we built, when we have these highways we've been waiting for for decades? Well, it's hard to convince someone. It's a measure of incompetence, I'm very sorry, but with that the same people will have to live in some way. Finally, what is, how and how large, knocked up? Well, here's the thing, people who understand these things, I mentioned earlier that famous Ada Bridge, 130 or 140m euros, that it could have been a real price. How is it knocked up, overflated to 450, and what were you involved in? Start with that, because it's, you know, things that people choose, what they see with their eyes. As they see the bridge and see that no sense will cost so much, so much on the other side they see the highway that wasn't there until yesterday, so they're glad that something like that exists, that they have it now. So these are things that people tend to commit. And all that we've done to make democracy more, to make freedom more, to those things we are, to know it well and to understand it well, to be proud. By allowing it to be easier than ever and for those who have nothing to offer to the people, that even if they get a vote, they will become MPs again tomorrow, so we are also proud of it. And that is an indicator of how much we tremble in front of someone's facts, and for everything else, as I said, since we listen to the same speech every day, consider the answers the same as each time and welcome Gilas when you see him, something does not appear these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71419	The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71420	You're saying you didn't understand me, and I really believe you. I'll do my best to explain. I'll tell you what I can do as slowly as I can to make you understand. So now shut up and listen to me so you can understand. So the REM budget is 307 million dinars annually. The structure of REM's income is next – 266 million are paid by local, regional and national television. Then radio operators charge 19 million and 400. Do you understand? Do I speak slowly enough? And the revenues from cable operators are 21 million. This means that of those who are legally registered, pay taxes to the state and pay their frequencies, you take nearly 290 million dinars annually. On the other hand, the SBB, which you say is working against the state and robbing citizens, charge them 21 million, 15 times less, 15 million and 700 thousand cable TV subscribers in Serbia, I pay an account of nearly 4,000 per month, of which the government's cash goes to the register. When I talk about you yelling skin off your back, you yell at the honest ones who work in accordance with the laws, who register and pay the frequency. Those who dig and place cables on the wild, who work for Gilas and Šolak, are privileged by them, you make them rich with enormous wealth. Imagine some more than 700,000 SBB subscribers making 15 euros a month, that's a million euros each month. Don't you think the fee from one dinar per user is small? Shame on you for not being, and shame on you for making up for the real-paying TVs that pay in accordance with the law 15 times bigger, or 290 million. Do you understand now?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71421	Comrade Sarovic, I thank you for speaking softly now. The Vranjanian dialect usually implies a quick speaking of words, now we could finally understand you without speaking the literary language of Bora Stankovic. The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71422	If he hadn't rushed back to the end again, everything would have been much better and more understandable. So I think we finally got to the bottom of the problem. Mr. Sarovic pays SBB a bill of 4,000 dinars a month and is very unhappy about it. Right? So it's our fault that he signed such a contract. I have to admit that my heart ripped open while I was listening. I don't know how much I'm gonna be able to hold out today's session, but I'm very sorry you chose so many channels. If you'd chosen a little less, you'd have agreed with them a little better, you'd probably have a smaller bill. For that terrible dinar a month, for which you cannot agree with yourself whether much or little, since the hour is much, the hour is little. People say that REM over a hundred million dinars a year pays to the state. So much for what happens and who it goes to. By the way, since that math in the work while it was going slow and slow, to be perfectly understandable, was very instructive, I'm only interested in these millions, how much does that bill turn out to be when it turns into a number of pieces for all those millions that you say it takes your Gilas and your School? I mean, you're good enough with people as soon as you've spent all those years together in power in Belgrade, and you're spending now in Old Town, so you have someone to ask, you have a place to talk to them. Come on, please, find out from all the millions they take every month, as you say, you know very well how much you can buy exactly those Range Rover Autobiographies? I think any citizen of Serbia would like to know today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71423	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71424	So, Mr. Arsic, or Orlic and Mr. Arsic, you obviously don't understand anything yet, regardless of what I was trying to say slowly...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71425	I understand my colleague, Sarovic, the crow dialect, where I served the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71426	... Obviously, I didn't speak slowly enough. Mr. Arsic, you may have been taught this at that college that you graduated from, but you can't tell us who it is. I would ask you to tell me which college you are, since you are already representing yourself as an economist, you have earned a degree on the threshold of six decades of life, you are an economic expert in SNS, epochal things from the economy, I have already announced that I will propose you for the Nobel Prize for economics. But let's finish this part now. You claim REM hundreds of millions of dinars each year to be in the state budget. That's a lie, Mr. Orlic. He used to pay 180, but then you regulated the system, then you increased the REM budget, and then that part of the money that's being paid into the budget from year to year is getting smaller. Here, for example, in 2016 it was 184 million, and in 2017 it was 18 million. Ten times smaller, and in total over 160 million. The difference between what's been charged, what's the difference? In quality. That's what you say you pay for unemployment, for crime, for breaking the law, and for supporting Gilas and Solak. You got involved like a chicken in a house, you don't know what you're gonna do. The class criticises REM, the hour you say you have the strength, the hour you don't have the strength, the hour you choose well, the hour you don't choose well. You're responsible for the catastrophic state of the country, for the catastrophic state of information, and that's disastrous, and that's not what I'm saying, you've been saying all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71427	counterpart Sarovic, my humble knowledge of economic sciences, says this, if you don't move from Belgrade, and you write that you have arrived from Vranj and that you are going back there in the final session, then you get ten thousand dinars. It's from economic science, and what's in legal science, I think it's a felony of fraud at the very least. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71428	That's very interesting, get up and repeat for yourself what we said, that more than a hundred million are being paid to the state, and then you say, and that's now an indicator of some disaster and that we're not telling the truth. As I was saying, let me repeat, you're always giving yourself the best possible answers, and let's just say that REM, when it plans 120 million, so pay 180 and something, how well you've noticed, that's just an indication that it's back to the state, right? Now, I just asked for one bill, but it looks like it was too complicated. So probably some dinar-to-euro conversion is distracting and making things more complicated, so let me just simplify, here, it can only be in euros. Of those 450 million euros, the amount that you and Gilas used to figure out for the bridge on Ada, it means we're only going to go for the Euros, as far as the Range Rover Autobiographs can buy from which every single piece, as far as I can see in the paper, I haven't seen it in my life yet, but I believe people, cost 140 grand. I think it would be interesting for the citizens to hear and find out. Finally, you, I don't know if you're just business partners or political partners, with whom you're together in Old Town, I mean Gilas and I think of Solak, because I see them calling for an election day to block anyone who wants to go to the polls, because they call for elections, to usurp institutions, and they say that they will come to support you, when you do it together, Bosko Obradovic with his court and others, to defend you. Do you plan on taking part in their Sundays, too, if they just dare to do these things? I think it'll be a very good answer for the citizens, what to think, how to appreciate each and every one of us. Of course, because we have contributed to democracy and freedom being more than ever, and to bring down the electoral censorship for political sizes sitting on the other side, to make their lives even easier, based on the fact that we have allowed the media conditions to really be, so unorthodoxly impossible, but for who? For us, because we don't have any problem living with it, because we're so big autocrats and so big dictators, or maybe you're some other people who obviously understand themselves well in the marked luxury class cars intend to when they get to the authorities somewhere to hold it because at any cost, even if it means destroying democracy in this country. I think it would also be important to explain it to the citizens today. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71429	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Markovic. (National Ambassador Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws it out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71430	Thank you, Chairman. Before I move to the agenda, I would like to appeal to you, chairing that you have understanding of the indignation of the previous speaker, the most famous Vranian from Old Town. In Belgrade, he won the final election of 19,000 votes, which is slightly more than 2% to you. When we consider that the censorship is reduced to three percent, then it's clear... .
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71431	Please, colleague Jovanovic, don't tell me I'm a jerk, that he's gonna rip my microphone and break my glasses. Please, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71432	Today, when we are discussing candidates for the REM Council, we can say that all the conditions and obligations of the dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, in which the intermediaries were representatives of the European Parliament, have been met. The improvement of electoral conditions is something that the SNS is proud of and today we can openly say that the electoral conditions in Serbia are best than the introduction of a multi-party system. So, we have amended three laws, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, the Law on the Finance of Political Activities, the Law on Public Enterprises to achieve equal treatment for all participants in the electoral process, in order to prohibit so-called. A functional campaign and so on. On the side, presidencies that these laws were inherited from a period of the Dossmanian regime, so the real question is how were these laws good when they were ruling, but well, that's for another debate. Furthermore, the voter list is fully updated and transparent and we are free to say that it is the most accurate from the introduction of multilaterals in Serbia. Furthermore, we've introduced an opportunity for citizens to make sure they're on the list at any time. They can do it in person, they can do it in an electronic way. We have also introduced an additional newspaper, which is that after the election, citizens will be able to make an insight into a copy of the voter's list and see if they have exercised their voting rights. Furthermore, we formed a monitoring board of the National Assembly for Media Control, and that is also a good question for many parliamentary majority in Serbia before the SNS why they did not in years when they exercised power formed this body, and they also had a political opportunity to do so, they had a legal opportunity to do so, but they were not interested in it at the time. They were interested in other things at the time. Furthermore, we have amended the electoral laws and in the part where the censorship necessary for the entry into parliament is reduced, in order to allow all relevant political actors on Serbia's political scene to be represented in the National Assembly, although this goes directly to the harm of the SNS. Some may also have representatives after the next election if they change their rhetoric and if they change their public appearance because we want to enable all political actors to be represented in the National Assembly and to return politics to parliament where it belongs. We simply want to honour Serbia's political scene and today when we choose, I believe by the end of the evening that we will choose, the missing REM members, we can proudly say that we have met all the conditions and requirements we have had, both from the opposition and from the professional public, and from those called experts from NGOs, etc. The only thing still exists, and if there are fewer and fewer of them every day, because they have a strong influence on the media, so they announce a boycott of the upcoming elections, and behind that is the pre-prepared alibi for the election debacle. It's easier for them to declare a boycott than to participate in the election and they know it. On the side that they lie about boycotting, because, as we see, Gilas will go to the polls with his organization "1 out of 5 million". Many of these days are intensively preparing for local elections, etc. We see here that they were actually lying all the time, when they were talking about election conditions, because yesterday their main driver, Bosko Obradovic, said in a TV duel, or admitted what their basic and only condition, is their going out to the elections, which is some kind of transitional or technical government in which they will participate. Yeah, but it's in another country. I repeat to the chairman, the SNS does not want anything to darken the bright victory we expect in these elections, and therefore we insist that we have the best possible electoral conditions, the most transparent procedure, which no one will be able to challenge after the election, even those who have excluded themselves from the election process. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71433	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71434	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for SNS, the Supreme Judge of all political parties, and SNS are citizens, citizens in democratic elections, show their will and give their voice to those who believe, to those who have left behind their results, to those who tell the truth, to those who do not lie, to those who build roads, and not to private planes, to those who have opened factories, to those who have hired citizens, to those who develop Serbia from the north to the south. The democratic process and the improvement of the democratic process of democracy, for the SNS, have never been a issue. For the SNS, every vote of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is sacred. Everyone from the SNS, every voice, every individual with all due attention and respect approaches and appreciates. To that end, in this sense, it was absolutely not difficult for us to talk through arguments and facts in an inter-party dialogue and to improve all those conditions concerning a better electoral process. One of the conditions, and this is the last, as regards the promotion of the electoral process, except for those laws that we passed in December, and in December we chose three members of the REM Council, today we have before us a proposal to elect two other REM members and thus with five new REM members, will be completed and a total of nine members, and we hope that all REM members will, in accordance with the law and their powers, in the best possible way possible way, be responsible, perform and exercise their powers under the law. What I want to point out is that the SNS may be one of the few that is the strongest currently on the political scene, but our President Alexander Vukic, he wasn't just referring to the thought, with the SNS being the strongest. He had one state vision, which is very important for these elections to reduce the electoral censorship from 5% to 3%, and for other parties and many other parties, in fact, to give citizens confidence, to enter political life here in the National Assembly, through a democratic process, through pluralism of various ideas, through crossing facts, to come to the best solution, and the best solution is Serbia and Serbia's citizens. Except for the reduction of the electoral censorship, which is, above all, the state's move by our President Alexander Vukic, because of course he can only harm the largest political party, which is the SNS, there has been an increase in women's 40% participation rate. We have also shown here as the National Assembly, as Parliament, that we can put a bill proposed by Parliament MP Gordana Komic, a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which was respected and included in the agenda of the National Assembly and for which our President Aleksandar Vukic also gave huge support, we have shown that we can talk and that we are unique, when it comes to increasing women's quotas on election lists, both in the local and republican elections. The people know that the truth is different from the lie. The people know that it distinguishes work, order and responsibility from work and chaos. The people respect the institutions. People don't respect thugs and those who want to be on the street to solve the issue of democracy. Therefore, in the upcoming elections, citizens will support Alexander Vukic's policy, labour policy, order, better life for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and better Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71435	The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71436	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the vacant seats of the REM Council, we elected 2 members in December and then the SRS had its proposal, which was Mr Dragomir Antonic, the most famous Serbian ethnologist known to the general public and who of the proposed candidates at that time was the best. Unfortunately, he was obviously not politically similar, because although you did not have a candidate at the time, you chose two members, which is what you revealed and officialized through that very source of your coalition, the coalition of Vukic with Chad and that autonomist Canka. So with the greatest apostates and traitors of the Serbian people and under the influence of various NGOs under direct control of Western agents who promote a lie that was genocide in Srebrenica. Now I'd like to ask a question to all the REM members. Why is there always a lack of their reaction when it comes to public figures who say there was genocide in Srebrenica in the media? Why isn't REM responding? Also, the reaction is always lagging behind when the public service says the Republic of Kosovo. The least you can say is so-called. Kosovo or so-called Kosovo's government. That's the kind of phenomenon REM always had to react. I would point out that Professor Vojislav Seselj, on more than 3,000 sides in his scientific work "There were no genocides in Srebrenica" proved that there were no genocides and throughout Serbia held promotions of this part, so three promotions will be held on Saturday 15 February in Baja Basta at 12.00 hours, Ljubovija 14.30 and Mali Zvornik at 17.00 hours. So, you are, even then, in the last election of the new members of the REM Council, and later on, I will refer to today's candidates for the REM Council, but even today, although you are skillfully hiding that you are in the coalition, that your partners, or whatever you call them, are just the greatest of the Serbians, the biggest traitors who lead an open anti-Serbian policy and deny the only truth that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. In addition to the fact that your most important partner in Novi Sad, Nenad Canak, has been telling us that Chank's MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly for three years do not criticise the current province government in any way, so as not to lose the privileges they enjoy in Novi Sad. I'll remind you it's one of the most important enterprises, it's a plumbing and sewerage, that it's run by Canak and his LSV. You say that, and you have no other reasonable explanation that this is some kind of municipal coalition, because neither you nor Canak know how to explain the nature of this coalition to your membership and the citizens of Serbia. From the biography of today's candidates, I will talk about two candidates, that is Slobodan Cvejic and Slavisa Grujic. We can see that they meet the conditions, but they're also politically similar. However, we would do little to supplement these biographys with certain data and once again show Serbian citizens that these are political elections, or prove the link between LSV and SNS. Namely, Slobodan Cvejic proposed a SNS parliamentary group in the province's parliament. It's about a man accused of plagiarism. His colleague Vladimir Ilic accused him of taking over texts, charts and tables from the book "Comparative Analysis of Civil Society's role in providing social protection services to the Western Balkans". Vladimir Ilic, as a member of the Staff Committee of the Faculty of Philosophy, was supposed to explain to the commission the promotion of Slobodan Cvejic to the calling of a regular professor and was then introduced to the public about this plagiarism. The second candidate, Slavisa Grujic, is an LSV candidate and is known as the chairman of the party's information council, and now unless I am a member of the LSV political council. So all this information that we have presented about the proposed candidates just proves our previous claims, i.e. evidence of close co-operation between Vukic and Chanka. We are surprised by the SNS, which claims to be national-oriented, how to co-operate with Canka whose first coalition partner is Aleksandar Odzic, who advocates the collapse of the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia and the creation of the Republic of Vojvodina. It's something you can read in his party program. I would also remind that Canak himself was against the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which he says is choking the autonomy of Vojvodina and openly favours the recognition of Kosovo, which I quote "Kosovo is not Serbia but a place where some people who have a round state continent live and that it promotes a lie that there was genocide in Srebrenica". It's your coalition partner, so we want to know how you're going to explain it to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71437	The word is from MP Mirko Krlić, who is proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71438	You see, at this point, I really have to react with the question of how you will explain to the citizens of Serbia that you are quoting the Ilic government that I am experiencing the circumstances of my fellow citizen, one of the main ideological factors of LSV, which you support in condemning Professor Cvejic, although the entire academic public, the entire university, the Faculty of Philosophy, the Society of Sociologists, killed the claim by the Government of Ilic that it was plagiarism. It's a public document, you're in the writing of yellow press. The Ilic government, otherwise an intellectually very dominant figure as far as reason itself is concerned, but not morals. It's known for these things, extremely important when it comes to plotting, otherwise one of the best friends that you're talking about right now, about the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, you should know that he, the Maltene, the entire Social Democrats League programme, designed, designed and very helpful that the party has attitudes that he has. So these two arches are strange. You have to explain, we have nothing to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71439	The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71440	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I would like to answer my colleagues to ask the question here – how much is Slobodan Cvejic a moral person, since at one point he was charged with plagiarism? It is you who are in coalition with the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, not us. Our attitude is clear. Our program is clear and we never change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71441	The word is from MP Mirko Krlić, who is proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71442	You and I have enough years to make it clear that it's not clear what you're saying, it's who's saying it. If you quote Vlad Ilic and use it as an argument to attack an honorary professor at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, it is an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71443	The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71444	Very short. Mr. Krlić, do you know what verdict has been made since I haven't found that information? Since he was charged, was he convicted? Is plagiarism proven or not, since you're doing this more than I am?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71445	The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71446	That's what I'm talking about. He wasn't convicted. He was called media by his colleague. It's very embarrassing when someone, for who knows what reasons and what initiatives against the man he's working with, initiates that kind of immoral writing and accusation. However, I have already told you, the University Council, the Faculty of Philosophy, the Society of Sociologists, all have been fenced by Professor Ilic's statement and supported by Professor Cvejic. So I don't know what else to explain, no charges, no convictions, no convictions, no convictions. After all, Mr. Cvejic explained it himself. You should have read the text to the end, not just the title, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71447	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71448	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, in the previous period, we had many opportunities to listen to the accusations of some opposition representatives at the expense of the SNS that we are the ones who choose our party partners for REM members. In 2017, however, REM became very interesting and the selection of REM members, especially after the presidential elections, when Aleksandar Vucic won the elections over 55% against 10 opposition rivals. But opposition representatives themselves don't know what they want. First they asked for three seats to be filled for members of the REM Council, then to replace all nine REM members, although there were only six REM members at that time. This is what Zelenovic was known for when he asked for all nine REM members to be replaced at a TV show. To the Serbian advanced party, nothing means whether REM has six or nine members, because it stands behind its responsibility, work and consistency. Of course, that's what our President Alexander Vucic, who, day after day, has been showing you how much you do, not what you say. Almost at the National Assembly Hall, one of our opposition colleagues said that everyone, and I will not say her name, because she would consider it very important and important in politics, that all Serbian citizens are looking for a shift of members of the REM Council. My dear colleagues, they are not looking for citizens of Serbia to change members of REM, they are looking for a better standard of living, they are looking for security, development of the economy, political stability of the country and progress in every sense of that word, which is what our President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS provide. Also, we heard various accusations by Djorđa Vukadinovic on the Committee on Culture and Information, whose member I am, that these are the hasty elections of members for the REM Council, that they are the promoters of some phantom organisations, that they are pro-region candidates. Of course, when you need to come here and talk, he shows up for five minutes, says what he thinks and leaves, and the truth is something else. All four candidates on the Committee on Culture and Information are very good quality and they all meet the qualifications for the selection of REM members prescribed by the Electronic Media Act. I wish them all a lot of success, consistency, independence and independence in work. Whoever is a member of the REM Council will do as he has done so far, fair and worthy of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71449	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71450	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I see you are slowly filling this hall, which means two new REM members will be elected in a very short time. No matter what kind of people this is and no matter what, let me say, some of the accompanying laws that have been passed in this sense, I'm not sure this will all contribute to a better situation in our electronic media. If for nothing else, it is because of the fact that in this area there is a mass of European laws and regulations that practically introduce enormous restrictions. I say, in addition to the best will of these people who would like to do something, it just won't be possible. You don't say it for nothing – where other people's freedom begins, that's where your freedom ends. Media workers, journalists, media workers are people of special importance to every society and to every state and good media worker is not and should not be the executioner of someone's orders, should not be a fan of sensations. It's simply his job to make his information, which he places, make the people better. It's like a doctor to you. A good doctor is the one whose therapy works effectively on a patient, not the doctor who takes cheap medications, prescribes patients and then charges them more expensive, no matter what the consequences are on the subject. So, whether we want to admit it or not, the influence of media workers on the state of the nation is on the public and on how great and how significant it is. I'm not saying that some things that are bad in the media sphere that some people do it consciously, but whether they're doing it consciously or unconsciously, the consequences of what they're doing, of course, can't be avoided. Of course, there is no need in any case to question artistic freedom, creativity, etc. Because media workers are both creators and artists, and creating under certain pressure is certainly not going to do any good. And a creation for a reward, for “7. July," Avnoj-evska, any other prize, can also bring nothing good, creation must be free. Today, however, we have many types of creation, or media workers, whose creation has a negative impact on the nation. Simply put, it spoils the people and the nation, especially our youth. Although we cannot influence this, we cannot prescribe someone who will be involved in creation, we can influence what kind of creation, what will be available to the public or what will not be available to the public. It's exactly the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, and a lot of care has to be taken into account. Older generations remember a time when almost total censorship existed in society. Despite the censorship, however, the ideological censorship that ruled in the communist socialist time, the average viewer, the average resident, the consumption of these media is not broken down by it, but even, on the contrary, it is elevated. For what reason? Because that's when it was made sure that journalists, speaker, reporters were really people from their careers, people who knew their jobs. Although nothing else, if not ideologically, then, I say, people and people rose in that written sense. They were describing people as to how to express themselves, how to dictate, and how to describe everything else. REM members should be people of integrity, people who know their jobs and people who have consciences and people who won't be able to buy. However, I'm not sure there are enough of these candidates that we should choose today or at least there are enough of them. We of the SRS have proposed one candidate and, in general, it was the best candidate. Of course, it is the most famous Serbian ethnologist Dragomir Antonic, but for some reason, unknown to us, our candidate has fallen off and his place has been taken by other candidates. So it is no wonder that, for example, we have a situation like we have, here, today on the day of St. Trifun, which is a very important Serbian holiday. Our young generations know it's already Valentine's Day, and we elders don't remember it. So it wasn't at the time. No wonder, for example, we have Halloween and all the other things on St. Luke. It's a job to deal with REM members. I'm not sure they're capable of doing that job. On the other hand, Serbia is a country whose large number of inhabitants, compatriots live outside its territory, in BiH, Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia and not to mention Romania, Hungary etc., but on national television you can't hear much about life, the state of these people. On RTS, we have a daily "Belgrade Chronicle". I am not a Belgrader and I have nothing against it, but there should be a chronicle of Serbs from the region, so one day about Serbs from Republika Srpska, one day to talk about the Federation Serbs, the second day about the Serbs from Montenegro, the third time from Republika Srpska, from today's Croatia, and, of course, it should be one section that will report on the lives of people, or our people, compatriots from the KIM territory. However, this is not the case and let this appeal be one of the first obligations of REM members to deal with, to see how and how our diaspora should be preserved, because these interactive media links are the best means to preserve the identity of a nation and preserve its links.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71451	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been discussing the selection of members of the REM Council, a regulatory body that needs to create frameworks in which electronic media will work. It is quite understandable that when one such topic is on the agenda and agenda, few fellow MPs come out of the discussion and start talking about the media freedoms that are in the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me, since the first day the SNS came to power, that the dictatorship and media darkness in the Republic of Serbia have been mentioned. How true is it that every citizen can see for himself, because dictatorship implies a ban on freedom of assembly. We are witnessing that although the gatherings organised by Dragan Djilas, Pajtic, the team around them, are completely free and not prohibited. The second is a ban on freedom of speech, because they claim that the Republic of Serbia is under the dictatorship of SNS, Alexander Vukic, any citizen can learn from the media, not from some secret meetings that it really is a dictatorship. What bothers me the most is the fact that we have been told about dictatorship by Dragan Djilas, says Solak, speaks the former regime, and I would just like to ask them – has it happened since SNS, that one of the owners and founders of the daily newspaper have been arrested and spent almost two years in custody, like when it was during Boris Tadic, Gilas, Šolak and the crew? So, for almost two years, a man spent in custody and then it wasn't a dictatorship, and today every minor can write whatever he wants, say whatever he wants, call for the murder of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and say that we misunderstood it and that we don't know what he's doing. We can also talk, as Honorable counterpart Marijan Risticevic spoke, about cross-border television, about the way they work, etc., and has it happened in Serbia, since the SNS was in power, something similar at least for what happened in Montenegro the other day, that certain television stations, which do not use public resources, should be temporarily suspended? It's not. It hasn't happened in Serbia, at least since the SNS was in power. How did the whole story of that dictatorship begin? It started by starting with NGOs first, and I guess from the moment they realized that Alexander Vukic and the SNS couldn't win the election anymore. They started talking about some censorship in the media, so when someone told them -- you know, but how are you going to say that there are censorships when no one changes the texts that journalists write? Maybe the legal-berotechnic alignment, the grammatical correction, and that's where it ends. Then they came up with a new concept. I'd like someone to explain to me, to give me a definition of what self-censorship means. So, the journalist, the reporter, no one prevents him from writing, threatens him with any sanctions, and he writes on purpose differently than he sees or desires. I find that incomprehensible. I think of most journalists as honest and brave people. Not these like this Culibrk and the founder of the tabloids, etc. Let it go. It has nothing to do with life. They're not journalists when they're protecting themselves behind the code if they're sick, and they're not responsible for what they're writing. Is that a reporter? He does not stand behind that word he wrote; he does not stand behind that which he has sent down because he says, "I am mad." So no censorships, no dictatorships, no bans or restrictions on freedom of speech. We are now coming to this REM and the regulatory body, which is that because of all these aspirations to present in Serbia the dictatorship of some REM members, elected by the former regime, did not violate the law. I can't say that, but the worst thing is that they didn't enforce the law and enforce the powers given to them by law on a very serious topic in society, such as electronic media. God forbid any of the people's MPs, we're not going to talk about the ministers, that's just, mentioned or initiated the procedure for any of them to be resolved because he's not doing his job properly, Alexander Vukic, the SNS would be represented as dictators, and Serbia would still be in the 18th or 19th century by dictatorship. To be aware, we live in that environment. It wouldn't bother that much, because, you know, they can't do it on the sides of Serbia so that they don't have a team to do it in Serbia, from our citizens, whose country isn't important, who don't even have citizens, and their neighbours don't care about it, and that's just Solak, Gilas and that team that's fertile for making stories that are one dictatorship in Serbia. They created an atmosphere in society that Serbia is in the media dark and that is why they cannot go to the elections. What's the problem? They say – the problem is REM. What do you want with REM? To be changed. I said, they're yours. Never mind. Change them. We didn't replace anyone, the REM members themselves resigned, probably disappointed that they were constantly defending both Gilas and Tadic and the whole team 10 years ago, and now they're still attacking them for defending them and not doing their job, so of course they're going to resign. Then we come to have this at this session, and then there are colleagues from the former regime, the former regime, the current opposition, who say -- so you don't know how to choose. Here I am now saying - the one who pretends to be so popular, smart and capable, I will beat him on his Dorcol with both my hand and my foot, and he can't keep my hands, my feet and my mouth clogged. So much for how they know how to run the country. You know what, it's easy to say from the opposition that whatever you say you don't answer to anyone, whatever you do, you don't answer to anyone because you did. And then I guess that lack of responsibility drives them, a lack of responsibility to talk and talk about everything and everything, because they don't care what they say to Serbian citizens won't get any worse, they won't get any better. They can say whatever they want. We are now in one situation when it comes to REM choosing new members of the Council. But let's finally and finally and this new REM begins to perform a function that makes it legal and established. They can't be cable TVs that create public opinion, and they can't be those who participate in the market, and they don't have the consent and permission to work for our national institutions. Well, it can't be N1, which is registered as regional television in the Netherlands, but watch regional television in the Netherlands has a studio in Belgrade, Zagreb... (People's MPs: Luxembourg. )......................................................................................................... Luxembourg. So wait in which region? Benelux. So what's she doing here? What's he doing here? Let him go there. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to transfer the program free of charge from every studio they've ever studied that isn't there, but for this one here, it can't. This one has to be registered according to our laws. This one here has to be paid taxes under our laws, not that I get the Solak, Gilas and the others rich and they still talk about how someone else was stealing citizens, and they're not them. He can't. And those of the former opposition, from the former regime, I apologize to the citizens who are following a session of the National Assembly, from the opposition, so don't attack us anymore for helping Dragan Gilas steal the city of Belgrade and every citizen of the city of Belgrade when building a bridge on Ada. Well, we weren't from the SNS in the coalition with Gilas from 2008 to 2012, and we're being accused. We were not in the coalition with Bojan Pajtic from 2008 to 2016, but they are now telling you – they made a party for you. No shit, and they held you down just to take down SNS wherever you get to, so now that you're not done, they don't need you anymore. Let's get this straight, and finally REM starts doing its job at full capacity, not now in the back of the system, now for the first time in a few years, working at full capacity, starting to do its job properly, cable operators to fight for the market, I don't mind. They must respect the national legislation of the Republic of Serbia. If they will also be involved in broadcasting the programme, they must register televisions, or other publishers, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. If they won't, they'll have a very nice house. If they do not leave, we will provide them with permanent accommodation in the Republic of Serbia, but a closed type.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-14-0.u71453	Since the lists are no longer registered, there is no one by Article 96 under Article 98(4). I hereby conclude the search for a list of candidates for a member of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday, February 14, 2020, starting at 17.40 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the twenty-fourth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to decision-making, we need to determine the quorum. We, here at the chair, are convinced there are over 130 people. The screen shows us 128. Is it a problem to put the cards in again because it's impossible? I find there are 129 MPs in the O.R. It looks a lot more. We're moving on to a decision. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on a proposal from the competent board of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The candidates for the election of one member of the Council are Slobodan Cvejic and Slavisa Grujic, on a proposal from the committee responsible for the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Since one member is elected out of two proposed candidates, I note that each MP can only vote for one candidate. A candidate has been elected as a member of the Council who receives most of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to choose Slobodan Cvejic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – no one, with abstention – two. I am voting on the proposal to elect Slavisa Grujic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote: against – three, abstention – one, 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, has chosen Slobodan Cvejic on a proposal from the competent board of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, on a proposal from the Association of Electronic Media Issuers and the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, by common agreement. Candidates are Biljana Ratkovic Histian and Višnja Arangelovic. I would like to put the motion to elect Biljana Ratkovic Mujana as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – one, with abstention – one. I am voting on the proposal to elect Višnja Arangelovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote: against – 129, v – two. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, has chosen Visnja Arangelovic on a proposal from the competent board of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body in the selection and wish them success in their work. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the NS RS in the 11th Assembly. (The session ends at 17.50 p.m. )
