ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68850	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 82 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. We continue to work and move on to a search in details of the 1st item of the agenda, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You've received reports from the board of directors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Does he want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68851	You have adopted the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, and here you are changing it. At the time when the law was passed, we drew attention to you that we do not need this law, that we do not need another agency, since this law also established a government agency, or agency formed by the Government, which is funded from the budget and which essentially neither this agency nor this law will bring anything positive for anyone in the Republic of Serbia. This law is passed as well as its current amendments to meet the requirements of foreign investors. Everything you bring on the orders of strangers and everything you bring to please them is actually not good for our people. You and through this law and through the future laws that we are going to talk about today and which have been spoken of you are sending an incredibly bad message to people in Serbia, forcing how soon we will be in a situation to import, I don't know, locksmiths and other people with finished crafts, and on behalf of that you force some kind of dual education. In fact, our people's lack of education. That's not good. If it's really true that we're going to import labor, then it's better to import locksmiths than engineers. You know, those of you who make this bill, these different foreigners, they're going to bring their engineers, they're going to design, they're going to work in technological processes, and we're going to provide them with people with finished crafts. We don't have anything against people who finish trades, who do their jobs well and honestly and who live out of it, but to force in one country, in Serbia with so little percentage of highly educated people, to force on and through the media and through the address of government representatives and the congregation majority, to force that I don't know what to do in order to have as many low-skilled or middle-skilled people as possible is truly a great sin. We have to work on that and you ministers and the whole government, we have to work on creating conditions, creating, as you like to say, the environment that the more people in Serbia finish high schools, the highest academic titles to achieve, that should be the goal of your ministry, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68852	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68853	I'm just going to remind you that the day before yesterday we spoke on the subject and that as part of the new strategy that is being presented to the public in the coming months, this is exactly what you and I are talking about. On the one hand, labour is needed for all processes, and on the other hand we are talking about a knowledge-based society and economy. But it's really not my fault that I hit the situation that only 22% of high school students were present in the system, and 78% of all other vocational education. When we talk about the expert, it's so-called. "vet" and "dual". It's the same principle with different exits, but we're dimensionally half on this strategy and in order to get more into high school, we're not going to bring down the threshold of knowledge but to strengthen the work of primary school. That's why it's very important to redefine primary school work, train teachers, train directors, make the system work, and that's what's done. It got to second and sixth, and then we can, so in a major offer is high school. High school is all strategies, all serious education countries, a basic opportunity for studies. No one says they won't leave this second column, because we left the exits that anyone can, but a smaller number is expected. So it's something that has to be planned and implemented in the long term. We have managed to raise to 28 in three years using some smaller tools and in the first stage are specialized programs for gifted students for various areas. That list isn't exhausted. We talked about a healthy nation, sports high school, three levels of graduation, and it's much more important that we go back to the basic word in this whole story, which is the quality of education. We don't need a percentage of so many young higher-ups, where half of that is unquality, and unfortunately, that's what I find and I say it in public. So, on the one hand, you have a struggle to overcome it and that story improves. That's where the strategy goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68854	Thank you. Here you go, Reverend Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68855	It is not the first time, Minister Sarčević, that you agree to what we are talking about. Clearly, you represent a certain way of conservative policy, which is good. You're an old-school man, you've finished high school by some system when really, when the real experts came out of those schools, exactly what you're saying isn't right now. Just one well-intentioned advice. You repeat multiple times. You found something. You don't have the right to do that anymore. You've been in power for eight years. You are not all that time, but you are not leading the politics of Mladen Sarcevic, but rather the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, unfortunately, is in the good part or the maximum continuity of those governments since 2000 and beyond. You still talk a lot, you give us a lot of laws, a change of laws, etc., and you could say that you work pretty hard in your ministry, but you're still not seriously engrossed in any reform. These crumbs, one way or another, it's not a serious reform. First, if you want us to go back to the serious level of high school graduates, colleges, you first need to clear up with the Bologna study system. It took years for this system to be introduced into our education system, it takes a certain number of years to come out of it, but believe me, until it's hard for us to get experts out of it. Not to talk about what became so much more, you know, you on the street, at the market, at the store, people talk openly about who bought the diploma, who they know from their neighborhood that's in some high-ranking position, and he bought a diploma, etc. So it has to be systematically approached to solve these problems. You don't have to rush too fast to change two members of the law. Make one proposal systematically. Here, I suggest you, make it the closest system to what you've been educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68856	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68857	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, with certain things, of course, we can agree with some that we disagree, but the fact is that things are different in Serbia than in 2012. Serbia seems completely different today than it was eight years ago, and that is the fact, when you look at our basic, high school education, secondary education, colleges, etc., so the fact is that today serious foreign companies are coming to Serbia, and the fact that our people today are much better paid than in 2012, when the salary was about 300 euros, realistically and less, when we talk about that level of middle-educated workers. The fact is that today in Serbia you have a problem with the fact that certain trades are disappearing because they have not been well paid in the past, and today they are being sought, we have this deficit, when we say when it comes to labour, some crafts, say welders, we have many others, of course, who praise us. It is necessary to encourage people to be educated and educated in this direction and to learn. Of course, that doesn't mean that this government against the higher education of young people was far away. We want it to be more in Serbia for young people with good and quality education, but good and quality education means not only college education, but the knowledge that benefits you, that benefit means that you have to support your families. That benefit means you don't have to look beyond Serbia's borders. This benefit means that you have a decent enough salary, that you can support your family, that you can train your children, that you can buy an apartment, that you can buy a car, that you can get your credit back, not strike, because you're in credit because you don't have enough pay, because maybe, when you were supposed to choose a profession, you missed your job, so you didn't choose what's on the market, you're already going in another direction. I think that this government is doing well today, that dual education is a good thing, because it's often said that our young people lack practice, that they lack, to say, the expertise, that it's not enough what you theoretically learn in school during your education, so you only get a good grade, but that you also know in practice something to do, i.e. to apply what you learned at your school. So we can't accept the criticism referred to this government and the SNS and you as a minister. Of course, Serbia is neither a country nor a cheap workforce. We're just heading towards it because we encourage young people to get an education. You have companies in Serbia today where young people of certain professions have salaries of 1,000 and 1,500 euros. You also have trades where you can make 1,000 euros or more. So there's no criticism. This government and this Ministry are doing well, they're doing it responsibly. That's what it shows and sees through the results. We also had this problem that many young people in Serbia were unemployed. We had this problem of hiring young people. Today that problem is smaller. Today you may have your first time in the past 30 or 35 years below 10% unemployment in Serbia. You have a salary of 500 euros on average. That salary, the plan by 2025, will be far higher than it is today, may be 900 euros and I'm sure it will be. So it's something that in a sustainable way young people guarantee that in Serbia they can buy an apartment tomorrow with two such salaries, buy a car, school their children, enroll them in a foreign language school, that they can play sports, live decent lives in Serbia. In that sense, full support and the plan of the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you as Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68858	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68859	I have to say, none of what my colleague just said is even close to the truth. How much better it is in Serbia today, a colleague said, can buy apartments, cars, travel etc. Well, that's just amazing. People, in Serbia, there are close to a million people on the verge of existence and something that, now no one who listens to me will say – well done, because people know they live like that. You're talking about some big salaries, the lowest salary of 30,022 dinars, with the lowest consumer basket of 37,000 dinars. We've been telling you about this for three months, no one's answered us where this man who works for that minima, where he can get those another seven thousand dinars to meet the needs of at least the minimum consumer baskets. We don't have paid classes. A colleague may not know, but here, let me tell him, that you have masters of lawyers, economists, with regular colleges of state, with master exams, who work in state authorities for a salary of less than or about 60,000 dinars. And such a young man, you think, can buy an apartment, can buy a car, etc. He can't do anything. There's nothing he can do with that kind of pay. Payments from these privates of yours, foreign investors, for which you bring this bill, what are the salaries there? You will now talk about the one who said there will be a salary of about a thousand euros. There are those, but most of those who come to Serbia, they have people working for that minimum of 30,022 dinars, and you cannot increase the minimum because of these foreign investors of yours, which actually lead to our economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68860	Thank you. Right to replication, MP Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68861	Thank you. I don't know what the previous replica was based on, because I didn't mention the co-worker, but here, well, let's make it right. A minimal in Serbia, and everyone knows it again and again, and it keeps on repeating itself as a mantra -- poverty, hard to live, misery, whatever it is, everything is falling apart in Serbia. Here, we've seen the last few days, of which is one man in every car? Here, just as Belgrade to set an example, it may not be representative enough for you, so you'll say -- and the rest of Serbia, but I'm traveling through the rest of Serbia, so I see that's not the case. One man at a time in every car. Each year in Belgrade, 30,000 new cars. Well, is that because the standard is getting lower or the standard is growing? When we talk about the average age of the vehicle, so the younger cars are today than they were 10, 15 or 20 years ago. Minimal in Serbia, the minimumer was creepy when we came to power and when Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, then prime minister, took this important and difficult role to change things in Serbia, was 17,000, 18,000 dinars. Today, there are over 30,000 dinars. Is 30,000 dinars enough? Well, it certainly isn't enough that someone can live decently, but it can be far more polite than when you have 17,000 dinars. We can talk about those who don't come to work over the years and receive 117,000 dinars. Is that polite? Let's say something about that salary. People, the average salary in Serbia was real 200, 250 to 300 euros in 2012. People worked in thighs for 18,000 dinars. For 18,000 dinars, the girls worked in thighs and barely survived. Today, the average salary in Serbia is over 500 euros, 510, 520 euros. The salary does not depend on it in the private sector that the government will decide whether the president of the state will say that there must be a salary of 1,000 euros. No, that depends on the market, depending on the educational profile of the person employed, depending on what the market is looking for. If you have a higher degree of education, applicable knowledge, market knowledge, your salary will be higher. (President: I thank my colleague Filipovic. ) In this sense, this ministry and the President of the Republic encourage young people, I end up preparing for life by learning those knowledge and gaining knowledge that will bring greater wages, better life and a higher standard on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68862	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68863	This discussion looks to me like someone's saying it's easier to walk a man with both legs than one who's amputated. And the one with amputated rats walking, but of course it's easier to walk the one with two legs. And so this, she says, is it easier to live with 30,000 or 17,000? Of course with 30,000, but it's a matter of different parameters. You know, it sounds absurd, but many of us lived here, worked at the time of the largest inflation in Serbia, so people say they lived better with those five marks than they did with some more serious salary. So it's not just that criterion. And eight years from now, only so much of that minimumer is unacceptable and of course not exactly 500 euros from that average salary. We keep telling you, say economists, ask Cynthia Malo to give us the data that we are looking for, not the ones that are statistically ousting, so we will tell the public and explain in detail what is really the average salary in Serbia. Says one colleague, this is now your newest mantra, and we know from whom it came from a conference, says – when I pass Belgrade, I see a man driving in the largest number of cars, so it's not exactly a criterion for you. You know, Belgrade is a big city, a metropolis, and it can't be that large number of cars, seen on the street in Belgrade, can't be a standard of life, not even in Belgrade, let alone outside Belgrade. Here, I'm certainly not on the average of people, like all of you, who are having a hard time living on their salary, this morning I came by taxi here and the cab driver says – he would go live in Mladenovac where he has a house super equipped, bought, so that he could leave the kids his apartment in Zemun, he says – I can't, because first of all, my house is not paved, secondly, in winter, I don't have the least electricity, flying for three months without water. There, that's your life in Serbia, in Belgrade, in Mladenov, in the village next to Mladenovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68864	The People's MP, Serbia's Filipovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68865	It's not worth repeating and counting on reason always, but I hope we try third time to convince those who don't believe in us, even though they don't want to believe in their own eyes. Inflation in Serbia has been stable since 2012. The rising price is predictable and not at all as much as anyone might want to show that it is, which means that when you look at price increases, minimum wage growth, you see that in Serbia, you live far better than in 2012, and yet I say in Serbia, people, you don't live the way you live in the most developed countries of Europe and the world because we've been down for decades or a decade and a half. We had negative growth, thanks to the yellow, failed company, minus 3.5%, today we have in the last quarter of last year 6%. Is that enough? Well, when you fail for 10, 20 years isn't enough, but it's certainly much better. When we talk about another parameter that speaks of the standard of living, it's a course. The exchange rate of the euro, a course of dinars in Serbia, also did not change substantially the previous ones, I would say, for eight years. As it was in 2012, it is similar today. So these are all the facts of the economics that talk about what movements are in Serbia and that are also talking about the movement, of course, we see, the average salary and nobody can explain to me that the same thing is living at a rate of 117 dinars then and today in one-digit inflation today, and then it's two figures, when it's increasing jobs by more than 250,000 in the past eight years, when we're talking about opening up a new 200 factories and someone telling me that today is living the same way that it is. It lives far better and in Serbia by 2025, thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, his responsible policy, and the government of the Republic of Serbia in Serbia will live much better than it is living today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68866	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68867	My colleague says I'm telling her it's not worth counting on. I'm not going to treat this as an insult, because my mind and my colleague Rancic may be able to say something, but it's really not an argument for this debate. The argument that the course has not changed, too, for someone who has really graduated from economic college, is not a good argument and it is not good that the course is absolutely not changing that long. Yes, yes, colleague Arsic, don't get upset and don't react like that, because that's true. We talked, when we are preparing for these discussions, then we ask for the opinion of serious economists who, unlike fellow Filipovic, know exactly what college they have completed and where the college ended. It is the beginning of this debate and our desire to return in Serbia, when it comes to education, to a serious level of education, that anyone who has a degree can speak freely and without shame – I graduated from that and that college, then and then. My colleague Filipovic, he's never said that before. I was talking here. He, whoever's on Twitter, is asking him – who, the Serbian College, has finished, is blocking the man because there is no answer to the question. So it's not good that he's talking about some economic parameters, because it's possible that where he got his degree there wasn't. I'm afraid it's going to be the same now with a colleague who's reporting to me for replication. You can't convince the people. Like, we nice, good, we trust you all, come on out, you're not in the people. Come out and talk to the people. People when they hear - the average salary of 500 euros, people pull out their hair, they say – who has 500 euros? Not according to public enterprises, by agencies, by Jorgenka, etc. to measure the average profit. Let's do what you promised once you became, ever since the Democrats made you start talking about pay grade. Do it once, and then let's really see what it's like and what it's worth.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68868	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68869	It's a memory replica. (President: here you go. ) Dear colleagues, firstly, when you talk about the course of the dinar, it shows only one thing, if it is predictable and stable, and not fixed, which is that the state does not print money, that it is in debt through primary emissions and that the state has supervised the financial sector in the Republic of Serbia. The second thing, we constantly bind the average consumer basket to the average household with minimum earnings. Find me an average family in the Republic of Serbia where only one works for minimum income. Now look at what it's like to be changing harder. Are we going to deal with individual cases when we pass laws or are the laws going to be something that regulates the whole situation in the gravity of one general act? The other thing, when we attack theory or thesis is the average profit of 500 euros, 510, I ask only one other question – where do bigger pensions come from when the donations from the Republic of Serbia's pension fund are cut? These pensions that increase are full of bigger profits. The second thing, each employee pays contributions on the basis of his earnings for health insurance. How is the quality of healthcare improved in the Republic of Serbia? There are clinical centres being created, new equipment is being bought, and now someone's saying it's made-up parameters and it's not being seen and it doesn't exist, so we're not afraid to go out in front of the citizens, so we're only going to do it in a few months. In a few months, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will assess SNS and Aleksandr Vukic's work. In just a few months. We are not afraid, and those who fear this kind of false information and try to trick a small number of naives to better lead the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68870	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The Right to Replic has a Verse of Radeta. Mrs. Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68871	I don't know what Arsic's mad about. There's really no reason. We're having a discussion. He says, in a few months, the people will assess Alexander Vukic's work. I asked before, which of you people's messengers of authority can stand before the people and say, "I did this and that, recognize me, I am the one who read, I am the one who never said anything from my head, but read what they wrote to me, etc." Do you have anyone among you other than the Wolf who will go forth before the people and explain what you have contributed to making the people, as you say, incomparably better to live? It's a better life for a shade and we've never slowed it down, but it's a hell of a lot better to live on. Arsic says we should tell him only one family, so he said, in which only one member works for minimum income. Do you want me to list families where none of them work? How do you solve social problems? How is it possible that in this state of prosperity what we've recently seen in the media that a single mother from Chačka with three children doesn't have a beaten dinar, to cope, to survive literally not to starve? And the neighborhood reported it, put it in the media. Minister Djordjevic immediately found himself there. You were wearing gifts right away. You'll probably give some work and some pay, too. That's not how problems are solved. You don't systemically solve problems. Let go of the clinical centers and release the corridors and let go of those big investments that you smile about, Mr. Arsic, we never said anything bad about. Did we talk about crime in the context of the realization of these big projects? When you heard from the Serbian radicals that it was not good. We tell you well, the infrastructure is quite finished, let's now go back and start solving the social map of the people, raising the standard and giving that minimumer more at the height of the lowest consumer basket. Let it go. Don't let me count on you, I don't want to insult people, I want to list the names of all those who don't work anywhere and where they only work one thing for that 30,000 dinar minimumer. I'd like to see any of us who could manage to live with two children with 30,022 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68872	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Right on the replica Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68873	Don't twist my words and put in my mouth what I didn't say. I said this - find me an average family in the Republic of Serbia where only one works for a minimumer and that's the only income that this family has. I agree there are individual cases. There may be more than there should be, but that problem is being solved. Another thing, when you talk about infrastructure, etc. You can't invest a single investor or a domestic, or a man who was born in that place, you won't invest unless there's a traffic infrastructure, you won't, you can't. He's not competitive on the market. When you talk about these foreign evil investors, I have to tell you that wherever the average of earnings in that municipality turned up, it wasn't just those who were opening new jobs, but also through increased consumption, services and everything else that wasn't related to their basic activity that increased the number of employees and profits in that area or region. You also know very well that in 2012, Serbia was destroyed, minors more than it was destroyed during World War II, so you expect a miraculous thing to solve all the problems of all citizens overnight. That's impossible. This law that we're passing today, which is precisely to make our children more competitive in the labour market find better jobs and receive bigger salaries. It's processes, and who can't understand it will live in the past, because it will only deal with the past. This is about Serbia improving its ambience, that people live better, not as we would have liked, but rather better than it was seven or eight years ago, incomparably better before the fiscal consolidation measures were launched, incomparably better than during the rule of Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Miroslav Miskovic and other tycoons.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68874	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is "Verica Radet." Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68875	He says I don't understand. I understand so stupidly when people tell me they're having a hard time living, I understand when people tell me they're appalled when they hear in the news that the average salary is 500 euros because they don't see 500 euros in a few months. Again, a colleague begins to point out that no investor will come if there is no traffic infrastructure, as if we had once said "a" against traffic infrastructure. Never one of us. On the contrary. All that you realize is politics and attitudes of the SRS. It's an SRS program and thank God. Wherever you agreed to implement the SRS program, you did well, but you did wrong by continuing continuity with that DS. When you were created then you promised that everything would be very different, so in those key things both internally and externally, you are a literal follower of this devastating DS policy. That's a fact. Then he says that I don't understand, I guess I don't understand stupidly, that something can't change overnight and that we expect you to change so quickly. First, being a government for eight years isn't fast. It's so long that everything could have changed if you wanted to, but you didn't want to. Do you know what we're expecting? We expect what Aleksandar Vukic said in the campaign in 2012 – when we come to power if in six months everyone in Serbia does not feel that they live better, we will all withdraw from power. Those six months, Serbia has been waiting eight years. This is what we expect, not to say all the other false promises from the office for quick answers, from the chip factory, from Mercedes in Icarbus, etc. We could talk about it as much as we want, and this law we're talking about today, which we're talking about right now, is just to please foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68876	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68877	It's a very interesting discussion. I don't want to talk about it. I guess citizens know what the country was like in 2012, and what it's like today. They also know about the floods in 2014. They know how we solved it, they know that no household spent that winter in tents or barracks, but they were ninety-nine percent returned to their facilities, and one small percentage was in commercial accommodation until spring and all these problems were solved, and all of this had to be paid by the Republic of Serbia, no one else. We've lost to these floods one precious time, but we still have the results we can go out with in front of the citizens. We'll clear that up in just a few months, all the dilemmas we have, which is that those citizens who think they live better than when Alexander Vukic and SNS lead the state, I expect to support Alexander Vukic and SNS. Those who think it's the same or worse, support the opposition. It's a court of law. This is an assessment given to both us and you and everyone who participates in the political life of the Republic of Serbia. Those who are cowards, they must not go to the election. They will try under various groups of citizens, student movements, etc. Because they know how much the people love them and what they think when they rule and how they worked for tycoons, such as Dragan Djilas, such as Miroslav Miskovic, such as Solak and the company. I also expect Serbian citizens to evaluate the results of SNS and Aleksandr Vukic in the most credible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68878	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Faith of Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68879	Since you've put all those criminals from the former government in jail, or maybe not, I only have one concrete proposal. Comrade Arsic, come on tomorrow, today, in five days, whenever you want, you and I will walk through the Fireman and see that the citizens, however they please, are talking to us, let's go through them all, and see how they react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68880	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now, according to the amendment, Michaelo Jokic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68881	I wanted to say something about this problem, about this amendment. There is an emphasis on the problem that Serbia needs to have as many people as possible who have college education. I think this particular government, this ministry, is working on it. As evidence, it is an article 7, which is being replaced by Article 36a. And we create conditions that those who finish three years of high school can graduate from college. It's a big deal. It's been blocked so far. I think they're people... The noise in the O.R. Chairman, may I continue? Because the best frames are those who, after high school, are elite, finish colleges. Well, that's what we should be working on. So these changes contribute to the number of people who have a college education, to make them as many as possible in future times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68882	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. Now the word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68883	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, you are right, Mr. Minister, when you say that the educational and educational process is continuous and planned. That's what everyone knows who listened to pedagogy, basics, the history of pedagogy and pedagogical ideas. What's very important, I'm sorry, I'll give you some information. Far away in 1882, when mandatory primary education was introduced, Stojan Novakovic did not immediately bring in a curricula and a programme. So this is for the truth and for those who follow the educational process. The law was passed on mandatory elementary school in 1882, but the curriculum and programme was passed only in 1884 and it changed, 89, 91. So curricula and programmes are constantly changing and reform is a permanent process. Why? You who have listened to the didactics know very well that the principle of the update of the teaching process in terms of curricula and the programme is the number one principle. What does that mean now? So just digitization, it's the one we're putting into all the curricula and programs. You're going to ask me what this has to do with history? You betcha. In my college, for 20 years, you've been listening to the basics of information. But on the other hand, I don't know. Why? Well, when he comes to my National Library, a historian or any kind of social science that he can order literature on a computer, for example. Not to talk about other things. Now, let's see, about the pay. The minister knows very well, because he has quite a good experience in educational institutions. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, far away in 1974, that's my first job, we fought at the time that we had a salary in education as it was at the time of the Republic's process. Then we fought in 1984 in education to have the average republican at that time. In 2000, I don't want to talk. But, gentlemen, today we have that average. And that, Minister, is a success in that part. Can you do better? It might as well be. As for the material basis of work, and you know who you work at school and in colleges what it means, which means improving the conditions in which educational institutions work, which means schools and universities. I ask the educators - is it true that the last seven years in that section have been more built or built or completed or completed educational institutions than 20 years ago? Come out, gentlemen, with the data and tell me if she's in education, in health care, etc. The law needs it all the time, what you said, to change, under the grip of new knowledge, because you'd stay in the Middle Ages. And we're exactly giving everyone a chance. The best one will be the expert who graduates from dual education. Why? Because he has a chance to be a genius expert with a college degree, to know theory and practice. I'm sorry to quote Lenin, who said there's no theory without practice or practice without theory. Prior to him is the founder of Dodaktika Komenski, one of the largest educators, etc. Not to say, while some mention it, the period from 1990 to 2000. What have we done, Mr. Minister, until 2000? Destroyed education and education. The late Gašo Knezevic, I apologize for mentioning, has destroyed the education system. He totally destroyed it. He threw all the former fluids under his feet for a thousand years and introduced chaos into the education system. It was supposed to be circled, and we, Minister, have it today. Thanks to you, we've circled him. We didn't know what the number of educators was in elementary and high school. We know all that today. Material base. Well, pay goes, too. But, for God's sake, we also take care of the gifted. And we should lead. But we're also taking care of the extra class. So, in general, and now what you said, the question is how much does someone with good intentions want to admit it to you. You're doing the right thing now - to quality, because our quality fell, thanks to 2000 and chaos, because they wanted to destroy everything that had existed for thousands of years, since the Middle Ages, learning through monasteries. It's all thrown through the legs. Came all of a sudden, nothing, chaos. The system has been established, a chance given to everyone equally, and I think we're going in the right direction. I'm glad you're one of the people who, back then, in 2000, we know it very well, went to realize some things. What many people today can't imagine, I don't mean MPs here, I mean workers in education and education, just to tell you that my childhood in 1984 had one high school center that was the largest in the former Yugoslavia. Back then, we had one of the models, you said this perfectly, where we had a factory at school, so we were making car sinks and selling it here in Belgrade, but that's one model. You've explained well, dual education is one of the models and that's the point. So reform is not carried out overnight. He tried the late Gašo Knezevic and destroyed the educational process. It's a continuous process. Educational plans and programmes are constantly being completed. What's the position of educational workers inside? Very difficult. Right away, it's a mining business, if they love it, and most love it, most educators love it. Are they to blame for something? Individuals yes, 90% are honest and honest educators, but society needs to create conditions, what it does now, because we've lost conditions, we've gone to chaos, so in that part. I stand for this quality, as you said in the opening part, it's the right thing to do, because we've circled the system, and we can't do curricula and programs, like in 2000, overnight. Well, people, we're laughing at educators who have learned the history of school and pedagogical ideas. All teachers know that it doesn't work overnight. We should train them too for some things. The teacher himself perfects two hours a day, not just him, but the guard. Every guard has to do two hours in his workplace to perfect himself, he has to work with a computer to know, he has to do modern things. To get in without it, so please, please. We're out of education, you brought him back now, and now we're finishing him up. Easy, easy, it's a process, because we need to raise our parents. Don't let the parents get mad, one part of the 1990s were our students. Is it true? That's right. From 1990 to 2000, by 2012, the educational system, education and education were destroyed, and they are now parents. There's been an out-of-the-way education. We have to work with them a lot, train them, parents. It's a school principal thing, class elders, and it's not easy. That's why we advocate quality in education, what you said, in education, can't all be school directors. I'm sorry, I can't even pedagogics. I take, like, here's an experienced pedagogical worker, a lot of pedagogues, not psychologists. There's a psychologist for me who needs 1,000 students. Not all of them are psychological cases, as they declared in 2000. And you know why? Because the president of the state was a psychologist. Every school has to have a psychologist, because psychologists deal in special cases, and educators do the right things with students. So the educational process is a pedagogical process. We must now, what you are doing, ministers, pedagogicalize school, parenting home and society in general and introduce what our president advocates, excuse me, but I will quote him – peace pedagogy. Peace pedagogy in the Balkans needs and must enter the educational system. Now, that's the point and that's what we had. Further, teaching content, yesterday we spoke about the country's relationship to national culture. Of course it's done a little bit, and thank you, Mr. Minister, for setting up a unit for the formation of these teaching classes, but we kicked it out of school for 15, 20 years, and now we're coming back slowly, continuously. I know that Marsh doesn't listen to himself in the fourth grade anymore, he hasn't listened since elementary school, and they've just found it to kick out listening to music, but we're coming back a little bit. It doesn't work overnight, there's resistance, you know. There are those who work and learn. Someone said it well – working the opposite direction. But it's ours to point out, as you suggest, and a little bit, continuously to work. We can't have all the school plans and programs from first to eighth grade in one night, in one year, in two. Hey, guys, teachers who work in elementary school know that, professors. Especially higher education. But most teachers want it and she does, and you did this well, the Ministers said yesterday, the academic community accepted and participated, which one part did not. Well, the Trebeshian won't accept it, because he got rich while he was working on his curricula. Don't pull another part of my tongue to name here. Now, that's past time. There are those who love their jobs, who will even work without money. It's not all about money. If we go to education and see that it's all about money, hey, gentlemen, we're lost. But those teachers should be respected and given back their dignity, what they once had, and they'll go a little bit. We have obligations, obligations of students and teachers, you know. We gave the rights, but we're somewhere. We have no right before we carry out our obligation and we as MPs. Now, that's the essence of the educational process and the entrepreneurship where we work. First we do our job and then we get work rights, not vice versa. My right, he says. Wait, what about the commitments? That's the point. And this replacement thesis, you know who put us in, and we're kind of pushing it out of the educational system. So, to finish, as far as wages are concerned, they're not God-knowing, but they're good. When I say good, because they've reached the average of the Republic. Since 1972, since I started at the age of 20 and a little bit of age to go into the educational process, I can tell you exactly by age that we once had the 10th session of the Communist Union in the Republic where I lived, I'm asking us to equalize ourselves with the economy. We did it today. Take it easy, maybe there'll be more. Thank God he will. I'm sorry I brought these professional things out, but they really are. So Stojan Novakovic did not overnight introduce a curricula and a program, but it took 10 years and it is true, Minister, what we are introducing, the programs, for the future we are doing. We're not raising for today, we're raising for the future. It's a basic definition of education and education. I'm sorry, it's a bit of a waistline, so let's say we're on the right track. Is there a problem? There is. Is there a mistake? Thank God there are them, both with me and with everyone else, but the most wrong are those who do nothing, who only criticize, like DOS was who kept criticising, destroyed the system in 2000 and, come on, overnight. Wait, do you know how much history we have of school and pedagogical ideas backwards? We needed all those positive things at the time, so I apologize, one more sentence, to take the modern ones and supplement them. I will again, Minister, since you know very well the general objective of raising him, we have had him, I will define him correctly, we have not transformed him yet. A versatile, developed personality with a rich mind, means, intellectual, moral, moral education, five of those educations of aesthetic, work-technical, etc. We've entered capitalism, we've remained a socialist target. Gentlemen, we can say - a versatilely developed personality, but it's not just intellectually anymore, but work-technically. Capitalism requires labour, but it also requires intellectual abilities. We've changed one system from socialism to capitalism. This is now a long debate, we at our scientific gatherings, that the minister knows, let's go into detail. I'm sorry, but this is for educators. They get their dignity back a little bit, they can't go overnight. Here, my wife is a longtime teacher. She was forbidden to mention education in school in the middle of Belgrade, the word education, the chicanning by the director. Today it's normal to talk at every school about education, a little bit, but it's going a little bit. We need to teach these young people how to work. Methodics, so you know how many methods you have, how many teaching classes. Every single one of them. About grading, what we talked about yesterday in culture and about teachers, there's a science called – domology. That's what every teacher needs to know at the university. Don't get angry with your colleagues, they learned very little in college, especially in some other professions, perhaps in pedagogical yes. So it goes there, but more than a year from now in the education system, it can be destroyed than it can be repaired in 70 years. That's what every pedagogue will tell you who worked at school and who knows the history of school and pedagogical ideas. We destroyed it in 2000, that's what we destroyed back then. You know who destroyed it then, but we're going back a little bit. Thank you. I'm sorry for the intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68884	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68885	My colleagues and colleagues, not a little, but we've come a long way from the amendment and we can't say that we need one or the other education. The serious state is involved in planning and taking care of this secondary vocational education, secondary technical, high and highest university education. And there's no way to say we need one thing, and the other we're gonna neglect. I am pleased that the minister has agreed with many of the things that a colleague of Radeta has said, because what is the importance of this moment? To correct what's been happening, we don't have to mention anyone's guilty because we're all guilty, it's a period back 30, maybe more years, where we didn't plan well, we didn't care what happens to us. Even Marks said in his papers that the end of the 20th century and the 21st century would be a century of service and that there would be a great need for people working in the area. We've been warned in some way about it, but we haven't made sure that we provide enough expert personnel to accept what this time has brought. We can't complain about it, but we have to fix it and we need both carpenters and builders and moths, and I don't know what professions we need, just like we need high-quality faculty personnel educated. Normally, it is our obligation, the obligations of the minister, the ministry, the government and us who are in a position to do so in Serbia's interest. The Lord God has given man the opportunity to learn and transfer his knowledge to new generations. There is one prayer, a prayer for learning in which it is said that all that we do to the Lord for glory, the Creator, or the Lord for glory, the parents for joy, and the Church and the Fatherland for benefit. Didn't we colleagues and colleagues swear here and say in our oath that everything we do will work in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. That's how we behave, and that's how we have to act, and that's how we're gonna be remembered by the generations that are coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68886	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68887	He mentioned counterpart Stojmirovic in good work agreed with what I said and what the minister confirmed, it is a good way of communicating between MPs, authorities and opposition. A colleague is one of the few, not the first time, who is ready to say that good is something that some opposition party suggests, in this case, the SRS. Indeed, other colleagues should not welcome to the knife everything we say, because we, above all, express the views of the SRS, are convinced that what we represent as a party is best for Serbia. Of course, now someone will say about it will say citizens etc. Nothing is disputed, but we've been representing certain views for 30 years. We in our political programme have a whole section of education and education. Mmi argues that the sunflower of education and education that counterpart Atlagic said was sometimes not to be mentioned that it is now mentioned, perhaps only mentioned, it no longer exists in our education. We have a fundamental problem in basic education. You, Minister, will talk and later on, you certainly have information that children today are finishing eighth-year school, primary school, and that at the end of eighth grade, they don't know how to read yet. Of course, I'm not talking about every child, but it's a tragedy that such children exist. Why? Because we don't like the system, because a teacher can't evaluate, because a teacher can't warn a student, because a parent comes to a teacher, a director comes to court the ministry so he can't wave at school, a parent who's ready to beat a teacher, students who are ready to beat a teacher. We all know these problems, but it's up to you to solve them. You have no right to complain that problems exist. You're the ones who have to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68888	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68889	He would refer to Professor Atlagic and that discussion you started with professors. It's very important for the public to know that it's not the curricula and the program that's been brought to one sanctity, because knowledge in the world is multiplying and the day is the same and that it's a global story and all nations are trying to find a better solution. These are three basic questions, not only what is taught, but also how knowledge is passed on and who is in charge. There were mixed pots with us, and not since yesterday, we can go back as far as you want. I'm not apostrophe of any government, not a single minister before that, but that he can't stay the way it was. In the new strategy you must know that plans and programmes will refresh, will not suffer drastic changes, if they are regularly refreshed, and at the latest five years, some and faster, then you will never have drastic changes in the system that must now occur. With us, the biggest change is not the programs themselves, but also the way this knowledge is transmitted. It's just that the whole story about the letter is all about it. It's not that our kids are stupid and they don't know, we're talking about a minority who showed a bad result there and we keep pointing out minorities. I will remind you that you can look at the billboards of various Serbian successful students' cities. I want to spend both my time as a school director and as a professor, and now as a minister, more time on it, because the teacher's vass is bigger gone while you apologize for three problems instead of getting rid of them, and you don't see any more talented and better children anywhere. So the system will turn, of course, to one another, and give due attention. In that part, we've already talked about how much it's just to enhance reality and the whole family's relationship to school, and students towards learning, and self-awareness about the need to learn well, not to torture and that it's a process of torture, something that has to change and it's going on for a long time. When something leaves, it's gonna take a long time. The reform process, I didn't invent, look at all the world practice, from Scandinavian countries, take Poland, we don't always have the same examples, Poland's progress for the past 17 years, and 17 years. I don't have 17 years behind me and I don't want to talk about predecessors. It's a process, at least two years of preparation. I'll take an example from Croatia. Croatia was a leader in education reforms by 2016. Whoever you think you love or don't like, but it's true. They're ten years old. They're already drawing dry dreno from before. Three, four governments don't avoid it afterwards. The adopted strategy, no one applies. That's the problem. It's no problem to bring here no regulations, make the story stand on good grounds, something someone said, one minister, so it's comparable. It's comparable. So I'm not just comparing to European countries, I'm comparing to China, Russia, Belarus. If you knew that Belarus has a good education, whoever said, let it go to see how good people are and with a number of countries we don't have a problem, we co-operate with everyone. Here, we'll have January 28th with the Japanese government, 13 countries in the world, a science agreement, bilateral. Imagine why we're only 13. Well, because of CERN, because of the Science Fund, because of the results we've achieved in the meantime. Let's talk about this better, we'll go back to these worse, normally. What's also important, Professor, is that we volunteered for everything that the state loves. All the strategy teams, all the law teams, for various reforms, no one got a white dinar. It wasn't a practice. It was a practice to split the money, to make teams, the same people, and believe that I had to spread well into the depths of the Ministry of Education, to eradicate these people from happening. Every IPA is designed to hold some training, if I give you how much money has been given since 2000 for training, so we don't need another 20 years to train at all. But where's the equipment? Where are the centers we mentioned, where these young people are going to train all their lives, the ones they're working on right now. Do we need those printers? We need them. Do we need any modern welding machines, natural science microscopes? Well, we need everything and we're doing it all. Of course, at a pace that is much faster than expected in relation to the circumstances in which we live, because Serbia stands out a lot of money. I can really say, knowing the whole problem that it's really commendable and better. Would I want it to be more, faster? Of course, I would, and I think we'd be able to handle it, and that's why I welcomed the story she told about this becoming a strategic story of the state. Those countries that have truly done this are now the most advanced and naturally based on knowledge. They have a high percentage, and the goal is, let's say, Scandinavian countries by 2030, that the young population has 50% of the people of higher education, quality, always to say quality, and that's what stands. So, thank you to the people of the academic community, from different institutes and places. What's very important to know, if this team continues to run this story in the next period, things will change again, because what has already been done very quickly will become obsolete, and you can't bring many radical methods because it's not used to school, school, market, parents, or directors. So now that we've introduced a slow license for them, for the secretaries and the rest, then you can go one step further. We've got a lot of tiny bodies, used to be a P.P.A., now it's screwed up, these do this, you don't have it, you can't pick it up. Serious countries also network digital needs and everything that all these institutes are scattered. The second question, what was found in them, is what were the people chosen as experts there. We have to do ad hoc bodies that will extract the highest-quality psychologists, educators, professors by professions. Now we've come to that stage. We're changing the ambience in a whole day's model of mode and work. So that's something that's absolutely true and I can tell you what we talked about the day before, about those famous aids, that someone else is training teachers to do history to say that Srebrenica or The Hague is what's best for us, Minister Kuburovic and I have rejected it with an explanation that we don't need that kind of help, that we have national units, that we have a strategy and that we know what our goals are.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68890	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68891	In one part, the minister spoke about what we were saying today and before. I will repeat again, Minister Sarcevic, quite well and realistically, but somehow it has to be done differently. We are the ones who have repeatedly repeated that, let's say, gifted children, children who receive prizes in Europe and the world, are paying a little attention, primarily media attention. There you must, too, contribute and hold a conference every time a child comes to you with a medal. It must become something the people will listen to. You're saying we're talking about a minority when we talk about these kids finishing primary school and they don't know how to read. That, in no doubt, should appear, what a minority, it must not appear, and that is not the problem with what you are trying to tell us, as an out-of-date thing in the education system. We're running out of technology, we're restoring technology. Of course, many things are done differently than they were done. Someone who now graduated from high school had no idea they were going to finish high school using computers, these smart phones, etc. Because it wasn't then, and it's okay for us to keep track of this technical and technological development in the world as much as possible. But there is something that is constant, education, or education, that is, the attitude of children to school, the attitude of the state to teachers, the attitude of teachers to their jobs. They're constants, there's no technological progress, which is going to say, it's okay that a teacher can't give a unit, it's okay that a student can run into a teacher, it's okay that a parent can say, "My child can't give a unit, and not just my child, but also his second child." These are some things that, truth be told, these problems have been created since 2000, but we insist on getting it back to normal, and then we'll do this other part that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68892	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. We're moving on to the second amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law by asking for the removal of this member. Namely, this member predicts that the agency should determine teams, carry out external evaluations, in adult education, or in so-called publicly recognised organisations for active adult education. I personally believe, and also the SRS parliamentary group, that this job should not be entrusted to the agencies, but that this job should be directly linked, in the most direct way to the Ministry of Education. Namely, as it is possible for certain agencies to carry out the evaluation, to accredit, to do everything that is most important for one educational institution, and we know what our situation is and in high education and secondary education, that in this area, we, in fact, have had a lot of gaps and accreditation, a lot of problems, which the minister was talking about the other day, in principle debate. I have to admit that there are some things that move in a positive direction, but it should never be allowed here, that agencies directly externally evaluate these things, but it must be just under the direct control of the Ministry of Education and the minister himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68894	Thank you, Mr. Saviæ. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68895	Just to explain that the Ministry founded the agency and that it has a control structure that has a larger share of influence there. When we speak, these are special units that are public organizers. So you have all sorts of things, you have what doesn't teach the system. I know that, for example, the training program for people who work in these casinos, who I'm going to put up for these corruptions, must be the ones who hired, they'll certainly rely on the great commissions from all over the system and can't do it without us. But when the school calls, we make schools like the resource of the center and there it is, certainly our influence is important and we see ourselves there. What's absolutely secondary, where you, as a private man, have registered to train some people who will qualify for welders or something else, there we can absolutely trust that whoever gave the certificate needs it to work. So there will be no problem, because it is not the strong form of education, which is formal and which requires our hard presence and evaluation.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68896	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word, according to the amendment, has Milija Miletic. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68897	Thank you. I would, as I have always supported Minister Sarcevic, because the ministry he runs along with the team is the ministry that delivers results. We have had several conversations and arrangements, in which way to help small communities, such as the municipality from which I come, which is Srlig, and such small environments are also Gajin Han and Bela Palanka and a large number of such municipalities that have a lot of problems, and with some of our legal proposals, we have found a way to solve these problems. I don't think this amendment, normally, should be accepted, because you've now explained why, because we've also seen the need for more of our municipalities, small communities that don't have enough students, that they can give certain directions, that they can favour and support them in this way, and that these people can, in a certain way, get some education. By the way, I was just listening to professor. Ljubija Stojmirović, and Prof. Atlagic, where they talked about some things, because people are really professional and they're people who know their job the best way. But there's one thing I'd say about us in small towns, small municipalities, where there's not enough students in high school. In particular, we heard earlier that there was a great need for professional school workers, and these are psychologists and educators, but I think there is one big problem that concerns all of us, and this is also for preschool institutions, education and education. The problem is the lack of personnel, specifically the logos. These people are needed in our midst, precisely because a large number of our children have a problem, and there is no one to pay attention to them, who to direct them and how to work with them and how these children can work on themselves tomorrow. I think the logo is a very important profession to be present in every elementary school in every municipality. We in Srlig, in particular, don't have any logos, and otherwise, the logo was timely and the school director, but the man died. While he was, we had no problems, there with our children about speech, about these problems and everything. And therefore, distinguished ministers, I ask you and I call upon you in your jurisdiction to find the possibility that in one municipality, in one elementary school, you can provide a logo, and it is a mandatory occupation, which can help our children to manage the problems that come ahead of them more easily. Otherwise, I will always support your draft laws, and I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68898	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68899	I'll just try for a little while, just to let the public hear both of you and your colleagues, we have a very big understanding when it comes to less environments, especially because of the depopulation, and that's where we always have to look at different models. The law is unique, but there is always that member who says the Ministry can be defined exclusively and allowed and we do so. So we can't make 15 legal solutions for the same story. There are logopedes and various experts from various areas, but they won't go to smaller cities. I have them in Belgrade certainly too, and they don't work easy, because I know how many people have asked me where I'm going to work, but it's not my jurisdiction anymore, and I can't give you an offer or an apartment or a higher salary or anything else. So we need to see together who's willing to come into a smaller environment, otherwise we have these frames in principle. If we make sure, now there's the second part of the story, to see if he'll go to your place in Srlig, and under what conditions. We don't have what's called additional funds, affirmative measures for deficit personnel. I'm fighting for that clause, and when they're paying classes, that's one way to get rid of the math or physicist deficit by giving these people early benefits to define themselves, because then we're going to talk about society based on knowledge, and math taught who arrived. We can't let that happen. That's why no one's paid attention in decades. We have hundreds of unprofessional people holding fundamental objects. That's the problem, and here the problem is that everyone wants to do it in Nis, Belgrade and so on. If there are some young people and they hear this, this is their call, but try and get you through employment and all of these other people to find a way, and we'll always have a model to finance it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68900	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Milletic. Right on the line. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68901	I knew you had an understanding. The problem isn't just in the community where I come from. It's a similar problem in other small areas. I think it's one of the solutions and that in some future period through some sublegal act or by passing some new law, we can find the possibility of one part for the needs of these municipalities from the local self-government budget, with normal consent that one such professional person can be financed. I think that would be good. That's very necessary, because anyone who knows what it's like when a kid goes to preschool, that kid has problems in preschool, and with that kid, he doesn't have a professional face that he can work with. We've been thinking, that's what I mean at the bar that in collaboration with the competent ministry, with the Ministry of Education, we've been thinking, because I'm talking about the problem of the community from which I come from, and the problem is more of such small communities, small municipalities, because we're witnessing that there's a lot of trouble in that part where these kids can't speak well, they can't support themselves well, and we need to help these kids. We can use joint work and financial assistance and local self-government to provide at least a fraction of the funds, at least 50%, because the preschool institution can have its resources and within its means can provide at least 50% for the admission of such an expert associate in the institution. Otherwise, we have here, from my neighborhood, who are now in the study of the final year of study of the university for logos and we expect that this year they end up, and these people tomorrow I will hire, not because they are from Srlig, but because it is necessary that they have to work so that these children can live and develop normally tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68902	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has a minister, Mr. Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68903	It's a very good model of what you last said, but it can be affected. Less environments, in my opinion, should recognize some smart kid who doesn't have the resources for further education and there's a state willing to give home, give scholarship but local self-government should recognize and give part of the scholarship. That's how you make that young man aware when he finishes his studies that he has to spend five years in your place, so you rebuild all that. And that's a good model. It's just a bit of a goodwill to think about it when the kids are seventh, eighth grade, to focus on such schools, and then together with our sectors... We have sectors for student and student standards. Here we changed the Law on student and student standards to not only go best, but also to go dual profiles and what is the third category, which the state declares to be of interest. If we know this is an interest, and it is, the initial education of teachers, if there are no greater interests left in time, then it must always be done a few years in advance to influence these processes. Believe me, it's a big system. They always make savings for where they're supposed to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68904	Thank you, Minister. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68905	I thank you again. You're a very reasonable man and a man who knows his job, and we're very important to people like you in the coming period to make all our wishes come true. I think it's very nice what you just said, but we, as local self-government and municipalities where I come from, finance a final year of study. We'll normally track that person who's also a good student. On the other hand, great support for you and those of our small communities through employment. Now there will be the employment of professors, teachers who worked back a few years, for ten years some even worked for a certain time. That's a positive thing. Otherwise, we as a local self-government are underdeveloped and small but we financially help the first and second year of secondary education, precisely because these children would stay with us in Srlig. It's a proposal, and I mean a good thing and other small local self-government can do it in such a way that our children stay in those environments, that they can work there and education through a dual education program there to continue working. Once again, honourable ministers, I will always support you as an MP and as president of the United Peasants' Party, support for small communities is a great support for all of us throughout Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68906	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68907	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, and today we are talking about proposals for legislation in the field of education. At the very beginning, I would like to really commend that you share with each MP the opinion and the facts and discuss these suggestions that are before us today. If we take into account all the laws that we have passed, for example in this mandate, and if we take into account the level of application of these laws somehow when we draw the line we can say that the past period has come to a great success in the field of education. And the European Commission has, more specifically, found that Serbia has absolutely realised the education strategy also gives Serbia the opportunity to work, the possibility for the Serbian government, but also creates a new desire to continue to work on education in Serbia to develop education. In the years ahead, we expect to implement a new strategy in terms of, above all, improving the quality of the educational process, but also raising the level of awareness in society about the importance of education itself. There will be a lot of work in modernising this area, as the Serbian government is seeking to be ready to follow the world's trends. The Serbian Progressive Party MP group, of course, is pleased to support such solutions. On the other hand, those who rebel against these laws are those who boycott work in parliament, those who, in fact, by 2012, have boycotted Serbian citizens and their needs, those who find all the blame, but have no proposal, nor want to participate in parliamentary dialogue. It is said, "Whoever loses has the right to be angry, so I guess that's the only wing with which they could go to the polls. The Alliance for Serbia in which the parties, even more, can't even call the parties, can't even agree which of them will go to elections, and who's a fascist, who's not a fascist, and then break up, of course, at the expense of Serbian citizens. Those who have lost to the Serbian Progressive Party since 2012, so to this day there will be an opportunity to lose, only if they are allowed to go to elections, because there is a big difference between them and us, they do not want strong and modern Serbia, they do not want to talk in parliament about proposals relating to education development, they do not want organised and stable Serbia, but citizens do not want them, citizens want new schools and kindergartens, new jobs, higher salaries and pensions, and that, of course, can provide only the Serbian Progressive Party headed by Aleksandra Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68908	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68909	My colleagues and colleagues, not a little, but we've come a long way from the amendment and we can't say that we need one or the other education. The serious state is involved in planning and taking care of this secondary vocational education, secondary technical, high and highest university education. And there's no way to say we need one thing, and the other we're gonna neglect. I am pleased that the minister has agreed with many of the things that a colleague of Radeta has said, because what is the importance of this moment? To correct what's been happening, we don't have to mention anyone's guilty because we're all guilty, it's a period back 30, maybe more years, where we didn't plan well, we didn't care what happens to us. Even Marks said in his papers that the end of the 20th century and the 21st century would be a century of service and that there would be a great need for people working in the area. We've been warned in some way about it, but we haven't made sure that we provide enough expert personnel to accept what this time has brought. We can't complain about it, but we have to fix it and we need both carpenters and builders and moths, and I don't know what professions we need, just like we need high-quality faculty personnel educated. Normally, it is our obligation, the obligations of the minister, the ministry, the government and us who are in a position to do so in Serbia's interest. The Lord God has given man the opportunity to learn and transfer his knowledge to new generations. There is one prayer, a prayer for learning in which it is said that all that we do to the Lord for glory, the Creator, or the Lord for glory, the parents for joy, and the Church and the Fatherland for benefit. Didn't we colleagues and colleagues swear here and say in our oath that everything we do will work in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. That's how we behave, and that's how we have to act, and that's how we're gonna be remembered by the generations that are coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68910	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68911	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 4. The draft law on which we have intervened and whose removal we have proposed has been amended in Article 17 of the basic law, and concerns the duration and number of mandates, as well as the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Agency to which you comply with the Law on Public Agencys. The removal of that member is proposed for the reason that we believe that the old legal solution is better and that a double increase in the term of office to the members of the Management Board is unnecessary. We have repeatedly held our position on government agencies during this session, but also on previous sessions, as well as on NGOs and the Serbian Radical Party is certainly against the formation and financing of various agencies, which are over 200. We believe that they should be abolished, and that all those jobs you've assigned to perform agencies should be done but must also be done by the ministries. We all know that huge funds are being spent on the work of these agencies, and I will remind you that for the formation and work of the Qualifications Agency in 2019, 90,334,000,00 dinars were allocated, and that is only for one of the agencies and when we look at them, given how many they are, these are huge funds allocated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the work of various agencies, and this is certainly another additional blow to the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68912	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. The word is Milosav Milojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68913	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly and esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I will look back and talk a little bit about the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the proposed amendments to the law are very important and that it will contribute significantly to the further development and improvement of the economic sector of our country. It is very commendable that the bill contains a series of provisions relating to the improvement of the procedure for the recognition of foreign and school and higher education documents. By passing this law, it will be much easier to recognise the documents issued by the university on the 500 best-ranked list in the world. Also, cutting the deadline for ending the process from 90 to 60 days will greatly help people who want to achieve their rights as soon as possible and start working relationships. It is also extremely important that the process itself will be significantly more professional and will no longer depend on a large number of external factors, but the recognition solution will be adopted in accordance with the principles of the Lisbon Convention and based on the exchange of information within international centres. Another important thing is the possibility of handing over documentation in a certified copy, not just in the original documents, which is also a relief. The amendments to the law will bring the alignment of the National Qualifications Framework with European higher education standards and this will mean another step forward in bringing EU values closer. I am also taking this opportunity to point out that the systematic reforms of all economic structures have contributed significantly to the development of the Republic of Serbia. These changes are still felt in local self-government units. The various types of assistance from the government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government over the past two years have increased the number of people employed in Arangelovac by more than 300 and these are clear results of policy and economic growth. More than 20m euros for four years, Arangelovac received through various projects and subsidies from the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's how many of our municipalities haven't received it in decades. Also, big investments are planned, and the common goal is to bring back our young people who are studying abroad, to enable educational staff to show their professional qualities in domestic companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic for identifying the problems and offering concrete solutions not only to the municipality of Arangelovac, but also to other municipalities and cities in Serbia, because they are aware of what it is necessary for Serbia to develop and move towards a modern, developed and proud European state. Through all the above, I wanted to highlight the importance of co-operation between local and state authorities, the importance of internal co-operation between local authorities and businessmen, including as many responsible people as possible to address issues of social importance. That is the only way we can achieve better results in the future. Once again, great gratitude for understanding and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68914	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. The word now has the amendment Mr. Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68915	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the respected Minister Sarčević with his associates, the impact of knowledge on the development of society gets a new dimension. Knowledge becomes a resource that has more meaning than natural resources. Today, it is not necessary to explain why the time in which we live is often called the age of knowledge. Knowledge is thought to double every five to eight years and only those who can accompany that growth can hope for success. Therefore, the future of a young man in the 21st century lies in continuous learning, learning that seeks, other than the adoption of theoretical knowledge, the acquisition of the necessary skills that will be implemented in practice and that will enable them to overcome the speed of change, the complexity of the environment and the uncertainty of time. In the 21st century, there are no companies that have primitive manufacturing processes. It's just the other way around. Modern technological development lies in companies. Young people, unless they have contact with modern technological development and if they are not active participants, they cannot acquire skills. In recent years, the town of Leskovac has largely changed the business image of this part of Serbia, by opening production capacities of the company "Falke", "Autostop", "Jura", "Jinsi", "Aptiv", as well as dozens of small and medium-sized enterprises. Clearly, knowledge has been adopted. It's only worth it if it's practical. That's why we see our role as responsible local self-government as a bond between economy and schools. Of this kind of education, benefite has both companies and individuals, but also local self-government. Practice shows that countries with dual education have a youth unemployment rate below 10%. With us, a quarter of those without a job are under 30 years old. In the Jablanic district of four schools, three of which are in Leskovec and one in Vlasotinc, implement dual education with 32 companies, including the company "Falke", "Autostop", "Genis", "Strela", "Fungo-Jug", "Morac", "Golden Bor", SZR "Mita" etc. With dual education, the company promotes a business culture of social responsibility, giving young, ambitious participants a chance. Employers are in a position to identify the candidate profile they need. On the other hand, dual education is shown as an opportunity for students to learn to apply the theoretical skills acquired during schooling, as well as to gain a working experience that will prove to them significant in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68916	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68917	Mr. Minister, you're in a very insinuating situation. These laws that are before us today, above all, a new framework of qualifications and dual education and all that you have proposed here is something that you are being imposed on. You, as Mladen Sarcevic, would first be like a man who is thus educated, as well as most of the experts who contributed to this country in the immediate past, wish we had this classic form of schooling that you've been through, as many of us here. However, new conditions, market conditions and, above all, the EU is asking you personally and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for something that is very risky in the long run for education in Serbia and we will come to a situation that one day we are looking for highly educated people for individual sectors, primarily for health care, and engineers, and experts for many other areas to come from other countries, because they will not be in Serbia. So 139 people, according to official statistics, leave Serbia daily, at a monthly level of over 4,000 people, all in search of work, leave Serbia, and annually it's one city of size, that is, perhaps, an Arangelovac or something, so 50 and a few thousand people. And we're getting into a situation where we need to think about how to spin these people. You know, one bus or already one arrival of ten or twenty of some nurses who have returned is nothing compared to, it's propaganda, day-to-day political, but systematically that you do something to keep these people. You know, earlier, here, I was born in a city that was mostly an industrial, working town, where people were educated, overqualified, and you know, Mr. Minister, that for that reason it was founded there years later and the Faculty of Machines in Kragujevac, and high school, which gave such an interest in those major industrial systems, for all the factories that these informants had sold out in Kragujevac on October 5th, closed down, put people on the streets. But now this ad hoc thinking and employment -- come on, now we have this factory, we're gonna hire people, the one who worked in the metal complex can be overqualified right now, because some investors have come to sew something there on the sewing machine. It's just not good and we're against it. Of course, this member is talking about the existence of this agency. We're absolutely against that agency. And you'll see, well, time will show that we were right, because the arrival of these foreign investors is now one of the ruses that brings you some political benefits, but it's not good for a long time, because these factories and these systems that come, above all, because of the huge subsidies you give them, are there for these reasons and such qualified labour are looking for these simple occupations, and we're going to be in trouble that what they would say in the press jargon, brain response, highly skilled personnel are growing and even higher in numbers than at the beginning of my speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68918	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we who come from the village, who have a certain number of years, have had better education in that old country, in my opinion, as far as applicable knowledge is concerned. In engineering school, we had to go through all the training, all the training that was going through the craftsmen, the engineers. So we had to know how to do the string, we had to know how to do the rodent, we had to know how to do the welding, how to do the rendition, grinding, etc. Simply, that kind of education required that those who wanted to control craftsmen had to know that they were interpreting technology and drawing, they had to know and how it worked in practice. You couldn't manage others unless you had knowledge that was applicable, or that had those you wanted to manage. You had to serve first to become managers later. Why am I saying this? Imagine the knowledge without delay and renewal. Imagine a 1980 mechanic. He's got paper, he's got school, no matter what, let's say, in 1980, the auto mechanic had to have applicable skills, but if it's not complemented or renewed, then imagine a car mechanic in 2020, who didn't learn anything from 1980, he just kept his diploma. Imagine that mechanic you're giving the car to fix today's car. He may know how to fix old-timer, but today's car certainly, whatever the acquired knowledge was regular, it's not renewed, it's not renewed, it's not worth it. Today when you talk, most of my colleagues talk about dual education, they talk about the workforce. I don't just see it as a workforce. You can live on a parliamentary salary, but basically, in the world you live on work or capital or a combination of work and capital. Many of those from dual education, who do not even finish later, and if they want to, they may not only be workers, they may also be employers, they may also be employers and workers. And that's the best way to improve that knowledge. So, if the owners of craft shops, if they are entrepreneurs, they will, by their side, because they have acquired knowledge through dual education, open the shop, they will hire someone besides themselves, rather than just hire them, but will try to transfer their knowledge to the one they have hired, and the one who has been employed will eventually be left alone. Thus practical knowledge will be renewed and renewed, which is even more valuable than mere dual education for the very employment of other employers. So I believe that by renewing our knowledge, education, we can positively raise this country's economy, that it will be a valuable asset that will define foreign investors to invest in our country, if we have enough quality workforce, which is well-known and willing to provide services as an entrepreneur, as their own employer, as someone who has an enterprise or an enterprise, who will work in cooperative business with a foreign investor. I think it will restore our economy, that it will grow stronger, and that by growing the economic power of this country it will grow and the military power, the technological power, that it will mean more and more politically. Now I ask you, if our country were economically developed as some Western country, the big question is whether our neighbours would be sneering at us so much or would they want to co-operate, to be closely connected, especially the former Yugoslav republics in which our countrymen live. The issue is how Montenegro would treat Serbia if Serbia were far more economically powerful than it is today. We found an average salary of 328 euros. She's 510 euros today. It's only 180, 190 euros more than seven years ago. But the big question is if we had found 510 euros, we would have paid 800 euros today and a different song would be sung between BiH, Montenegro and Serbia and Kosovo itself, a different song than the one that is being sung today. That's why I think education is very important. Give us tractors, get us in the country. Do you think that one farmer is just as lexier, as these claim from another Serbia, that this is something that is pesoretic, that it should be avoided etc? Today, a farmer must have basic knowledge of chemistry in order to drive a tractor to protect crops in order to drive a tractor must have basic knowledge from the machinery industry. In order to use varieties in order to be a herd, he must have basic knowledge of veterinary, etc. We don't have that profile today. The labour force is missing even in the country. We're going to miss the labor force in town. Large cities have exhausted the interior, the small environments, because there is no great birth in Belgrade and Novi Sad, but do not lose the population, they are not losing because the interior is being exhausted. I ask you – what kind of schools can we have if the young population leaves the interior, and everyone, even the greats who meant something in Serbia, came from that very inside? That's why I think it's also demographically necessary to coordinate demographics, knowledge, education, but all in favour of economic development. Every honor and philosophy and music and art, etc., but I think it's economics, that economy is what drives everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68920	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68921	What we both know and most certainly here is that of a lot of things it depends on, that people don't leave less environments, but first of all, here we are, on communication. It's one of the big questions that the highways all became a network, and 15, 20 years ago, if that map looked like it was economic activity. You know, in 2000, someone started selling out property and companies with no idea what we're going to live on. Maybe it's favors, but I don't know which ones, intellectuals, I'm sure. With the whole story of education now, so Serbia is in eighth place in the world in the justice of education, which means that what is offered to children in downtown Belgrade is also offered in small areas. This means that this applies to migrant children, children from threatened environments, etc. So at least the educational system has preserved what it means to be just. Many countries give great money to achieve and make strategies, but sometimes that story will stop by the development of the locals. What we've been doing in reforming vocational higher education is reminding people of what there is a vocational school or academy, not just to educate people about what they think they can market for. That's what a privateer can estimate and fail in judgment, but I have to remind people in various regions that these are regional stories, that this area has to follow the needs of the economy. The other day, I was talking to a region that is exclusively food and agriculture, and it has no intention of establishing it. Then you must really reset the story and say that this young man has in his midst exactly what we're talking about, what Marian says, such competences. You know there's only one vocational high school for agriculture and food technology in Capco, and I guess it makes sense that there's a lot more. As they decided within the schools what they were going to do and what they were going to do, everything they needed and didn't need to do. It is the reform in this area of education that addresses the real needs of a particular region, which includes young people, the economic system, chambers in the region is involved, and I think it is a good policy. This is all just the result of what erosion has long produced and carried on.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68922	The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68923	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, my remark was not on the concept of accessible education or justice, I mean demography, of the problems we have to solve compared to education, therefore, that these skills in the interior must first and foremost be applicable in order for the investments to come. So every hour of philosophy, every honor of social science, but we cannot count on our demographic position to change because we have too many philosophers in the country, etc. What I was talking about is that the problem is that we won't even have this practical knowledge to convey to if this demographic picture in Serbia continues to be painted. It is not as much a problem as Serbia, it is a problem that Serbia is losing its population, but the problem is that the population is mostly lost inside, that we have territories that are increasingly less populated. When we lose our population in all these territories, my opinion is that we'll lose our territory as well. We Serbs, Serbian nationalities, citizens, are particularly sensitive to this because we know what it is like to lose your population in certain territories. It is very easy to settle some other surrounding nations. So, apart from education, I appreciate the efforts the government is making in terms of public renewal. So, in order for you to have someone to train inside, so that this knowledge is transmitted, to be applied, above all, to attract investors, and to keep that population, it is important that Serbia has a population, but it is even more important that this population is evenly distributed and therefore there is a need to make positive discrimination and to pay certain people in less populated areas, so that the population can return to the territories from which it has moved to large cities, so that there are children, that there are young descendants who can acquire some new knowledge in the environments in which they live to stay through investments in those territories, because the aggression of our neighbours is the most successful aggression that can be carried out on our territory, and the white plague is the most effective ethnic cleansing that we can, in our case, is also the two world wars. To tell you that Serbia is gone, the Serbian people have not had a population growth in the last 100 years. There isn't. Romanians have 28%, Bulgarians have 35%, Turks have 700% and Albanians have 1,000%. Serbia has zero. That's how our territories are emptied, and if they're emptied, those territories will be occupied by some other people. The point of my presentation was that we had to work in parallel with education, that we had to work on not keeping the territories uninhabited, that is to say, part of the population deployed to be both in favour of the village and in favour of the city. First of all, so our cities don't get overrun, that you don't have this many cars because the population has moved to big cities with a bread belly. Now we need to make some other migrations that need to lead a little bit to the inside, to make us happy in the country, and you in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68924	Thank you. The 10th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move on to this important topic, I'm going to make a practical, life example. Namely, when my colleague, Verica Radeta, said that it was simply a shame to present the names of some families in which no member works, a fellow citizen, Nikola Spasojevic, came to me and said that of the four members of the family... The average age of family members is 48 years, so when we count that average, it turns out the father is only 16 years older than the son. Indeed, that's right, that's the average, that's the 510 euros that we don't degrade at all, but we're just saying what the situation is. None of them work. His wife recently took a job at a private firm with 60 years of life, but let's go back, Mr. Minister, to this topic that is also very important. I've been looking at the organisational structure of your ministry and you have, I'd say, a solid structure. I'm absolutely sure, including you, that there are people there who are doing a great job of their own. We will not praise you on this matter. They have our colleagues here on my left who can do it better, and I'd say they exaggerate sometimes, but it doesn't matter. Our goal is not even to criticise what is good, but only to point to what we see together with the citizens of Serbia and that it could and should be corrected. What you have foreseen in this Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is that the knowledge acquired, i.e. diplomas acquired at some universities abroad, and in Article 38 of the existing law, and Article 10 speaks of amendments and additions to that law, you have provided for a regular procedure for, to say conditionally, the verification of these diplomas and in the position of the 8th of that law, you have provided for an exception. If a diploma is brought from one of the 500 universities in the world that are recognised by a prestigious organization, it should not be checked in a special way, but thus accepted. We just had that attitude a little bit better defined, and we wanted to simplify some things. We're starting to assume that someone who's following that scale of the university is also following corruption, so we're kind of sure she's not as far away as she is with us and there's no buying a diploma. Maybe some professor looks through his fingers. It's an exception and it's not that important right now. So we suggested that it be simplified. Where's the big problem in your ministry's organisational structure? You spoke for yourself – Higher agricultural school is located only in Šapec. I didn't notice that you have a sector that would have to work closely with local self-government units. You try to go out on a date. You just said Serbia is in eighth place when it comes to some equality. I can say that you, or the Ministry of Education, intervened very quickly in the middle from which I came, so in Love, when there was a fire at a school, we talked about it here, you called some of your associates in the same day and moved forward. You see, we don't have a problem saying what's right. But you just intervene there when you're already in a situation where you know there's a problem. Let's do the ministry's co-operation and local self-government units, so let's improve that. Well, you said before, I think my colleague Miletic, he was the president of his municipality, he may have made some moves to do something about it. You now have to have a sector to co-operate with local self-government units to warn some things. Your good results are rarely seen immediately, and the consequences are catastrophic. They've been seeing each other right now and in the end, and they've been following us for years. What's thrown out, that prefix from school. We're paying for it now. It seems to me that my colleague Marko Atlagic when he talked about it -- perhaps this is not the most popular thing to say from this place, but we also have to raise little parents to make the whole society better and not to have that average all the time. Our wish is that 510 euros in wishes, no one promises to be minimal, not to be an average salary of which one has only 18, 19 or 20,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68926	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68927	I would absolutely agree with that idea, and there are some in the ministry that there are other sectors that need it, but let me remind you, we are still being banned from employment. So they're off-limits to the schools themselves, but they're not the ministries. I'm missing 90 people at the maximum. So under difficult circumstances, various newspapers and processes are being conducted. We have in mind, if there is a disblocking of this process, that sectors for preschool are formed because preschool becomes a very important part of the education system and it is networked with the primary. So it's a small circle of people doing it again. It's not the attention we expect it to be. We've been talking here all day, and the laws are in order about something some countries have recognized as a complete whole. We are trying to do this by working within the current sector by creating some groups that are made by different sectors, which says teams of some special and constantly mobile overlapping teams. We created the dual sector, the digital needs sector. We need it for lifelong learning or lifelong learning, because it permeates both medium and three years old, four years old and professional. So, in some countries, there is an entire sector that connects this vertical and on one basis work, which is professional training. It's something that we imagine a child growing up that goes to sectors. It's a congested condition. So, a number of organisational newspapers should and certainly not only for local self-government but also for the state administration to have this close cooperation in some way. We have, what do you say, ad hoc. But we also have in some cases when we're doing, say, a big newspaper of the Law on Salaries, etc. I make up for it by personally visiting many schools and environments in Serbia and my teams. So we're absolutely mobile and we're always out in the field not only when it's trouble to see or open something, but we go away regularly. The circumnavigation of various places in Serbia, MPs know for sure that there are almost no municipalities where we haven't been, and it is very often our purpose to see the state of both human resources and facilities and perspectives. So let's just say it helped me a lot when we make decisions where the funds would be invested. So, it can certainly be witnessed by anyone in the ministry that no priority has been given because someone has ured, but where I've seen the eyes missing a roof, there's a missing one. We asked for serious analysis. It's one thing to read the report, and another to see the field. So anyway, that need to be monitored and seen, we can't... We have a small investment sector. It's just one basis. So we are intertwined with many activities in many sectors, and this function is somehow replaced by state secretaries and ministers. We have one body that makes up again a group of people on the job that's being transformed from time to time. These are difficult circumstances because the same people have to do a few jobs. It would be much more efficient, what you're saying, is that within that maximum number that's given and drawn, you have the opportunity to deploy those people for what you said and for what I said, but I hope it'll be in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68928	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68929	Mr. Minister, you have one easy task at all, and that is to break that thread of the Employment Prohibition Act. If we don't do it in the most recent time, the price we will pay for it, it didn't come with you, it came much earlier, it will leave far-reaching consequences for Serbia. What now the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to take some measures of population policy to make a different picture in Serbia when it comes to birth and population growth gives this poor result. It gives poor results at this point because it's been ruined for years. So you're going to have to solve this problem and your ministry is one of the first ones that should be taken to solve this problem, and how? Just like you said you were planning, and like I said, it should be done. There are very noble people in your ministry who have come true as parents, who have tried to help others. If they did it in private, the team before the ministry's obligation as a state body is to raise it to the level of principle, to raise it to the level of continuity, not to occasionally from case to case. A lot of things you do now. We Serbian radicals don't think you're a man without experience in this area. First, if someone was working privately, they wouldn't have survived for so many years if they didn't know the job. Dot. But you very often meet this path to the EU, ad hoc, solve some problems. For a while it also takes you and that law whose amendments and additions have one or two members and you and your associates. Put that aside. This is a good thing we're going to unify some occupations and some action. Knowledge, capital, economy don't recognise borders. It can't be placed in concrete frames. That goes beyond state lines. We have to meet that. These are things that need to be resolved not by changing a few members, but by systemically solving for all time. This – for all time it is necessary to take it relatively, but that is how you should behave, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68930	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68931	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to you by amendment and immediately to tell you the fundamental difference between the content of the amendments and the bill I don't see. Maybe in the middle of what I hear is an amendment with a correction, so I'm not looking at the most intense version of the proposal. Anyway, I don't see any issue in the proposal. I answered first of all because an interesting debate is under way, and the content of this member of the law which the amendment directly concerns is, I would say, particularly interesting. It concerns specifically different lists of international lists where successes are ranked, i.e. performance in different segments, i.e. different aspects. One of those lists mentioned here in this article of the law in his attitude 8 is so-called. the list of the "JS News and World Report" rating, if I read it correctly. You see, ladies and gentlemen, this list may be particularly interesting today. In a particularly picturesque way, it shows that we are right when we say that Serbia is, in a positive sense today, a truly qualitatively different country, in the sense that it has changed a lot of things in a good, successful way compared to some years behind us because this very list, a list called "JS News and World Report", can be read in the media today, says that Serbia is after the last ranking of the so-called "JS News and World Report". A ranking of the most powerful countries, as they call it, in a high position. It takes 44th place and has progressed against previous rankings for eight positions and that in this sense it is the best, most successful in the whole region, that we have left taking up that 44th position behind and Croatia which is 67th. Slovenia, which is 73rd, is a good, important indicator of how the world sees us, a good answer to the question that we often ask and also in this room – how others experience us. Here, they say, that says this research and this ranking list, that we are in these aspects that they rated the best and most successful in the region. And it's not about small success. That's what Aleksandar Vukic was talking about these days, when he spoke to our public, from Davos, and said that he was reacting with restraint, because this is primarily about ranking the military potentials of a country, and then in another place of economic achievement, while, of course, it's always kind of the most important thing that we have done in the economy for our people and for our country to do. But neither these parameters, economically, when they are ranked and analyzed by the world, or some relevant institutions, are not ugly. On the contrary, they also say Serbia has done good things and has managed to master matters in the right way. Here, let's say, this list says, we've made progress and we're better than the others in our environment, the one that deals directly with the economic aspect. And that's what we were talking about, I think, and two days ago, right on the subject of these laws. One of them, the UNDP's publishing human development index, published annually, I would say, a UN development programme, is an institution belonging to the UN directly, says Serbia has also made progress according to their criteria. First of all, you look at what you did for a year in the economy, and then how you raised it, or you didn't raise it, the quality of education, third place the growth of living standards, among those who achieved it, of course. And when they add it all together, they say -- Serbia has achieved good results in all three aspects. In 2018, in order to show this in the 2019 results, the economy further strengthened education, among other things, and these solutions. So when you criticize a dual education programme or anything else we do, you have to keep in mind -- the world still sees something different. And here are the international institutions, but also all those companies that come to Serbia say, and many say it openly -- because of those programs you set up, we want to come work with you, we want to invest in Serbia. And on that second list, we've advanced four or five places. And you shouldn't even say that, now everyone knows that, whenever we share something like that with our people as a result. It's again about rankings that are better and more successful for us than ever before. All these things have something to do with what you were talking about, with employment, yes, and there were words here today, it wasn't Mr. Peric's discussion, it was one perhaps before that. There is an additional need to provide new jobs. Yeah, we agree, and that's why we're doing it, but it's just not, you know, too much of a point when the next sentence says -- and that's why we shouldn't support foreign direct investment, which is why we shouldn't support investments if capital doesn't come from Serbia. So, right in the function of opening new jobs is to create an ambience that is attractive for these investors who come to Serbia, they want to invest here, so that's how we make these jobs. Just thanks to such an angle of view and valuable work on the plan, we can say that, as SNS MPs have said today, in hundreds of thousands have recorded, we have officially recorded new jobs. It's brand-new. So we're not talking about it, and in this sense Serbia is much more successful today, which in official formal education, therefore, is what is set up in accordance with the law and in employment is formally translated by many people who have worked on black. Just look at the results on the new year's, that we have a significant difference of 25% of the less black employees when the inspections go on tour. And then what's less, again, results in these people becoming employed as they fit, how the law prescribes it, but regardless of whether someone changes the shape and status of those who didn't have a job and there's a big difference. There's the difference and the biggest one, someone asked the question -- is there a big difference when you look at the standard before and after, so it's the biggest one for those who didn't have anything, literally nothing. No employment, and now they've got it, and that's the kind of people in hundreds of thousands we're counting today. And, yes, foreign investments are directly in the function of that. No one can say, you know, we won't. Or, yeah, but then he really risks getting down to the level, you know what? Bosko Obradovica, who rallys in front of the factory, a beautiful new factory that employs hundreds of people, and there are those that employ thousands of new employees and says - e, here we will hit the lock just to get the power. And to be followed by all those who are forced to follow him, here as you can see, half the DS is crying today because they're forced to follow him, but to make it the thought of the main stream, if that's what they're thinking, has any sense of a significant part of the former regime. That's all they're saying and that's all they're offering today. Anything to close, anything to lock up, anything to ruin just because it's not their result, but if someone wants to, they must know, there's no future, there's no luck. That brings us back to the question of what are we going to do with the unemployed? We did it today because we were working to secure the job, to get down to below 10%, when it comes to unemployment rates. And it is, it is true, you noticed well when you explained the amendment, it also has to do with the growth that Serbia achieves on an annual basis. You heard him. He was great last year. You heard what's expected today. That is what the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic spoke about and expected to be officially acknowledged, saying Serbia recorded 4% or more in the previous year, 4.1%, so this will be a fantastic result compared to what your experts were saying -- there is no way it could be, not even 3%. What you count and what the World Bank says will fail. It's not gonna happen. Again, as you can see, we were able to overcome the projection and be more successful than anyone could have imagined. I don't think this one from the former regime, the ignorant, the chronic and the notoral, but I mean these serious ones who, with a good reserve, appreciate our success. So that growth among other things ensures that wages are increased, that standards are increased. The question has been raised -- what about young people, how do we further motivate them to stay in Serbia? These are all good ways to provide them with more work, more alternatives, the ability to choose jobs, to provide them with a higher standard. When we're talking about the public sector, so here's the minister, how many times are there only in your portfolio increased salaries back a few years just? Five times. And now look, compare it to the situation where the receipts were reduced literally. It's a difference like heaven and earth. We also talked about the health care sector, here, in the discussion a few minutes ago, what are we going to do and what are we going to offer examples for the nurses? Well, even higher standard. So, just what we're doing, and I'd say we're doing with good success, because you're comparing sometimes nurses, technicians on average to what, 30,000 dinars. Today on average, over 50,000 dinars. There's a big difference. No one can ignore it. With, of course, everything we repeat. We know there's more to it, and we want it to be more, and we're going to make it more, but here we have something to say -- we know what we're doing, and it's a certain being and more. And those 50s and a few thousand, he used to be a doctor's average, no specialization. Today, for the same category of healthcare employees, 76,000. Make that difference and see it's very clear. It is well seen and we want to offer these people, in addition to those reasons relating to direct standards, better conditions and we do so when we are additionally getting equipment that is important, when we are getting instruments that they could not have and to use, which are important for people who are provided with a particular healthcare service, but also for those who need to work, to provide this service. We used to go for the famous X knife, the gamma knife we had to go to where, in some Turkey, Greece, and all of us pay to their institutions that provided that kind of service to our people. Today we can offer it all and believe it, there aren't many countries in the world that can say they own both. Serbia can say that today. To look at anything else about improving the quality of life, you will find all the answers of ladies and gentlemen in a strategic development plan called Serbia 20-25. Should I remind you? He was represented by Alexander Wolfich. He did it in public, and he talked about it in very detail. Better infrastructure, highways, and also roads of other categories that we really need, but also waterway, sewage infrastructure, but also facilities of strategic importance and these clinical centres, as well as scientific technology parks. And even more work, so, even more investment, more companies will come to Serbia. These are the real answers that a young man can say to see that there are perspectives in this country and it makes sense for me to stay in it and try to build my future. So these are all the questions that were raised during the debate about ten, fifteen minutes ago and I believe we'll agree on that, there are real answers to these questions. Of course, these real answers mean the need to do the right thing, but to think honestly and to respect when something is the result and there is Mr. Peric. When we see such appreciation, we can only be content and therefore I have nothing to object to. But only when we talk about what a trend is and what can be expected in this country. Somehow, they love those who know everything, and they have shown that they knew best that 619m euros crisscrossed, which in their pockets, which in the accounts of their companies, such as Gilas, but somehow they like to talk that, well, economists in Serbia if they are great experts, and they are the biggest experts who love and support them, and they speak all the worst about Alexander Vukic and SNS and our policy, but that economic experts, you know, have something to hold back from foreign investment in Serbia. Another one of the lies they're trying to place members of the former regime. So look, let's say, a publication dealing with macroeconomic analysis and trends. At the end of last year, people published a serious study showing that right now, thanks to the investments we provide, Serbia is undergoing positive technological restructuring. Therefore, the relationship to production changes, the conditions in it in a way that accumulates and knowledge and capital which is the basis for further increasing examples. That's great stuff. More employees with, yes, well noticed, a reduction in the total number of public sector employees, which means where these people were employed, in the private sector, in the real sector, and salary growth. That's exactly the right answer to the needs of the state. As you can see, both the profession and the science mean, with what we're doing today, there's a reason to believe, there's going to be this good trend and we're going to continue. So, I believe, these are just good answers, the average salary of 550 euros that these ignorants said would never be. I'm glad we can share the satisfaction of the fact that we've come to that point, but we should always say it, and I call for us to say it together – it's not enough and we want more. If we stick to a serious, responsible approach, work with security and show knowledge, then Serbia's 20-25 plan and projection that thanks to it, we can reach an even better average, when it comes to receiving in Serbia, to some level of perhaps 900 euros, to the level of the average wage on those values, and average pensions from maybe 430 to 440 euros. These are good things and it really deserves to be done, to be contributed by everyone in its own way. I am convinced that if Serbia is to be evaluated this spring for that kind of future, for that kind of concern, for its young people, for their perspective, for the families that should take care of this country tomorrow then, I am convinced, it will be an answer in the form of a new, significant support for Alexander Vukic, SNS policy, and it will be, there you are, Mr Peric, absolutely right, the only real solution. The only right is that which is systematic, which has shown that it can resist the teeth of time and all temptations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68932	Thank you. He has his word, according to the amendment, Natasha St. Jovanovic. You turned yourself off, you want to turn yourself back on.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68933	It's okay now. Thank you, President. As a member of the Education Committee, I simply needed to comment and to point out how much the Ministry has done in this previous period. Education and education of generations that come are an inexhaustible subject and everyone has something to say about it. I would refer to the quality of education and education, since we've had enough, and my colleague talked about this subject, and I would like to introduce the pure citizens to the NTC system, and this is Nikola Tesla's center system that they formed and put together, in fact, members of Mensa, Dr Rajko Rajjevic and Uroš Petrovic, called "The Adventure of the Brain", which refers to the way children enjoy learning and learning as a game. Why am I saying this? Because the Ministry of Education accredited this way of learning, because it recognized quality, and it's open to all innovations that will help children master material faster. Many teachers and students also went through this training to bring material closer to children. The goal is, in fact, to learn in a faster, easier and more interesting way and, most importantly, to advance gifted children, but also those children who are less gifted also achieve the great success seen within a month or two. Also, I would like to commend the Ministry of Education for its tremendous effort and work and for the large number of laws that have been passed to introduce order and discipline in this area. It wasn't easy at all, because in some laws the resistance was huge, as if you'd run into an ax's nest. Fortunately, this year Minister Sarcevic and his associates, all these years, have successfully avoided their regrets. So, I just wanted to point out that the Ministry is completely open and the Ministry is fully introducing a novelty that will be grateful for both parents and children in the coming period and how dry and narrow it is, as it has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68934	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68935	Thank you. Mr. Charcevic, first of all, congratulations on your birthday, right, 36, right? I'm a craftsman, at least in Wikipedia it says it's January 22nd. Okay, so don't be that I didn't. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, qualifications, above all in the field of applied knowledge, in the area of economy, in production and services, is what we all need to make money, because money is made by production, money is not shared, money is produced. This is the philosophy I see shared by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by the vast majority of fellow Members. During these unfortunate people boycotting the people's session, money was mostly shared, business interests were not interesting to them, because they destroyed the economy fatally. Today, they think that money is being earned through unhappiness, as you can see from these empty benches, this philosophy of theirs, at least on their own example, they are very persistent in their intention to make money with unhappiness, i.e. that money is shared and that they mostly live on the person in charge, not on the honest profit. With this in mind, a critical text recently came out in "Today" that salaries in five years, projected at 900 euros average, will destroy Serbia, or Serbia's economy. Wouldn't be weird if the second text hadn't appeared the next day. So, the government promises salaries to be earned at 900 euros in five years, it's based on GDP growth and opportunities even to borrow 50% of the debt level from GDP when you earn two billion dollars each year, you get no growth in debt to GDP, you get the chance to invest another billion in the infrastructure that you can withdraw without your debt growing. So the real projection is that they pay, which will naturally bring these activities that work in production and services, to increase to 900 euros. But, look at the wonders, they challenged it so that immediately the next day or in the day, two would print Gilas's projection, that in six months, I believe, with Bastic and Marinko, he would allow the average salaries to be 1,000 euros. So, they, those who didn't know how to make money, but only how to split it, are six months away from a thousand-euro salary, but the cost of production in five years with public investment is impossible for them. The same tabloid "Today" writes for a 900-euro salary for five years, and Gilas' salaries are possible in six months, and these in five years are not possible. I believe that Gilas is the nebula producer, probably inherited a diamond mine from his late grandfather, so that with Marinika and Bastac will turn it into wages. With that in mind, let's say the Swiss, they had a referendum that every resident of theirs, right, Mr. Orlic, won no matter how old, underage, underage, retired, gets 2,500 euros a month without doing anything. Believe it or not, the Swiss decided not to accept that kind of gift from their country, or not to receive unearned money. Now, if I were to choose whether someone gave us five billion or invested five billion, I would choose this second one to invest five billion, because production would make them sustainable wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68936	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to point 2 - Proposal for a MARK LAW You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You've received a report from the board of directors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68937	This certainly is a very important subject and it may seem to someone at first glance that it is not so important, but given what is happening in practice and how important it is to protect every transport of goods and services and the abuse of stamps, in the sense that it is happening and now that it is literally stealing a stamp, or mark that exists there or with some minor change trying to present itself as a new stamp. Then it certainly creates a confusion with the consumer and causes great damage to the owner of the original brand. What you have predicted by this law is not precise enough, precisely that part regulated because you are the one who brings this law as an EU order. That's nice of you to explain and write. You have not taken sufficient account of this part of the protection of the trade mark, in preventing the application and immediately referring to the administrative court, or administrative procedure, which is certainly not very good because it takes a long time and that someone who abuses the mark can seriously earn himself to provide, and on the other hand, to do great harm to the one whose mark is being misused. We repeat, there are, in practice, litigation and today, there is and certainly this needs to be given serious attention, not only because it is a directive or one of the EU directives, but because it is an interest, first of all, of domestic producers, because it happens that some who come here and buy certain production, that only a small change in the stamp, threatens someone who has been using this stamp for many years and by which the brand is a recognizable of certain goods. We're just distracting you, we've been doing it through the amendments, that there's still more bills to be made, it's not just formal law with many members, a solution, because the law must be at the service of every Serbian citizen and only then is it a good law, which is certainly not a word in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68938	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68939	Mr. Minister, this was an opportunity to establish clear criteria when assessing the correctness of a stamp, i.e. that there was no plagiarization of the work or the whole stamp, and here they were not in this law, it was meant to be done by experts and to be very serious with them, with consultations and employers and people who had, after all, and people who were very professional in this area of trade law and copyright, to know exactly which criteria someone would be able to protect their mark, and which little things, under the circumstances, would be rejected. The immeasurable damage can also occur in the transport of goods and services, in industrial property and at all the stamp is one intellectual, copyright and the first in which no one should enter into the Constitution of the country and not only by this law, but also by other laws. Have you considered that the Institute of Intellectual Property is still doing it in one way, I would say, a flat-rate way, because it does it by official duty and does not go into specific details when assessing whether or not it is a violation of that trade right? Because it must be given to how one average consumer thinks. The average consumer will pay less attention to a graphic solution, but it will pay more attention to the verbal impression, whether that mark verbally orders for him what remains in his head and whether, by doing so, buying one item, and thinking that it is of which he is not, lead himself astray and, of course, these producers will have one such damage. So there's a number of factors. Indeed, due to limited time, I have no opportunity to express by segments what you should have in mind, but this area is also important and since you are in a member, it seems to me that the 59th Law states that the holder of the stamp is obliged to use it explicitly opposes it. Like I said, the stamp is intellectual industrial property. If someone at one point is unable to produce or provide a service under the mark, you can't protect him who protected that right, you say here for 10 years, and it's really a short period of time to take away the possibility that he might have done it in a year, two, until he carries out some financial consolidation. You say he's obliged to use it, so if he doesn't use it at that time, then he's being punished. No, it's his right and he'll use it when he wants to and with reasons that bring him financial or other benefits. One more thing, then, is moral law, first of all, but not just what I've listed so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68940	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Comrade Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15 of this Marks Act, where I have asked to amend the position of the 2nd member. It is clear to all of us that all laws and regulations must be clearly and precisely defined. This is especially true when it comes to this specific area of stamps, i.e. the Marks Act. You know, I asked the amendment to define the subject of this law in a better and more precise way. Clearly, the mark is the greatest guarantee that it's some kind of commodity, some thing consistent with what he is and is in line with what he's supposed to represent. Therefore, the applicants for the stamp application should meet certain conditions, certain guarantees. This applies primarily to indicate the name, means the exact, clear and precise name of the horn and the services for which they seek or for which they apply for the stamp. Of course, the entire ministry or anyone who is already considering these things, it must be in detail to consider, certainly taking care of it, to keep it, or to avoid any breach of a certain degree of protection of copyright and other rights, production rights, in order to ensure that the applicant does not have any damage to it. So, you have to clearly and precisely each item, especially in this law, define, so that there are no misunderstandings, because here one little thing, one extra point, one point, or something like that, can lead to great consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68942	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Marjan Risticevic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've recently seen the brand of N1 television. N1 is not registered in APR, and has a stamp, no PIB, but uses a PIB “Adriatic News” d.o.o., which is not even the founder of N1 television. So that's one scam belonging to Sollac and Gilas. N1 is the Luxembourg media, the owner of N1 television is United Media, the owner of United Media is United Group, there are located “Dajrah Media”, “Cas Media”, Šolak, Gilas. We have no problem with the opposition, that part of the opposition because of the boycott of elections and the boycott of the National Assembly, because we did something wrong to them in the National Assembly. On the contrary, we have a problem because of Solak and Gilas's business, because they think they are at risk, because Telecom has its own regulatory stamp, which is registered, which has returned from 30% of the market to 41.5%. School SBB United Group fell from 54% to 48%. Hence, the empty benches, hence REM which allowed N1 television, Sport clubs, Nova S, Sinai and others not registered, in Serbia, canals do business in the territory of Serbia, and this same REM did not order the removal of these wild, pirated channels, which take bread, broadcast ads, domestic advertising, and if they are cross-border television and should not broadcast domestic advertising, nor broadcast the original programme from Belgrade, but to re-air the one shown in Luxembourg. He can only re-emitting commercials that show up in Luxembourg. Since there is no broadcast in Luxembourg, it is clear to everyone that there is no re-emission. But by playing commercials, they take bread from regular registered televisions, which have their own regular stamp, regular registration in the APR and in the register of electronic media under REM. Today and these days, the same unregistered group of television channels, gathered in the United Group, is blackmailing Telecom and even the brand "Telecoma", "Supernova" calls phantoms. So, those who gather over 20 phantom canals, pirated channels, dared to say it was phantom for the national company. That's why I think the stamps are very important, but it's also important to check the N1 television. Under what circumstances, not registered, broadcast the program, under what circumstances is their stamp valid, and under what circumstances do they blackmail regular domestic media and regular operator? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68944	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68945	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague, Marijan Rističević said some things nicely, it's all about con men, in every sense of the word. So, these frauds, by setting us up with all kinds of their frauds, are setting Serbian citizens up, a story about how they are doing God's work for the interests of citizens, how these media actually care about the interests of citizens, the interests of the people, and the bottom line is that they only care about their own personal and tycoon interests. To take as much money as possible in their pockets as possible, from the citizens of Serbia, and it is also shown in practice. When we look across the street, there's been a year, there's not a single piece of opposition, the representative of the so-called Alliance for Serbia, I call them the Alliance for Raping and Strangulation of Serbia, because it's the only thing they have in the content of their so-called programme is lies, rape, threats, etc. So, these empty benches, they're the symbol of Dragan Gilas's program. He enters the Assembly, finds a possible job, receives a good salary from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which, working hard, was filled by all Serbian citizens, struggling with heavy reforms over the past six, seven and eight years, stabilised the state, filled the state register, so that these, who do not come across to the National Assembly sessions, and employed in it, would receive very good salaries. And then, for example, as Balša Bozovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Čobano Tepic, Bosko Obradovic and others, and everyone under the patronage and patronage of Dragan Djilas, then come to the Assembly, hold press conferences, where they attack the president of the Republic. So, they tell a lot of lies about Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, his family, so they don't really know what they're doing. The point is to cheat, to come to the Assembly, to hire on state mangers, on the coat of arms of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to receive good wages and to do nothing. It's nowhere to be found. Serbian citizens, when they talk to us, ask, as far as, is it normal for someone to receive a thousand-euro salary and not come to their job. People are asking us to do something to make it impossible. The MP has his job, he's got his job. It is his job to be in the Republika Srpska Assembly, where he was elected in the elections, on the list that has run for office, no matter what political position we have, one we are for one option, the other for another, but we all have to do our job. For this job we are paid, by the citizens of Serbia and they are obliged and responsible for making bills, not to lie to the citizens via N1 television, which we do not know who it is, or whose television it is, but we know it is tycoon, we know it works for the interest of tycoon Dragan Gilas, Šolak, and we can say it. We will repeat this over and over again, and in this sense I support everything that counterpart Marijan Risticevic said, because he well noticed that this television is doing everything, just not working in the citizens' interest, working exclusively in the interest of tycoon Dragan Gilas, and we promised the citizens of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, in 2012, that we would all heartily, with all our strength to fight the tycoonisation of Serbia, the criminalisation of Serbia, which just the yellow tycoon enterprise, Dragan Dilas and his friends, have pushed into the tycoon and the mafia. Let me finish, for the end, it's also a false boycott they're announcing. Well, they want to say to Serbian citizens, here they are fighting each other, now they've offered their political children, from "One of the Five Million," and said they will go to the polls. So the question is absolutely a false boycott. Serbian citizens complain, so they say, "Oh, wow, I don't want to go to the election, they didn't give me a toy in REM, I don't want to play, I don't want to go to the elections, I don't want to go to the elections because I don't know what it is." They won't go to elections because they don't have a program, they have no idea, the only program and their only idea is to rob Serbian citizens and take money. Now, that won't work, and on a proposal from the President of the Republic, we decided to offer the citizens of Serbia, to cut the electoral threshold, the censorship, to join the Assembly. Why? Because we believe that there are social groups that should be represented in parliament and that it is much better for democracy in Serbia, that wider social groups can be represented in parliament. Why, someone with 100,000 voters or 60-70s, 150 wouldn't have a representative in parliament. We want to say 3% you can win the election, you have a seat in parliament. But my personal opinion and I'm confident of most of my colleagues is that you can't be part of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, that you're getting paid out of the Republic's budget without coming to your job and not working. It means that you work, only when you go to the conference and attack with lies, the president of the Republic, you work exclusively in the interest of the mafia, the tycoon and the enemy of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68946	Thank you. The 28th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68947	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party refers to the draft law on stamps in Article 30. paragraph 2 is amended and reads – at the time of the registration of the stamps in the Register, the conditions for the recognition of the mark must be met, with an explanation - the amendment is defined in a better and more precise manner by the subject of this law. Another law in a series where previous laws are replaced by something called "new". That new law, let's call it a new one, isn't so new that you could really call it that. Unlike other laws, this one has been held for a relatively long time, about a decade. This one since 2009, has been brought to absorb the directive since 2004, and this one since 2015. From these facts, at least two findings arise. First, the government adopted the practice of proposing its own ministries to bring in so-called the new law as soon as a few amendments and additions to the existing law are made. Secondly, not every European directive is the reason for the new law. The new law should be really new, to regulate something that is not so far, and what is done with us is possible to solve with changes and additions of texts with the making of consolidated texts of the law. In an explanation of even this reason for law-making, the directive has been listed even since 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68948	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 42nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Ristečević submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment is the afternoon MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68949	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, in the light of what we could hear yesterday from the Minister of Culture, Mr Vukosavljevic, where the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia supported our initiative, which we referred to several months ago, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to print that. Funding and publishing together the works of the Nobel laureate, writer Peter Hanke, a testified Serbian friend who supported us in the most difficult moments for our country and our people, has never hidden his feelings for our people. I would like the same way the Ministry of Education also to show hearing about what Serbian Radical Party MPs have been saying, above all, about this control of textbooks that appear in our country. So, we believe and should also be the strategy and policy of the Ministry of Education, so textbooks for both primary and secondary schools in Serbian language and history should not be a matter of the market and should be subject to the monopoly of the Educational Ministry. So, not to remind you of all the scandals, from the fact that "Blood Tax" is an opportunity to advance in the hierarchy of the Turkish Empire, from Croatia having an imaginary state in the Middle Ages, to all the other things we can find in that field. As for the Serbian language and the latest initiatives, where this can become a very easy and offensive opinion in the Republic of Serbia, which is that there is no Serbian language but some Yugoslav or our language common to all peoples invented and those who really exist in the Balkans. So, we think that the long-term Ministry of Education should show responsibility in this field and make sure that such things never happen again as we had the opportunity to look at these textbooks. On the other hand, we may have the understanding that something once wrong has been done in the past term, the last minister of education or the last government, or the last party or anything else, these arguments no longer have grounds because every minister has been elected to each cabinet, because someone before him has worked badly or worse and has to fix the situation and it is his responsibility and obligation to repair the situation in every resort. Such a situation is also with education in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68950	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68951	With the development of society and markets, there is certainly a need to protect the finding of quality goods, tourist and sports events and everything else that has become more and more common with us in Serbia lately. They may have needed new provisions of this law, but we don't like what you're explaining, which is why you're moving on to the new Bill of Marks, is also harmonising, or bringing a compatible situation with European Union regulations. Tomorrow, if you and "little Schengen" bring to a certain level of your wishes, will the amendments and additions of this law come? There's only need for us to coordinate this and that those who do, those who have a vision and want well to their country i.e. the state of Serbia to protect them. We will have, and we already have individuals, but mostly that on a personal level is trying to protect products of geographical origin. You who are just as eager to wait and row along the way towards the EU know what benefits they are. We personally think that this will never happen, but does not mean that the quality of the product, that their product protection in Serbia should not be protected. And you know, in the case of fixing quotas that products with protected geographical origin are not covered by those quotas, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the prices of these products are higher and several times, even mentioned ten times that they are better prices, which means that Serbian citizens will be motivated to join, above all, to have organised access to markets both domestic and foreign markets. There's a need for help. I think that the Department of Protection and Promotion can help this news, and the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, should certainly be a little more and more serious about this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68952	Thank you. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted to the Bill on Marks of Amendments on Article 82, paragraph 6, which is amended and reads as follows: "By using the stamp, it does not consider the payment of a fee to extend the valid stamp as well as the conclusion of a contract on the transfer of rights, licences and so on." In an explanation for the adoption of this law, you have listed the 2004 directive, so it is unclear that the directive is not incorporated into the text of the 2009 law, and so much has been apostrophe of the 2015 directive and remains unclear again why it was not incorporated in 2018, when amendments and additions to the law were made. Based on these facts, it is possible to draw the wrong conclusion that someone has just now thought of it, so it came to the agenda of this bill. For the adoption of a comprehensive Marks Act, it is not enough, as you have stated, to address the shortcomings of the termological nature. In order to illustrate what is stated is not a waste and a little statistics. Of the 116 members of the new law of the 2004 directive, she was involved in eight new members in the civil and legal protection work, and the 2015 directive is mentioned directly in 25 members, which means that everything else is made up of members of the old law, i.e. 83 members or percentage 71%. The essence of the law is that the mark exists and is protected on domestic and international terms. It is a good thing that this member is a legal framework for civil and legal protection, as well as for strengthening the protection of trade marks and more effective control of its counterfeiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68954	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 84th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68955	This is about protecting the sign, or, more specifically, preventing the abuse of a protected sign. There is something much bigger about protection, which is to protect ourselves from this import lobby that imports everything into this country of Serbia. We even import textbooks. We can thus say that even textbooks are imported, thanks, above all, to the resourcefulness of individuals in the state administration, and this administration is called the Serbian Government. Why? Well, because we literally copied and took some, as they say, European norms and these European norms always go in favour of those who import goods of very, very suspicious quality, of every kind, and they make a huge profit, and we cannot stand there. You can imagine what kind of confusion it will be when an electronic stamp is introduced, or a trademark, and especially what, based on the adoption of this law, the registration of trademarks, or the registration of stamps, which will be registered for 10 years. It'll be total confusion. We don't see what kind of defence mechanism the government is going to have to stand up to, say, this already mentioned import lobby, which is literally cancer on this country's tissue, and it needs to be stopped. The minister said the other day here that he had the will, had the will, had the determination to prevent this lardy when it comes to textbooks, slightly said lardy, because it's much more long-term consequences, but let's see how it's going to be by applying this law, to see how it's going to confront the larger world's companies when it comes to protection and stamps and signs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68956	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of 109 speaks of the penalties imposed on law enforcement officers, and I have asked my amendment to increase the range of these penalties. It means to increase the range. What does it matter? Well, if there's a larger range of penalties, then in a more just way they can be sanctioned by offenders of certain provisions of the law, because it doesn't matter, because it's a very specific area. So these are stamps, and it doesn't matter whether someone is punished for some trivial thing he has broken, which in its essence does not produce any negative consequences in the application of this law or someone who is responsible, in a legal person or in any other way, to bear responsibility, to commit such a violation, to produce not only extreme damage to the owner of the stamps or to the one to whom this law applies, but also to the wider social community, the environment, and therefore a differentiation needs to be done again so that the punishment is arranged in one diapazon which will cover the most justly possible sentence. So, I think that these things exist, criminal penalties for committed offences and in other laws, and I think that the government and the Ministry should take care of this not only when it comes to this law, but when it comes to the other laws proposed by the Government, and brought by this Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68958	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 112. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the basis of the education and training systems. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the Bill's proposal in detail on amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68959	The Serbian Radical Party MP group, apart from being very valuable and professional in the discussions on the proposals of certain laws and other acts, as well as in the submission of amendments and explanations of each of our amendments, we, in addition to what you impose on us to discuss, which is of course not a problem, you may be the government, but we, in addition, do, for the sake of the public, draw attention to both the Government and the Ministers for Some Crucial Life Matters, some things of national interest, and we expect the finally ministers to start dealing with both our initiatives and our proposals and not only to deal with, but to really become an integral part of our life. I will now repeat for the public, to remind myself of what it is that the SRS MPs have been in the last three, almost four years, since we have been in this assembly of the National Assembly, what we have required of the general interest from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority. We asked that the existing Law on Executors be abolished, coloquially spoken, and that a new law be passed, that the procedure of execution be returned to the jurisdiction of the courts. We asked, Ministers, and specifically of you to form an institute most urgently in Serbia to deal with the UN tribunal's rulings and with any other documentation that exists in The Hague tribunal. You can't say it's not of national interest. We asked that the Serbian state be grateful for the print of the work of Peter Hanke, and this was said yesterday by the culture minister in response to our question that talks are already being held and that a contract with the official messenger will be concluded and that is indeed excellent. It is good that there are ministers who accept our initiatives. We've asked for the criminal act to be found to be a criminal response to anyone who publicly says there's been a genocide in Srebrenica. Also, something that's so important, the national issue, it's just amazing that you don't have an understanding of such a thing. We asked for Russian humanitarian centre in Nis to be granted diplomatic status and another such centre to be opened in Novi Sad. We asked for the lowest salary and the lowest pension to be 37,000 dinars, the value of the lowest consumer basket. We asked that the admission exams be abolished for colleges. Minister Sarčević, that's good. You said the other day that it would happen. So, you can see that nothing hurts when an SRS initiative is accepted, but we would like you to accept, in addition to this, our initiative, you promised even, you said that as a patriot, you would do anything to do it, that the most urgent form of this institute for the analysis of the Hague verdicts and other evidence that exists in The Hague tribunal. That's the essential thing. What we're discussing here today in this bill, you're not fundamentally changing anything here. You're talking about the need to, I don't know, comply with this law with the Personal Data Protection Act, so I don't know what other information systems are, etc. That's more, what we have here today in this bill, that's more things for sublegal acts than essential to the law. That is why we are insisting and we will repeat to you by the end of this term which are important matters of general social and national interest and of the state interest on which Serbian radicals have been insisting for almost four years and for which you have no hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68960	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68961	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, I believe that the amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of a system of education and education are of exceptional importance and importance. In fact, they have seen shortcomings that were like difficulties in the application of the law and that they would be removed, which is precisely the purpose of amending and supplementing this law. What I particularly want to praise is that the government and your Ministry have worked hard and responsiblely, which is the introduction of a single information system of education. The introduction of a single education information system is one of the strategic definitions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its promotion is of paramount importance from the aspect of those making decisions. In order to have valid, reliable, accurate and accurate data in the education and education system, all systems must be networked and decision-makers shall make valid laws, or make proposals for the adoption of valid laws. This change is of paramount importance. I would also like to point out that 1,500 schools in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have been introduced an electronic journal, which is also significant from the aspect of the overall education system, but also from both parents and students. Also, I want to point out that by presenting the programme "Serbia 2025", President Aleksandar Vukic stressed that 600m euros will be allocated to the education system, that these funds will be used for further digitisation and internet availability to every student and every elementary school. Namely, the "Serbia 2025" plan envisions that these funds be invested in the digitisation of 30,000 classrooms, meaning digitisation in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I would like to stress that by presenting my "Serbia 2025" programme, President Aleksandar Vukic, and the area of education, said that 90 million will be spent, or used for artificial intelligence, because, of course, catching up with the industrial revolution 4.0 is of paramount importance for successful prosperity, for progress, for economic development, for a better standard of living for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. President Aleksandar Vucic, SNS policy, and, of course, government policy and specifically your ministry, have a vision of the development of the Republic of Serbia in all segments, as well as in education segments, as well as the student and parent and educational worker and employer and all Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68962	The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68963	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 30 May 2019, the town of Leskovac is the headquarters of the Academy of Professional Studies in southern Serbia, which consists of the High Business School of Professional Studies of Leskovac, the High Agricultural and Food School of Professional Studies of Prokuplje, the High School for Teachers of Professional Studies of Gjilana, with its temporary headquarters in Bujanovac and the High-Technological Art School of Leskovac. With their former work of higher school in Leskovac, they gained their reputation as modern and highly professional institutions with professional teaching staff and a modern educational process. It is also evidence that the study programmes of the High Business Schools of Professional Studies are in line with the Education Development Strategy by 2020 and that they have already followed the concept of dual education through the practical part of education in the country and abroad, particularly in EU countries, and that many employers offer them the possibility of hiring during studies, which is why this school, and now the Academy, are attractive to students from the narrow and wider region. As a prerequisite for the implementation of the dual model of the study, the law prescribes the education of the network of employers with whom the higher education institution cooperates, who need the staff that the higher education institution educates. The University of Professional Studies in Leskovac was the first to form the Employers' Council on 27 January 2018, through which employers can influence the type and quality of the study programme. That is why we can rightly expect that these are already good foundations for the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68964	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 2 of this law speaks on what conditions children of foreign citizens, persons without citizenship and citizens learn Serbian language as foreign language unless they know it. And that's where the law added this attitude, which is fine. However, I asked my amendment to make these things a little bit better and clearer. For what? Well, we have a situation that a large number of people without citizenship, a search for Serbian citizenship, and other nationalities, that Serbian language is their native language. It must also be stated and specified in the law. Then it is absolutely unnecessary for these persons to be considered as Serbian foreign language when it is native. So it's not only when people are Serbian nationalities, but we know that there are many people and other nationalities whose language is Serbian. Today they can call it both Bosniak and Croatian and Montenegrin, etc., but we all know it's basically Serbian and they understand that language. So this thing needs to be laid down by law so that there are no doubts and, above all, to meet these people in learning this language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68966	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68967	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposed amendment to Article 73 of the basic law has been specified to pass a class examination in accordance with specific laws, since special laws governing primary and secondary education and raising exams have already been arranged. However, we believe that this formulation of yours, that it is insufficient and that it is necessary to further specify and that, in addition to harmonising with specific laws, this area should be specified and aligned with the relevant rules. The law without the proper regulations is just a dead letter on paper. This is especially visible in one of these sensitive areas. We therefore believe that the passing of the class exam must be clearly and precisely defined and that our amendment intervention, particularly in the legal text, stresses that the passing of the class examination is, in accordance with the specific laws and the relevant rules, more precise and comprehensive and that such a solution contributes to improving the application of the law itself and removing all ambiguities and possible failures, as well as any abuses during its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68968	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68969	Article 5 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Education and Education System refers to Article 96 of this Law, and it speaks of foreign institutions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. they are part of the education and education system. The First Law says who can establish and who can have that institution. Article 2 provides for conditions, i.e. the fulfilment of conditions. You have proposed to the bill to delete the words ‘verification of the institution’. Well, you say that instead of “verification”, there is “approval for work” but before that it is said: “The professional institution must meet the conditions for the establishment, start of work, perform work, or receive a solution to the approval of work by the Ministry.” We have proposed this little change instead of "verification of the institution" – "approval for certain work" and then there would be no such ambiguity, no grammatical irregularities. Mr. Minister, we have to tell you, we can't trust you at all, by introducing this unique educational number, if that makes sense in the way we see it, and we expect it to be, it means that when someone enrolls in a preschool institution, they get their unique educational number, and then they follow him as a unique home number, they follow him for all the time in his education. If this were indeed true, then it could not happen to us to take over diplomas from higher education institutions, take over, buy or some birthday gifts, for example, to be in the parking lot of Sava Center or elsewhere, then there would really have to be a certain level of knowledge and education. You, as Secretary of State, do not say in your Ministry, but in the Government of the Republic of Serbia there are people we know that I don't even know how many years, 10 or 15 years ago, were people with a finished trade. They now carry the most prestigious titles of doctors, professors, professors, extraordinary, regular professors. Some went to Sokolac to lay down, some may even be, Mr Mircic, and in Novi Sad, Belgrade, we don't know exactly, but it's for the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, and it's not a problem if he had that diploma and he didn't talk about it. It couldn't cause any damage. It may cure some vanity of that particular individual, but they often find their place in public enterprises, in state authorities, and that's not good at all. You know that there are such things as you and I together, pointing to certain and specific problems we have to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68970	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68971	It has been shown in practice, Mr. Minister, that this project of centre training and these additional educations and practical classes has not been as you yourself expected, but above all, as Prime Minister Ana Brnabic announced. Last year, in Kragujevac, in March, at a former political school, which otherwise marked 165 years of work, which educated a large number of workers in destroyed metal, first of all, a complex that existed in Kragujevac, which these yellow ones shut down after 5 October, opened a “c centre” to train young students to work on these machines, which is a popular interest in the West. However, her claim, Mrs. Brnabic, that by opening such centres, where there is a possibility, Serbia will become a country where the cheap workforce is no longer a cheap workforce simply isn't true. All these people who have been through such or similar training, such as in Kragujevac, Pancheva, Bribe and announce, with help, there is a confirmation of our story from the beginning of today's work, Germany is above all interested, because these training centres are mostly funded by companies from Germany and the German Embassy, that they work in Serbia for poor wages, for this minimumer who is 30,022 dinars, and the minimum consumer basket is 37,000 dinars. So what kind of message do we send these young people? It is good that you are reorienting to something that is now wanted, first of all for German companies, for companies that receive 10,000 euros from Serbia for the opening of each job, and then what will happen to you when one day the need for such interests ceases, no one is absolutely interested. Do not send such a message to young people, and here you have fenced yourself in this law from the fact that it is possible to open such centres anywhere, because you depend on these foreign investors, so you said, well, you wrote – where possible, or where there are funds. Here's how these funds came into Kragujevac. "Simens" gave former Milanovic's firm certain funds, so the German embassy, some other companies, because at this point they need it, because it's normal for them to have such machines, equipment in that "Simens" company that is open, as in some others, and will it be necessary in the future and for what salary will these people work for? We will see, but certainly do not deceive Serbian citizens that everything is nice and that it works for 500 euros when these people, who have finished, are 36, and get a job at those training centres, work for minimum wage.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68972	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68973	Ten training centers aren't even equipped yet. So the government's decision also made to realise the remainder of one loan to IBO 2.8m euros. It's too early to talk. It is certainly in Vrnjačka Banja Center for hospitality and tourism and has nothing to do with the Germans and anyone. When we talk about Kragujevac, it has yet to be checked whether it will be a good model, because "Milanovic Center" is a public-private partnership. We've done something else in the education system in Kragujevac, and as you know for two years we've networked two technical schools into one powerful. Kragujevac is a center and professional academy and we will invest extremely much in the development of universities and engineering studies and the Institute for ICT was founded. Whether it will be realised through the company with "Milanovic", it can always be seen or broken. "Simens" is a large company that wants to invest, but these centres must be much more quality. I was at that center in Berlin and I saw with the prime minister what is the latest achievements in all areas. In Berlin, the training centre is worth 600m euros. So it's a huge miracle, and it's not just "Simens", it's a lot of other cooperatives. So here you have from 3d printers to all modern studies, newspapers in the education system for this VE or that professional story. 21/3 TĐ/IĆ We are in Kragujevac close to making this vertical of quality secondary technical education, professional and academic education. What happens next at the top of the pyramid? These are the centers for lifelong learning. For your information, we'll be in Kniæ, next door, which has space, so we're doing a project, so that this center can be further in Knic. It's a small town. It's important that we encourage. It's close to Kragujevac. So we're going to work, our national centre on that basis, and now on the initiative of part of Knic, and more of ours, because they had only a good will, they had no idea, we were able to make a new concept. I think it's going to be visible this year what's going to turn out. I can't give a second court. This is something that might be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68974	Right on the replica, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68975	I didn't tell Mr. Minister that these 36 people, students who are ready to work on CNC machines, didn't do well in those training centers, learned to work on those machines. The point is where they're going to work and what money they're going to work for. The prime minister said exactly what you're saying - ten we'll open training centres in Serbia and Serbia will stop, quoting her words, being a country of cheap labour. She even promised salaries for individual training centres where she would put people on, that the salary would be 1,000 euros. Don't send a message to young people that they're promised, I mean it's yours, you're campaigning to promise whatever. The Serbian Radical Party promises that the minimum in Serbia will be such that it monitors the consumer basket. So the 7,000 dinars that are now missing we will provide, as well as a minimum pension that must be so. You have wondered so many times at meetings in December – how. We told you how. We've got a clear check for you. As for our principled attitude that now those from the West should come to tell us that through practice we will train young people, Mr. Minister, that said school in Vranjska Banja has existed since 1949. Seven hundred regular students attend classes in this famous school that has brought out truly top, first of all, from the culinary area of experts, people who later opened their own facilities, many of them are both owners and restaurants and Vranjska Banja and other tourist centers both in Serbia and everywhere in the world, and now none of us on the side should come and tell us that through practice we teach these young people. The point is to create conditions, to strengthen Serbia's economy, Serbia's economy, our domestic economy, so that it can pay more for those people who have acquired knowledge and acquired practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68976	The right to replica has Mr. Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68977	We didn't get along again. So we're talking about training centres through NOK. NOK is the National Qualification Framework. There are public education organizers doing this. I can get privates, whoever registered goes through that model. However, our institutions are much better quality, and here is the intention of them being equipped top-notch, to become these centers. So, not just our students. They are trained here through regular forms of teaching and practice and all that. Since the spa is very strong, precisely because of it, we've already intervened there twice, so the kitchen is new, and the restaurant is renovated, but you haven't been to Chajetina, you haven't been to other places that are much worse, they need them to be the center that when they come to get better equipment. Of course, it's a domestic mind, and above all there's a goal of our institutions, resources, personnel and this equipment, which I was talking about, missing it coming in so that our facility would do it better than who just started yesterday and has no idea. So that's the purpose of those ten centers and there are few. It's the first ten centers, because many areas can't get into the equipment for the 2.8 million. So in a further strategy, I'll take care of it anyway. You'll hear in March what will be done on the equipment of high school centres.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68978	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The 8th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In light of the changes in education that are very often seen to be discussed several times a year in the National Assembly, it also shows us how stable this situation is and how satisfying it is. A little, little bit, so these laws change, new things are introduced, things are invented that didn't exist before, EU lawless directives are fulfilled, of course, and in all the restaurants, as well as in education. Since we are in a situation where every day we are overwhelmed by the great amount of false promises, marketing tricks, unreal promises with respect to some of the brightest moments of Mladjan Dinkic and others, of course, of course, of the demagogue tricks, I am interested, since you are here today, Mr Minister, to tell us, as someone who is from that resistor, at the head of that resistor, the Elder of the Ministry of Education - as long as the initiative and activity of the President of the Republic of Serbia has arrived who said that he will visit every elementary school in Serbia, every toilet and that we must no longer allow the toilets and the basic schools to look like that in Serbia? Are you after today, now there will be almost four more years of your term, you can tell us – the President of the Republic has visited so many schools, so many toilets, and he has found that, for it has to be separated so much and so much money because we cannot allow educational institutions in Serbia to look like that? So, have you perhaps had one analysis of this activity to inform the National Assembly today?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68980	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68981	My job is not to lead the PR president. He has service for it and keeps records of where he was when he was. I know I've been with him at least one 15 times in various schools, facilities. I'm sure while he was prime minister. We've been together more than once because that's when that strong first cycle started that we've brought 900 objects to work. If you've looked at the 2020 budget, 60% has been increased exactly by a fraction of the investment. They didn't enter the funds for higher education and for the student standard. The number of such objects where only the toilets are missing came down below 100 if we speak somewhere around 2,650 objects. We're saying that some constitutions have two, three objects. They're working intensively. I am grateful that local self-government is involved in this procedure. He's got some crazy comments. There's this great school in Kragujevac, I think it's a "Dosite" or something that thanks to the local self-government only started doing these toilets because they're just squatters, but they're not old. It's something else. They want to make English toilets. It also requires good hygiene, but they immediately made a jew – well, they don't need drones, they still have squatters. The school has 12 parallel cabins, and in order to do two, they've opened up the teacher's, they've put down those moving ropes, they've made all the hygiene, so it's slowly ending. I'm going to have the exact data because you're doing that information for this unique information system because for the first time, you might have exactly how many halls there are for physical, how many terrains there are. We've listed with one six major sports alliances, these days and with Athletics to see what condition they're in. Once upon a time, they remember the older ones, and the landing ground to jump further in the courtyards and toss the ball and a lot of what happened. It was a kitchen. So now you're using resources. Someone mentioned it here – it has to be done in progress until it's designed exactly as it should be. So they use the existing resources of the school institutions if the school works in one shift alone and extended. So what's really important is, if I compare it, I've been working in education since 1979, all periods etc. And I've been in some S.I.E.L.D. as an employee, I remember all these times, and I think this last three-year period is the most intense in terms of rebuilding buildings and building. I wish for about 30, 40 years each worked annually by 20 objects would be where better. In the next period I expect and you will hear in the strategy it is necessary to invest even more, that in cities where there are still many children and residents work and upgrades, there is an annexation of a certain space for both secondary schools and primary schools that are now well-intentioned with a lot of students. This can also enable quality education and all other components.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68982	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68983	Mr. Minister, there was nothing wrong with my exposure. Neither did I want to undermine your career, nor did I think that you were the PR president of the Republic, simply, I was not in a position, nor was the President of the Republic here when discussing the laws on education, and you were behind him when he talked about it. So for that reason, I asked the question. That may have been a little cynical of me, but I want to point to one trend that has nothing to do with education, but everything in Serbia. Promises are made here so they have to meet several conditions. One of them is to be very, very desirable for the ear of listeners or viewers and it usually takes two to three days, sometimes seven days, if someone hangs up and discusss it all. Like when it was this pointless story about toilets and toilet tours, it's like it's the responsibility of the President of the Republic. We also had cases to watch as the President of the Republic, i.e. The prime minister, taking in citizens from 5 a.m., so it only happened once or only twice, and it was supposed to be once a week or once a month, or whatever. I want to tell you, as in the education portfolio, as in any other portfolio, what has not existed in Serbia for years is predictability. So decisions are made from today to tomorrow, and it is often impossible to implement what some of the top members of the regime think up. So is this. Please, I'm very sorry if you found yourself offended. I was talking about what's the basic problem, one of the basic problems that I still think is most important in our education and education system, and that's the question of textbooks. In addition to us now playing the German standards, Swiss pensions, etc., and then we accepted that dual education, then we really thought that we were actually Switzerland and that we could do something like that in Serbia. So these are some topics that I think we should discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68984	Right to replication, Minister, Mr. Sarcevic, and then MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68985	Just so we're clear, I didn't think for a second that we had bad communication, and I didn't answer like that. I wanted to explain more. Secondly, it pisses me off that one day we don't tell ourselves -- well, we can be like Switzerland or some successful country. They told themselves that 250 years ago, and when it's the first time something like that wants to be done, it needs to be persistent and consistent. I guess that's our Serbian trait, that we're talented to go, and maybe we know how to stop before the deadline. So I'm really doing this with a lot of heart and desire and I see, for the first time in a long time, that things happen in advance. I remember when I was a kid, I had a lot of cousins, and then it was a poor time, people built a house by making the first record, so they went out of the tenants to live under the first plate, and then they went on the wall floor, they were plastered. You will find many houses in Serbia that are not embalmed. So if we wait for all the conditions to come, that's what I'm trying to say to myself and to younger people, we'll never wait. Again, people, we have had a very difficult period that has not had many European countries. We can go back to 1986, 1987, 1988, not to mention the communist arrangement at all, but to talk about when the state is stable, things are going well. So it's been unstable for a long time, and now it's finally one period of stable time, when these things can be seen better. You can't criticize the leader of a country that has invested all this energy, all the work, and I am so grateful to him. I've said this many times - to anyone who does something for the benefit of Serbia's children, I take off my hat and all the honor. Is that enough? Well, it's probably not enough yet. But I think in the next period, if I'm a minister, of course, I'm going to insist that as many things as possible, money, equipment and everything comes to children because they deserve it. They're smart and they're also worth seeing how they're looking forward to when they've got microscopes and new computers and anything. I think we should all do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68986	Here you go, colleague Orlic, thank you for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68987	Since the President of the Republic was mentioned, in the context of what it was like -- promises that should sound nice, and then there's nothing of them, so it's said here. You see, what's the basic difference between Alexander Vukic and all the others who would desperately love to be Alexander Vukic, but he's never gonna be able to, he's just looking at what he's saying first and foremost, which when he says something's going to be kind of a rule, he turns out to be right and he least cares about whether something is popular or someone's ears are nice, but he takes care of what's true. To behave differently, to act like they tried to impute him for a little while, so if we were dealing with fiscal consolidation in this country? Everyone knows how unpopular this is. But as far as the truth and seriousness were concerned, the honest relationship with the future of this country, when it was as a subject, the unpleasant but inevitable, was set up by Alexander Vukic, and he said then, and he lied nothing -- when this job is done, it will be much better for this country and we will have grounds to be, in every sense, and in terms of average income, and wages and pensions, better than at a time when these unpopular measures are being carried out. And he didn't lie. That's why Alexander Vukic has more than half the people in this country. And those who give themselves that luxury right, imagine, to comment on it this way, the wrong way, you know what happens to them? They're all under the census, starting with Gilas, and then moving on, you won't find one among those who here in this room speak to people who are able to say, and if we bring down the censorship tomorrow from five percent to three percent, they'll feel comfortable and they'll find it affordable. Because they gave themselves the right to be Alexander Vukic, and that's how they underestimate - that's where he is and where they are. And when you say, Mr. Minister, we spoke here, so we did, we spoke, and how many different school facilities in this country were arranged and how important the infrastructure in that direction we just arranged, but not just in that, but, you know what? It is not a problem that some MP does not know how many schools Alexander Vukic visited, the problem is that of another kind, which is a national MP and is not enough session of the National Assembly itself, he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68988	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68989	I apologize for giving myself the right to talk about the situation that really happened in Serbia. Maybe I should have read the SNS Informor or watched the SNS promotional videos, then I'd probably know a real picture of what's actually in Serbia, not what's when it comes out on the street. I'd really like to live in a country of SNS promises, their propaganda, Journal 2 of RTS and the rest. I really wish that was our reality. They promised $100 billion in investment when they came to power. They promised to open an office for quick answers, reduce party employment, reform bureaucracy, whatever. They promised a chip factory, the most modern, into which more than four billion euros will be invested. They promised Mercedes Serbian. They promised that at no cost would be taken from the pensioners, that there would be cuts in other places, that they would be saved in other ways, that pensions were acquired rights and that they should not be touched, and after three months we realized that pensions were not actually acquired and that pensions should be touched, that pensioners were reconciled and that they were grateful to the SNS for taking pensions against the constitution, because pensions were acquired rights. It's all been our chance to see. I said two examples that seemed to me like some two unserious measures. I'm not saying that all promises are unfulfilled, but there are really many, especially the most sounding ones. I'm not saying you're the same as the previous government, but you're way out of line in what you think of yourself and what you think of yourself, but what you really are in these last eight years of your power.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68990	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68991	What do you call it? When a man goes in a row, it's all wrong. We don't know what's going on with the issue of party employment in Serbia, about which old Aleksandar Vukic and SNS are, and who introduced the measures to limit public sector employment? Aren't they the ones before us, the ones who were champions just in that kind of employment? There's something I wouldn't say. This is what the state of which the old Alexander Vukic and the SNS have done and now someone finds themselves saying – no, no, you are multi-partyly hiring by abolishing these mechanisms. Let's make a deal with each other first, if you're reducing the number of employees in the public sector, and then where are you partying mass employment or what are you doing? Well, that's exactly what you're fighting. So, if someone wanted to hire a party, they would tie their hands by limiting that kind of resource. That doesn't make any sense, but that's not the first place, not the last place. What about the investments, they say? Well, nothing, just so much that today in those billions, euros or dollars, as anyone loves, Serbia has these investments more than everyone else in the region combined. How many times have we talked about it, but it needs to be in this room to hear it? He should be there to hear it, that's what I pointed to earlier, so he might as well know. Anything to take and add, from the region as many as there are, on one side to put, and on the other to put Serbia, Serbia has more investment. Is it fulfilled or not fulfilled? Every year it gets better and better. Once again, each one puts his finger on his forehead to answer. They say – standard, they say – wages and pensions. Did Aleksandar Vukic say, and he said that he lied about nothing, and he didn't lie – there would be more pensions than before we went into fiscal consolidation measures. Look at the actual state, compare the numbers, and you'll see, bigger ones are. You want to watch the pay? What's bigger, 329 then or 510 today? We agree, it is not disputed, the people of the SRS parliamentary group said today, we came to quota 510 and they lied, not Alexander Vukic and SNS, but members of the yellow company when they talked – it will never be 510, remember, they promised to vote for us when they came. Well, here it comes. Then someone says about standard or salary – we were wrong about something. No, we were absolutely right, but, you know what, it's not a problem when someone wants to admit it, the problem is when they want to mock good results. And they're good and there's no need to underestimate and one who has a slightly higher pension, or one who has a better salary and because of what he has today and who's going to have an even bigger tomorrow. It's not good to underestimate anyone who's got a job, sometimes he didn't have one, so he had to get by. And, where it says so, it's the least important, but when someone says – it says in the SNS informant, it does, it does. Among other things, there are a lot of good, beautiful, facts-based things in that publication, so it says all of this. But it doesn't matter if you read them there, or if you hear them in the O.R., or if you hear them when the good things for this country are spoken personally by Alexander Vukic. Just listen or read, generally, a SNS informant or any other source, reading doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68992	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68994	First of all, one fundamental remark. Before the break we had here a controversy, i.e. a replica of the presentation of certain MPs, they took place between Alexander Seselj and the representative of the SNS, and at the time when it was perfectly logical to give an opportunity to the opposition MP to respond, traditionally according to the established methods already determined a break. It is no problem if you want to show in this election campaign that everything is positive, but the sincere question was by Serbian radicals towards the minister. What is related to this law, and the minister has repeatedly stressed, Ministers you said this was primarily done for the purpose of protecting the system and data on individuals. What kind of coincidence is this, Ministers, we accept that this is the intention, but what condition is it that the coincidence that the maintenance centre of this system is located in Zagreb. You have a system that's being applied, it's electronic journals, it's e-mail logs, as you mark them here, so you don't know if they're electric, or if they're electronic, what kind of energy minister we have, it wouldn't be a wonder to say they're electric, because they're understood in energy. But let's get back to serious things. When some malfunctions occur in the El Dnevnik system, for a short while, when you call that a problem has arisen, contact you in liquid Croatian, there theirs, although it is native Serbian, explain everything to you. When you ask how to respond in that language, they say, well, of course we answer because it is Zagreb. Then how can individual systems and data be protected if the centre for maintaining this system is in Zagreb? That's what it means. All data, biographically and everyone else related to the student, implies information about his parents, implies a lot of that data which is and how, in this way, accessible to those who want to handle that data. Let's not pretend to be naive and not be in Zagreb, that it's anywhere that the center knows how to manipulate. So let's not be surprised if the president of the state is permanent in the situation of speaking to the Germans, running away from seeing you, don't drag me around. How are they pulling the frames? Well, through this system that's protected by the ministers, you read the data, you see what the average grades are, you see who the talented students are. You have ministers, among other things, an example of mathematical high school. Mathematic high school students start recruiting in the second and third years to study, to continue studying abroad. The question is, will any of them come back here? The huge funds, by the way, that I'm not talking about it, are huge potentials, that's Serbia's mind. We also need to keep Serbia's mind on the record as our own, something that belongs primarily to the Republic of Serbia, and that is why we can say we have the greatest wealth. This, as long as it's in someone else's hands, information, Minister, we can't rely on fair correction. Besides, it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68995	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Mr. Stojanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68996	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 of this Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I asked the amendment to define a member of this 10th law in a better and more precise way. The Serbian Radical Party opposes the introduction of this unique educational number, as this is also another in a series of evidence that you are blindly following the EU and their education policy, which has already started here since 2000 with applications, which has brought down our traditional values in the field of education. Every citizen of Serbia, including a child born under the applicable law, gets a unique home number of citizens, well, isn't that enough for schooling purposes, but this particular JOB you want to introduce. The next thing you know is the copying of students and students, or all of Serbia's citizens. This law is bad, i.e. the proposed amendments and we in the SRS feel that a new law should be passed and that all education laws should be restored to our traditional values and therefore this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68997	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have asked my amendment to delete point 3 in Article 11 relating to Article 177 of the basic law. I didn't ask for it by accident, but for a very practical reason, and this point is about data collection, about children, students and adults. So, the data collection, among other things, is said to include data on socially endangered categories. Also, this member of the law says that it is necessary to collect data on social status, housing care of students, family status and so on. We who have worked in education for so many years know from experience that these are the most sensitive data that some students want to give. A lot of them, especially those who hit these things don't want to give information or give the wrong information about not having one room or sharing a room with their brother, sister and so on, because unfortunately we have a lot of those who are tenants and so on. Imagine, his colleague writes that he has five rooms available in the house, and he is sharing with brothers, sisters, or with whom one room or one room in a sub-unity facility. It is said here, however, that it is primarily collected for statistical purposes, but we know that these things are changing, and even for these statistical purposes there will not have any particular and great benefits, so I think that this data, this very most sensitive data that can create the problem and which create the problem, the practice has shown in a number of children and students, should not be collected from students, but to this data, of course, which is important for social work centres and some other social institutions, to come to this data in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u68999	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69000	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's about the register of accredited higher education institutions. Here in one position, the government's proposal says data on its own income will be recorded. Now what I don't understand is whether these own revenues, whether this budget support or only your own incomes are earned by the work of higher education institutions. Why would I ask that? You certainly know that recently this rector, a political activist and so on, said the government had reduced the volume of funding to Belgrade University, which was not true. Therefore, revenue consists of budget support and own revenue. The Belgrade University before becoming, before the Rectorate, poorly led economically, became the Union of Serbia's den, a political den, where the Rector Ivanka Popovic, I believe, grew to be a political activist of the Alliance for Serbia and would not be surprised to become the bearer of the election list of these 1 out of 5 million, to be the leader, a team earlier, as political activities carried out in the Dictionary with her schoolmates. Although they were still students, she became a rector in the meantime, but since they studied for 12, 13 years, I guess there's the same generation. So she, along with them, challenged a certain, political way, a certain calling, and in that she thinks she has succeeded. If that's what we'd do then some other political furniture that takes over the Rectorate could cancel her calling, I don't know if it was acquired in Rio De Janerie or elsewhere, but the minister certainly knows better than I do. But what was an absolute lie, that the government reduced revenues or reduced donations to Belgrade University. It wasn't true. She gave more than 800 and a few million, but revenues, while Ivanka Popovic began to manage Belgrade University, revenues fell by 1.3 billion. Well, the overall budget, the total funding, is not budget support reduced by the government, it has been increased on the contrary, but thanks to the poor management of political activities, Vice-President Ivanka Popovic, poor management of the university has produced a loss of 1.3 of its own income, and I look forward to the fact that future management in the registry will also have to show budget support, probably its own revenues, and then we will see very easily who earns, who spends what he has, and who deals with politics with political activists, wishing to harm not only the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to harm the image of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69001	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. According to this amendment, Serbian counterpart Filipovic also reported. Here you go, Mr. Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69002	It is simply impossible to resist the challenge when the Belgrade University rector is mentioned, this very expert, the moral gromada from the University of Belgrade, which instead of giving students an example of how they should learn, learn to develop, and tomorrow, to gain good jobs with these acquired skills, it gives students actually advice on how to act politically, how to unthink what they get in college and how to make up for the time spent in their colleges. So, instead of the group of people gathered around it, as probably one of the future leaders of the "one of the five million", as my colleague, distinguished Marijan Risticevic, said, instead of doing something and learning, they are announcing their election and are currently hiding, perhaps who will be their bearer, one of five million. Then, when we talk about the expertise on these diplomats, Col. Risticevic was a great start on the subject, and everything related to education and quality of education in the Republic of Serbia, it is likely that expertise and knowledge should be expressed especially in those people who run the country and decide to do politics in the state bodies, that this expertise and a special type of elitism to which they are called and who assign themselves those names of professors, doctors, experts who are big for everything and everything, it has been shown in fact that from 2000 to 2012, we have a group of people in power who are all but professional. They were only trained to steal, to steal as much money from citizens as possible, but it turned out that the knowledge they acquired or acquired was not to be acquired in college. Those skills were not seen by Serbian citizens in their lives, more specifically they saw in a negative context, which should never have happened. It only says that these diplomas are wonderful, which they are invited to, in fact, their diplomas are fake, and here you have great experts like the one whose vineyard worked in a few months, and then closed it down, so you have a respected great expert on legal matter Balša Bozovica, you have a huge gromada and a moral and professional Marinika Tepic, so you have this semi-literate Bosko Obradovica, and now that they would hide all their impeccableness and immoral, they have to do what? It is the person who constantly about honesty, so they do exactly that, attacking honest and honest people who have acquired their knowledge in colleges, schools, etc. screened from 2012 to 2014 until today. They showed that the public debt in Serbia was reduced by employed over 250,000, new jobs we got, over 200 new factories, by building more roads than Broz's time, by the fact that schools today are incomparably better than they were, by having dual education, by encouraging our children to learn, and by learning to acquire new knowledge, and new jobs and new opportunities for themselves in life. So this government gives the right example today to children in Serbia that knowledge can do something fair and above all for your country, and when you do something good for your country, it means that you have done something good for yourself and your family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69003	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. Was there anything you wanted, Mr. Ristichevich? No, good. You want to do it again after the amendment? Okay, here you go, straight to the replica, I see you've... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69004	Yes, a replica of the Serbians. It is for us to advocate the same policy, Mr. Chairman, but Mr. Serb and I are two parliamentary clubs. Speaking of this great locksmith, Balša Bozovic. So, for me, it's a miracle that he dared to be against Serbs and believers in Montenegro, that's amazing. That Serbs from Montenegro support Serbia, and that Balsa Bozovic, who I know is originally from Montenegro, is what I welcome, but that he is against Serbs, believers in Montenegro, is unimaginable to me. But, Mr. Minister, if you'd like to check something out for us, we keep asking for the Balša Bozovic locksmith's degree, if he's graduated from locksmith, I'm not sure. He heard that Tito was a locksmith, wanted him to be a little Tito, or a little locksmith. He still wants to be an Austrian soldier, and close to that, to be an Austrian soldier and to attack Serbia, to get into some trench, and I think that the fat one from some yellow trench has set foot against the state of Serbia and that we know what we're dealing with, and that you are a minister carefully, look for that diploma of Balša Bozovic. There's these birds from the flag, here's these eagles, they're answering and they're telling us, they're saying that diploma's a little suspicious. Since the rector won't, this political activist won't check it out, he's not among these graduate lawyers at Belgrade State College. He's gone. We were looking for, we couldn't find anyone else from Zivkovic's degree, we don't know anymore, and he says he graduated from the Higher Economics in Belgrade, which is not there, it seems to be a higher trade, evening with dinner, in Nis. And those intellectual giants with all these diplomats stood up against someone who graduated with an average of 9 comas something, etc. Not wanting to be a finance minister's lawyer, to find us a degree in Balša Bozovica, if you already can't, because you can't dig the whole Nis, you won't find a diploma and see if it's true that the missing exams at Belgrade State University that he said he finished, he gave it to a private, or party colleague Vesna Rakic Vinodelic or Vinelic, I'm not sure, since they are Zivokovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69005	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. According to the amendment, Professor Miladin Ševarlic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69006	Thank you very much. I'll use my five minutes and allow Mr. Minister to ask you with two comments on the suggestions. Most of the parents' objections, regarding the Ministry of Education, refer to textbooks. That's what this was all about. I'll give you one example. A second-class English textbook, printed in two-part, first textbook, and then a workbook. Next year, it was printed as a single publication, a textbook plus a workbook together. This means that the previous year's textbook, which differs by nothing compared to the previous year's textbooks, you had to buy again, instead of just buying a work book. I don't think textbooks and accompanying materials, supplemental materials, in primary schools should be in the function of assembling the profits of publishing houses. Secondly, there are a lot of problems with history textbooks. This was about not allowing foreign publishers to print textbooks from history, Serbian language and geography, which I support. It would be good for the Ministry of Education to be the initiator of a public debate on the subject and to take advantage of the time between the two election dates, the first round and the second round to discuss it with representatives of all stakeholders. Thirdly, you finance projects, so-called basic projects, research institutions, but you allow application projects, too, to work only scientific and research organisations. Why couldn't it be done by scientific and professional associations, because then they can choose the most innovative personnel or experts, not just from Serbia, but from the GEPS, a group of experts of Serbian origin, who have about 8 thousand in the records of Professor Jovan Filipovic, from the Faculty of Organizational Sciences? Or that some scientific and research organizations unite the most capable personnel to give the most comprehensive solutions, which the economy needs to take advantage of. Fourthly, I would like to ask you if the Ministry of Education would be involved together with the Serbian Academy of Sciences in the affirmation of a rather forgotten academic named Milos S. Milojevic, born in Black Bari in 1840, and died in 1897 in Belgrade? He was a regular member of the Serbian Student Society, the Committee for the Sciences of State and History, and further since 1870. He is a lawyer, philosopher, philosopher, historian, professor and director of St. Sava's religion in Belgrade, and this is the year when we are still marking the 800th year of Orthodoxism. He was commander of volunteer and uprising troops, in the Serb-Turkish wars, in 1876. – 1886 and a participant of the Berlin Congress in 1878. He was in the collection of folk songs and customs. Thanks to his dedicated work, the children's... The oldest and most valuable document, kept in the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He wrote the history of Serbs, which came out as a passage of part 1872, printed in the state press, with the support of the then-Serbian learned society. What did Milos S. Milojevic do? It affirmed it in Machva and beyond, realised scientific and professional gatherings, with the participation of scientists from the region, primarily from Serbia, Montenegro and Republika Srpska, as well as from Belarus, Russia and other countries. I think that in this way, "Days of Milos S. Milojevic", we would gain importance and possibly include it in textbook materials, at least some of what he was collecting, from that period of Serbian statehood. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69007	Thank you, Professor. The word has a minister, Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69008	Thank you very much. Dear Professor, I join your initiative and with the president of SANU, Mr. Kostic I will discuss this, because I know that they also mark the years of all Serbian giants, I am often present when the markings were also Mikhail Petrovic Alas, Jovan Cvijic and other giants, so I think this is completely relevant, and I think it can, that the initiative can be called both by a certain institution and named after this great one. So we can include people in the local environment, if it were really together with them, I wouldn't want to impose it on them, and we don't even have a right. When it comes to project representation, you know that the law has been changed, that we have passed the Science Fund Act and that everything goes through the Fund Act. And the calls to the diaspora, there are and that's one of the essential components, which are now assumed. These days there's a call for a diaspora, because there was a call for artificial intelligence a new year ago and he went to the promo in June for young researchers. So, we have certain resources so that there won't be a suspension of funding. We can talk about it and you'll get back to our sector, see what real projects are, because there would be a vacuum once, because new laws give many and better benefits. There were a lot of questions before, precisely why only scientific and research organisations, which are registered that way. So there's room to talk about it. The problem with textbooks is, in my opinion, the biggest problem of school directors, because they choose one publisher and why choose the most unfavourable one? I've been going back to that story since the day before yesterday, one parent's advice, one school can be manipulated and about excursions, and about these things, because why in two schools, which says neighbouring or in two nearby municipalities in Belgrade, you can easily have street parts of two municipalities, you have agencies to agree on and then manipulate public procurement, if you take and analyze what participates in the price, plus security and everything else that actually has to be in the first place, you come to the agencies agree with who? Well, they're not with the minister, I guess, with the school minister. We'll get suspicion there, go into inspection and punish and replace. We've created a new concept and we're working with the agencies. Indeed, when we get, but from the advice of parents, they pay for it, I don't know why they accept such a thing? Why does one institution have a publisher and suddenly change the whole publisher and all the more expensive? It tells me someone has an interest. There's a lot of conditions, I can't know directly, I know indirectly. That's why we have inspections at the bar, I guess we should know from them. We have school administrations. So, like old custom, everything only goes directly to the minister. I am very willing to take all measures towards the individuals who are doing this. The other day there was an attempt in Pazova despite the fact that it was an AP Vojvodina, and what should be included in the circuit inspection around some machines that are too expensive and children offer, and why are they fighting? And the team at school gave the machine with energy potions. Well, ideal. So he drinks two drinks and here they are on vacation full of strength to see who's stronger. What's also important, through ISP and through data protection, means everything is in Serbia, Telecom has taken over because the entire job of the diary has started as a donation of the company "Samsung" and as such... was at the Karnet company which was also a donation from Zagreb. The Tesla company that was founded here is a co-operant of Telecom, so the whole job is done with Telecom and it's only security in Serbia. If they haven't turned off some of these databases still for the log, but the log is just a very small part and superficial, the database is in the file system.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69009	Thank you, Your Honor. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69010	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, you're absolutely right. One part of the professor hasn't been informed. It's true that we have a science fund, and that's the first time you've set it up, so we're clear. Gentlemen, there is no more money through scientific societies. That's where the funds went, the money was being stolen, I don't have a problem saying that, if you want a name, take it off the agenda. As far as the diaspora is concerned, you're ministers, you did it, and our part of the scientists is involved. The question is, aren't they moving our homework without informing them? Here's an example. In Montenegro, we have an institute, and the magazine is Serbian on our list, which is funded, but what are they doing now? A fellow scientist goes to Montenegro to the University of Down and raises a lot of money, and he won't be without money in the newsroom of our magazine. Well, you see, there are those of us who want no dinars. While my colleague is raising three times the salary from Belgrade than he is in Belgrade, I am covering down there with no dinars. He can't take it anymore, gentlemen. They have conditions. We'll fund our diaspora, there's no problem and you're doing it well, it started well, but I can't steal money on the name of the diaspora anymore, individuals here inside. Take it off the agenda, you've been doing it for 17 years. Do you want me to speak names individually? I know that I am now being listened to by my fellow professors and watching, honor to the academic majority of communities who are doing it with honor, but one psychologist who has deeply charged it in millions and brought evil into education and education and now Minister Sarcevic for all 28 years for not doing so overnight to reverse it. He can't take it anymore! He can't, gentlemen! Take it off, Mr. Trebišanin and you from that agenda, so that I don't speak yet, and you, Mr. Korać, who should sit here, and you go to Montenegro every day and charge huge money, and you also notice here as MPs. Shame on you. Look, I don't have a problem telling you, that's why he's never here, and here he is, barking, to apologize, all over the press. You want me to count more? You all know that, and now we want society to... No, we have facilities. We don't have any problems with our people, our doctors. Why don't we give the terms and criteria without the dinars in our diaspora? No, you won't. You all want money and you don't earn it, but then I'm the reviewer, so I'm not gonna let go of the best work on purpose. Well, he can't do that anymore. We're going on Thompson's list, so how do we do? We're not going there. That's why we're raising money from the project in college. Instead of investing in ourselves, we put it in our pocket. He can't do it anymore. There's no more of that. This minister interrupted it, and it can't be anymore. You see, that's why we who worked and blacked out today in science institutions. You'll count them all. One of them the greatest Serb was a professor. You were watching the other day. He apologized for calling Slobodan Milosevic. He has many to apologize to, and Kostunica, whatever I think, and most to Alexander the Wolf. You'll see the time will come to apologize, but he advocated the bombing in 1990. They're doing their biographies. He can't, gentlemen, history can't forgive you or me or anyone else. In the end, I felt very well, sir, on my skin, Minister, 27 years old. I'll tell you now. I was so pressurized that I published my sources. I had to name my colleagues. They took a million dinars, and I avoided it. No money. The state financed. Let them be ashamed, now let me tell them. My hair is rising. They're Serbs, they're lezilebovics, hohstuplers. They're destroying our children and students. He can't take it anymore. The honor of most of the academic community, it works very well, it works properly and so on, and these individuals who were terrified, I don't have a problem telling them. Well, Djelic took 11 million when he was Minister of Science only from the Ministry of Science without saying what the Meridian Bank said. Here, he was Minister Jovanovic, so let him say if it's true or not. He can't take it anymore. We're not going on the Thompson list, so she's coming back, so she's working, so a year or two. It's not going easy. I'm not good for you, you are good for me, for God's sake, and none of them have entered the facility. He took it here for textbooks, wrote Jasenovac what he was, turned to another government the other day, at the third, and here's an expert. They're destroying our children, students. It's easy to bring down students. It's hard to fight for everyone. That's our job, Professor. We have to be pedagogues. Not everyone's a pedagogue. Take down, knock down a student can anyone, that's the easiest, but we as professors need to get him to know what the minister says. I have more to tell you, colleagues. Before Minister Sarčević, he knows very well what teaching is. It has a material task, functional and educational. They destroyed educational and functional thinking. Mr. Minister, is that correct? You return that part and now we give resistance because they steal money, one piece, and you can't do it anymore. He can't. Take it off, gentlemen. One part that you've been doing for 20 years. One of them answered me, he's been working 17 years, but he can't do it anymore, even if he's got his chest in his chest. You can't do that anymore. When you see, what always turns the same thing? And then he says, "I'm an expert." You know what kind of experts? Well, go to scientific institutions, always the same number of people moving, to name them from my waist, on my fingers. Now he comes to me yesterday, so he's reviewing my history. Of course, he audited because he was a Serb back four years, and now he's the world's largest liberal, against the Serbs for the sake of it. The same person and textbooks wrote, and no one could, for the best man was this brother to him. He can't do that anymore. He can't do it anymore. There are decent people who will work without the dinars and who have worked, and then what about Jasenovac to write and what England... Sources have been released for Srebrenica. Hey, gentlemen of the Parliament, you know how many foreign sources there are? I counted them, 60 who claim it. Why don't teachers say so? Well, they won't, because they're taking money, because I'm supposed to go to Montenegro, raise three times as much money, and the doctor's a senior. He can't do that anymore. Take it off. There are criteria. We'll stick to the criteria and the game. I want to run a game here with teachers as a politician, and as a scientist in scientific journals under the same conditions, and not one psychologist, he's a dad-mate... What the hell? Well, when you see... And we're not going on Thompson's list, and now there's a part... 37 professors in one department don't have any work, and I've been told that I have two right on Thompson and I have 200 other ones, but those two are more worth than those 37 that have zero. It doesn't go easy. You go back, you do it, you do it, and then you do the blind consensator. It's not working. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the students, I address you, call every professor who doesn't hold a pedagogical Usus. It's for nothing that we call some. You'll never get against them students, because students know how teachers are. You need to motivate yourself, fight for them. It's not an easy functional task. This minister knows what I'm talking about. It's not easy. Educational is not easy, nor material, etc. No, we kicked out in 2000, come on off the street. I have to say this, Mr. Minister. Before you one was on the project a man with middle gear. His profession was a walker. He walked around Belgrade for four years. No one was allowed to mention him, and our children got this kind of revenge. Shame on them! They're not teachers. You should love your job, just as you loved and endured. I don't want to say any more things, 'cause my colleagues are listening to me right now. On the other one I've dedicated to one man, it's my business, I could've been a dead mother or a father, and it's my personal business. As of tomorrow, he says, you don't work in a third-rate relationship. Thank you. You can go to my mother's school, I know what they don't know. I know how to build, and they don't know how to build. I know science, they don't know that. The time has come for quality... Whoever can, the game's on. The train's on its way. Whoever gets on the train, let him go, and whoever doesn't, he'll stay. We don't think the same, we don't do the same. Well, do you know when these guys used to come here? I'll tell you. Not now, the boycott, but never come. When three minutes to speak, they ran from the opposition. I can't let them sit here. They just don't have a habit, let alone work. That system is over. The game, the train is on its way. The seminar works, I have, I don't, and especially you, fellow professors, who are close to politics, so they can't come up with you. You can be Nikola Tesla, he'll look for all ways to destroy you. You see, whoever stood up was looking for ways to get their revenge on them. He can't do it anymore. It's broken. I know there's more, but in a few years, it's over. It's a scoreboard. Did I win the game? I didn't win and that's it. I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm Where's that? Only I can be anyone else. And the other experts? The works are quoted, the world's experts, and here they won't do domestics, both east and west, and they're raising money here. Well done, Minister. You said right, what amateurs do without the dinars. There are people who love their jobs, who love kids and students. That's what we're supposed to do. I'm sorry, I'm a little emotional when I saw what they were doing in life, what individuals were... There's a movie to be made about individuals doing what they did just to survive and to be worth it. The game's started, the criteria are known. Let's go. You want to go into politics, gentlemen? Go to politics. Here, "One of the Five Million" said it was a political party. Go on, what are you afraid of? So we'll compete, and in science we have magazines international. Let's not do each other. It's been a while. You have full support, Mr. Minister. You're on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69011	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69012	Since we have somehow transferred the discussion to higher education, not to take up much time for the debate on amendments, I have simply remained in the debt of MPs both to Serbia and to Marijan, and to some extent to you. It's about funding higher education. We have an unfortunate formulation that it happens through regulations and that those regulations have eaten themselves a lot and have real trouble and then DRI for three, four years, I think this was the fourth year in a row, sitting and controlling higher education. Of course, there's guilt around here, somewhere self-involved, but somewhere in the real state of things, someone gets more money than they need. And that's true. I was recently at the KONUS meeting of Belgrade, so the University of Serbia and we talked about it a new year ago and we agreed, we created a joint working group consisting of representatives of the National Council for High, KONUS, the ministry and that group had already done their job, which is that the adjustments were made for the previous year, so it was threaded, one number of institutions returned the extra money, so it was redeployed to the other. We had to rebuild some kind of construction for this year 2020, because even in 2015 it was even more complicated by some addition to that regulation. So, if a new and a newer regulation were to be adopted every year, it would be getting more and more scrawny. The problem is that it is funded by the student and that by kidnapping students and state and private universities competed not in quality, but in students. So many, I would take a lot of time to list what's all the negative consequence of it, but we're all finally aware of that. Then when I talked about co-operation the other day, it really exists, and when we talk about professional issues, I can't say for any college of any university in Serbia, they didn't even personally realize that it was a hack on them, but that it was an opportunity to deal with the offices, from the guarantees and what you say, Professor, for the sake of the students' interest. He can't stay unlisted for a moment or in some problem. What was good and what we started more than a year ago and it stood, it began, has now matured awareness that the law must be passed, the Law on the financing of higher education and that the regulations are incomplete documents. I just want to take this opportunity to get to know the public, Parliament, again with the same methodologies, so the National Council for High, the representatives of the university, the ministry, we have a big team with two sub-topics and a model of funding in both professional and academic. There are certain differences, of course, we expect that they'll rely on the economy somewhere professionally, but also to change the model that it's not an individual. If we go back, for a time, it was, you know, an agenda to fund the head of the population in the university. That would lead to total chaos, and it's a good thing we didn't do it, but it's a group, a department, whatever it is. For the small environments, when Milia talked, it means that everyone would run away, no one would work in those towns where there are few students, because the salary would be proportional to the number of students. But in high school, we took a model group. It's not the same group in legal, molecular biology, and that's specific, and we'll express it through certain formulas in 2021, God of Health, someone here will defend this law after the election, he'll be ready for public debates and everything else. But what I'm saying is that the academic community with full capacity participates in this business, because we all realized that this is the inevitable thing to do once, because it's always causing even more self-awareness, and even those people who, in order not to get into trouble, share scholarships, find a way to get rid of extra money. There's some kind of, not to say, a case of solidarity, but some fund that exists at universities, but it's not well used enough. I think it's been a long time, and that's exactly what it's been working on. I think we'll be in public debates about this law very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69013	Thank you, Mr. Charcévich. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69014	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and fellow MPs, first of all, to thank you for starting this initiative at all, because the Committee on Budgets, Finance and the control of the spending of public funds spoke completely, together with the DRI, about the financing model of higher education institutions. Since we now have these own resources and these budgets, simply, we have seen that there is no detailed control of our own resources and because of this lack of control of these own funds, we have a problem, in fact, that we have a picture of how much real funds are spent on behalf of the university and on the cost of collecting tuition on the head of a enrolled student, then we have a problem on the understanding that you have today the case that, let's say, the Belgrade recession requires a lot more funding from the budget because it is estimated that it will not have enough own resources to function. To that end, I think your proposal has been fully established, for what you've just said, but I think that in this public debate on such a bill, it really needs to open up a broad debate and let many target groups say what they have, because in the past we've had completely unimaginable things, which is: that, let's say, colleges are looking for larger funds from the budget, and that their deans and rectors have abnormal assets after their terms of office for four or five years, that, for example, nobody's even dealt with property or conflict of interest when it comes to decans and university rectors, because no one should have touched that area. You know, it is a much greater sin when you're going to tear down institutions based on the fact that you're unfoundedly attacking the people who run those institutions. And why unfounded? Because we didn't have mechanisms to control you. But if you have your own funds and you know that they are 100 dinars and that 100 dinars have been spent on certain needs of the university, not for the needs of certain and imaginary projects, what Professor Atlagic was saying, where those projects were exclusively spent by teachers who ran those colleges, or who have a certain function of the officials, the manager of that institution, then you do not have a real picture of how money is spent in general by Serbian citizens, because the budget spends money on the basis of it – tuition, times, number of students enrolled, and your own funds that, let's say, we have no information at all how much they are, are spent for some other purposes and some other purposes. Then there was an open opportunity for each dean to say that, let's say, there was not enough funds to fix, to make certain repairs for the maintenance of a certain institution for its facilities, but rather to ask for additional funding from the budget, mostly from TBR, from the current budget reserve, when, for example, the leak of the roof or when it wants to do what it has to do with its own resources, because the funds that come from income based on its own funds on the market are spent for some other purposes, for marketing activities, for promotion, for participation in certain projects, together with the economy or for participation through some international projects. No one here says it's bad, but let's put order in place, know every penny is spent, since it's in the interest of every student to know what funds his university has, that means, because when they go to other colleges, with other students, not only in the country, and abroad, they can be praised, to say, firstly, how many students are enrolled, which is the economic power of each university and how that college has a certain reference to the work itself. Secondly, the relationship between the colleges themselves is completely different, because no one trusts anyone when you don't know what funds the deans or the financials are in charge of. Then a completely bad atmosphere is created within the colleges themselves. You saw, you had an example of Professor Radjenović, who was simply a professor with the highest references when it came to quoting at the Shanghai University List who took us down for more than 100 places, because he could no longer work, for example, at the Faculty of Engineering, but moved to work for a university located and is a reference institution in the United Arab Emirates. If it hadn't been for you and President Vukic, who called on the professor to go back to where he was still working, to find ways in which and how to continue to pay teachers who did not extend their mandate to be emeritus professors, we really wouldn't be able to say that certain scientific institutions are coming back to reach those references they had. So it's important that we talk about this in a completely constructive way. Every policy intrusion model, manipulation, what we had the opportunity to see from Belgrade University's rector, that on the day we discuss the budget here, which requested additional funding for Belgrade University, because it lacked enough of its own resources and that it led the commission to say that, I don't know, the propagate of the finance minister shows an attempt to do so by any dean, any rector in the future, to deal with politics in the most terrestrial way possible. That's why we can't let that happen. We should talk about how in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, all students and the future of Serbia, means children who are scheduled to take all the leading positions here in the country, to know what their own resources are, how much budget resources are, how many parents should single out for their children who are educated and that ultimately transparency in spending these funds should exist for each dean, for each professor at the university. I think that it is beneficial for all of us and therefore this initiative that you have launched to pass a new law on funding, the way of funding higher education institutions, I think it is in the interest of all of us and that we all need to take an active part in these debates, no matter what happens in a year, as a proposal and draft law, because there will be a lot to talk about and I think that it will really benefit all Serbian citizens. I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Aleksandar Vukic recognized the need for such topics, which were pushed under the carpet, today to become a daily story that brings only the benefit of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we congratulate you. It may not have been an easy job for you in this term and in the future in general, for anyone who participates in Serbia's political life, but we need to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69015	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69016	I'm sorry, but since the subject is such that we can't leave it unfinished. It is a very important subject, and of course we are not running away from this topic, but it is my assessment that it must be done with great confidence. I think a year and more needed to establish that trust, because anyone who's got some money first thinks what someone would take me for, what I would do for another. So, this healthy logic has led to the fact that we have come very gradually and slowly to apply two institutes in the Law of the High that have not yet been brought to life. One of these days, she's coming to life, and I can tell you that I'm very happy. It's a real game that will invite serious, good people, famous in their job at the Faculty's Board of Employers. I can tell you that's a really good story right now. He pulled the leg of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, so in turn I asked some people from the economy, and wherever they were called high-ranking people, that's it. The rest is the manager. This is what you're right about, Alexandra, when you say that they sometimes don't even know what they have from property. Belgrade is one of the richest. There's a restitution, and there's a lot of the legislation left behind, but it's a pro-determined or a finance projector I don't believe it can see in that way as someone who professionally, as a manager, can make money. Six people are employed more in a system that needs to bring a lot more savings and money. We've come to what he's supposed to do, so he's not worried about anyone spying on us again. They forgot that we were a year ago... He finished the work of HERE team and was a young professor at the Dragan Lončar Faculty of Economics, president of the HERE team, and they laid the first foundation of the strategy for high and it is developing in that direction. We went gradually. For the first time, it says that at the centre of the Strategy is a student, that what we have all spoken together these days to provide more, highly educated people with easy studies, cheap studies, free studies, more scholarships. If we're all looking at our own income, and he's 90 percent more than the tuition, then we didn't do anything. You know? How to settle all these things so people can stay convinced they have money, but now the other thing is how they spend it. That DRI control wasn't done for nothing. However, all DRI reports were easily understood, very easily understood. For the first time since we focused finance and finance sectors in the ministry itself, we have received good resources. A new year ago, we literally forced... Over 560 million were returned and we re-distributed with them. So it was finally taken seriously that the employer... He was in a position to get money from any association, organization, there's no need to show how he spends it. We've been through this Rubicon at the Ministry, and now no one can work like that and there's no dilemma. Consciousness has matured. This has been going on for over a year. I've been tripped several times, so I've been standing, changing ways, etc., but I think this is in the right direction now. He's taking part in several former rectors from all periods, from all authorities. So, people who have nothing to do with this or that policy and this time they're gathered around the profession. I think I'm going to have my professional model done real quick, because we've been more professional in reform and it's kind of moving faster. Academicly, too, the whole concept has been captured and it remains to express through formulas how large the group is and where incomes are obtained from every higher school facility. Some seem to be able to gain more and others less. What's the social interest? I just said it was very important. What are we going to get from the enrollment quota? It's a shame that for three years we have a much bigger offer than we can even have students, and then there's a game between state and private. As you've seen, we can take shifts. I mentioned the day before yesterday that two rectors had been replaced in my term of office. No one's nailed it. There's no law broken. So, in many places, we were able to intervene where the law breaks and we didn't go to the bottom. Let's go, so, gradually, it's matured and I think that just like that, gradually, with the general public, we're going to come to a final solution that needs to be long-term.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69017	Thank you, Mr. Charcévich. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69018	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I haven't had a chance to speak in principle on this subject. Through the amendment debate, I'm going to try to point out, in my opinion, some important questions, which were a little bit of a talk here. Frequent interventions in this area, in terms of changes and addition, the SRS sees as an attempt to prepare a serious and fundamental reform of the Serbian educational process. Mr. Minister, the other day, in a discussion with my colleagues, you presented a finding that was absolutely accurate, and since we were generationally close, which is that when you and I were students, the quality of education was far better. Here I have to mention things, such as violence against peers, slapping teachers, and it's part of our reality as part of verbal and physical violence. The idea of hiring a school cop hasn't produced adequate results, and even if he's engaged in two schools, so by the time he gets to one another, it's obvious our kids aren't safe. One of the biggest problems of our school population is drugs and all kinds of addictions. I suggested that the facilities, the type of coffee shop, the bookshop, the casino, I couldn't be near the school less than 500 meters away, and as I would be totally banned from the casino myself. I'll give you the data from one doctoral dissertation, and when there are 1,200 subjects on the sample, under 18 students, 18% tried or used some drugs, 6% of them still enjoy it, while 2% of them are addicts. These are very alarming data. I have one more question to ask, which is the responsibility of the state and the school for the Cyrillic issue. It's Serbian, and it's more and more Latin. If something is soaked with Latin, it's reflected in the public sphere. Cyrillic is a written form of Serbian language and the state must preserve it as an identity value. In the end, since I'm a little out of time, the system can only be a system when it doesn't make unwarranted concessions. Otherwise it weakens its position and reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69019	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69020	Just for the sake of clarity. When it comes to Cyrillic, gentlemen, Cyrillic is a Serbian national letter and there is no dilemma. Latin is not Croatian. It is as Serbian as it is Croatian, because both Croats and Serbs by the 10th century wrote a Cyrillic letter, whether it's an ancient Slovenian Cyrillic or a verb, it's another thing now. The Latin letter is different. Mr. Minister, speaking of this Latin, you're absolutely right. At the university, one in Belgrade, where three students speak Latin. And, what you said, you have to take care of that group, because no one's going to enter it, and go into the Dubrovnik Archives and try to study the Latin charters for the Serbian history of the Middle Ages, there's no way there's no chance. Who's going in there? There's no theoretical way he's going in if there's no Latin. Secondly, can you imagine a professor of history without knowing Latin, as well as an ancient Slovenian language, as well as an old Slovenian Cyrillic Charter and a Latin Charter? Speaking of charters, someone mentioned, one of the fellow professors, can't anymore, I tell you, I wish my colleague Ševarlic was here, when he mentioned the charter, one of our professors, Belgrade's, wonderful professor, Tomislav Jovanovic published the charter, and then projects are reported to rewrite what he published and raise money on projects. He can't take it anymore. So, everything has its own, and I totally agree with you, Mr. Boyic, it's official for Cyrillic to be used, and in private life, that's another thing. It would be good to have each other, but officially, to know what a Serbian national letter is, and so is the language. So, really, as far as the legislator is concerned, I think it's done correctly. So, until the 10th century there was only one ancient Slovenian language in the southern Slovenians and Croats spoke that ancient Slovenian language, and they also know very well Croatians and Serbs - King Tomislav 1925 and 1928 respectively, there are church assemblies, where they differ. The Croats are taking someone else's letter, please, fellow MPs, then the Croats took someone else's letter, and it's not theirs, it's as Serbian as it is Croatian, and the Serbs kept, part two, let's say the Serbs and the Slovenes, kept their letter. Science says so, but in official use there's no dilemma, never, ask my students, I didn't use the Latin in college, and in the private afternoon it's my business. It's good to use each other, because you can't do that... As far as the charter is concerned, not only Latin, we have six students here at the university, it has to be run about financing, but it's unimaginable that also Slovenian paleography, Slovenian charter, a small number of students we have, something in Philology and then the professors fought for students, let them go, you're right ministers, then they let as many students, more money, because it was a system of funding, as you said, a student. Now, that should lead to one normal thing, and I think fellow professors know that very well and that it will all come to their own level. Speaking of this part of higher education, I was right, Mr. Minister, when I said "1 out of 5 million" that it was a political organisation. So that's what I've been saying from the beginning and I'm saying now and let him go outside of college. Mr. Minister, I'm a member of the SNS never seen me in college that I brought my SNS badge to college, so Toskovic Oliver can't come to my and his college in Kosovo Mitrovica and carry "1 out of 5 million". What if I came to the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade and wore a SNS badge? Well, he can't do that anymore. Gentlemen, go to politics, science is here. No, hide behind each other. Now, you see, a respected professor who is an academic, a fugitive, when the bombing was now a salty mind, but can no longer be Mr. Academyman, by his signature, no matter how many times you've been an academic, to destroy and to condition someone. The honor of academics, most of them, 90%, but there's one part, as well as among professors, etc. Who watch other things. I repeat once again, Mr. Minister, thank you for the Serbian Academy of Sciences, because this power has just put on the financing of SANU, the predecessors have left it without money. And yesterday I said and today I repeat, I know you'll do it to take care of the history archive of SANU, because they don't have documents where to put more. It hasn't been done in decades. I know you can't spend the night, but I think you have a co-operation with the academic community that's extremely well-established. What individuals don't want, that's what we'll call them here. We don't have any problems. It's important to us that most of us accept that we go together where we set our goals for the next 20 years and you're absolutely right. You have the full support of the academic community, professors and students of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69021	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word first comes from Minister Mladen Sarcevic, then Prof. Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69022	One sentence. When you mentioned SANU, of course, we also made a protocol and now the project is to make six million euros to arrange the building. It's just the archives and the buildings and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69023	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Professor Dubravko Bojic has a word. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69024	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic for giving me a chance to complete my thought. As a professor of Russian language and literature, I am well - known to history and creation and origin both our both Russian and Cyrillic, etc. Here I'd like to add something else that I haven't been able to fit into that time frame. I would say a few words about corruption in higher education regardless of what is not strictly high education here as a topic and without explicit individualization it is publicly said that individual exams in individual professors at individual universities have their own price list. I don't want to play or ask the minister to be a public prosecutor or anything. But this is something that's a big problem. I'd like to say a few words about plagiarisms. The principle of academic integrity should be based on the independent creation of scientific works and respect for other people's copyrights, since this topic is particularly relevant in the time that was very much updated right in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69025	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. I apologize to my colleague Nikola Saviæ. By mistake, I skipped his amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69026	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, this member of the law, in which I have submitted the amendment, speak the way in which you keep records of professional training, career advancement, professional examinations, service movements and all other things that are related to this. This member of the law is inaccurate, so I asked the amendment to define it a little better. In fact, we all know that there is no process of education without those people who, without auxiliary staff, without technical staff, not only in the process of education, are not only those who are direct educators of education, but also others as logistics and teaching and extracurricular staff. The way this is specified in the law is understood and it could be understood that the expert exam should be passed by both cleaners and janitors and lodgers where schools have not yet moved to the central heating system, although fortunately, less and less of such schools, and I have therefore asked the amendment to simply separate it, that special records be kept on teaching staff because this is what is most important, and other records, especially on non-teaching staff who are also equally important for the education process. Here's a reminder now from my colleague Boyic. He was talking about corruption in education. Unfortunately, we all know there's corruption in education and there's been corruption before, there's corruption now and there's a being and it's a process to fight for. Perhaps, Minister, one thought and one recommendation to you to think, to make some ethical committee or how, he doesn't have to be in shape to have executive powers to make decisions, but simply to ask questions, to see which teachers are unworthy of their call and then to recommend to you or to another body, to the ministry, to committees and to respond. I don't think that would be a bad thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69027	The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Alexandra Tomic, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69028	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs. On this amendment adopted by the government, I think we should pay special attention because it is actually an integral part of the education policy that is fully raised to a higher level. Why? Because the education system itself means primary and secondary school students, of course, and students, but it also involves objects and what is called equipment, but to make it easier for children who attend schools that is the essence of a policy that is very concerned with the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order for our children to get the best possible way of getting all the knowledge that children acquire in developed countries. This section relating to the amendment of Professor Aleksandr Martinovic, who the government has accepted, refers to the functioning of the education system itself. What he's telling us. He speaks of the transport of secondary school students themselves who have enrolled and defined themselves for dual education the mode of operation, i.e. transport from house to school, which is more than four kilometers away, to be financed by local self-government itself. That local self-government must find financial means to pay transportation to children who have defined themselves for this kind of education. We thus support these children, in addition to enrolling the best and most modern model of learning, with the goal of being an integral part of the best companies that open new jobs here, in the education system itself simply not only receiving 70%, it is a minimum personal income obligation that this company gives to its employees, it will also have the possibility of free transportation that is longer than four kilometers when we talk about distances between the place where they live and the places where they will attend their schools. Local self-government here should make a full contribution. We've legally committed them here. I think it's one of the very good indicators and in the end, the enrollment in the first year of dual education this year is 2,600 students, which shows essentially that Serbia recognized this model that should go to the future when it comes to education. Because the possibility of getting a job is at a very high rate, and that is why when we talk about the very economy that is developing, it will be a function of reaching high growth rates, for which we are all fighting here because it is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia and because of better salaries for people who work both in the private and public sectors and for pensioners whose pensions will be growing bigger and bigger, not only in relation to the Swiss model, but also what we are talking about is investing in the future in the knowledge of these young people. That is why this amendment shows that we have made a major step in the development of the education system and I think we should talk about it and thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for recognising that this proposal is to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69029	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Here you go, Mr. Ljubenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69030	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS Parliamentary Group tabled this amendment to the Amendment Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System and we have proposed amending Article 21. The proposer of these amendments proposed an amendment to Article 189 of the Law, which is currently in force, by adding Article 2 to this article, which defines that criteria for establishing the economic price of the education and education programme as set out in point 1 of Article 1 of this Article should be adopted by the Minister. For the sake of clarifications, point 1 of point 1 applies to the provision in the budget of the unit of local self-government of funds for the achievement of the activity of pre-school education and education, half-day stay, diet, care, prevention, the protection of pre-school children up to 80% of the economic price per child, including in whole and income, fees and other incomes in full contribution to the burden of employers and severance, as well as assistance to pre-school staff and expenditure for the implementation of the pre-school programme, except for those for which funds are provided from the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and other current expenditure. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing this amendment to bring the terms and criteria closer to the ministry, not the minister. That's our position we insist on even when we pass all the laws. Given that it is a matter of and how important an area relating to preschool children, we believe that this law must be written precisely, without any ambiguity and any failures. It must not be allowed in the event of any prevention of the minister, that such an important area should be left without a sublegal act to be regulated. Therefore, the acceptance of amendments by the SRS parliamentary group would be of multiple benefit, as the ministry is a body that is above each individual, hence and above the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69031	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69032	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the SRS refers to Article 23 of this Bill and we know that education is nothing but short-term results and that education is a strategic category. The state should make a serious education strategy and then not have such frequent interventions through changes and additions to existing laws in this area. One of the questions that arise here is whether the school remains a key institution on its way to individual success and material achievement? Is he present at all levels of education? What about professional teacher training programs, which are usually seminars? Why aren't they here anymore? Is the state responsible for why it is ignored, as we have heard on many occasions, Cyrillic? Then, in terms of wages, teachers and the Ministry often tighten the thread, which we all saw several times every September 1st, i.e. When does the new school year start? Here I would also ask the question of Serbia's relationship with the European dimension in education, are there greater similarities or differences? What's the state of the country schools? A bologna and a dual education? As we have transplanted Europe, the challenges of school in the future. Someone should be happy about these questions, which means they'll be on the verge of looking for answers. All in all, education is the breadth of every society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69033	Thank you. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69034	With this amendment, we have pointed to a formal deficit, namely the position of the SRS, that ministers cannot be the bearers of such significant affairs, but must be the ministry. In particular, there is an even more serious problem in this case. You here predict that sublegal acts for the application of this law will be passed within a year and this is truly unserious. So you're not ready to apply what you've been talking about here for a few days. That's the principle, you get a warrant somewhere to do something, hurry up to propose it to the National Assembly, here your majority adopt it, and you actually pass laws that, for one reason or another, cannot be applied. When it comes to this law, we draw attention and we talked more about the basics of the education and education system being something that is not well regulated in this period of our society. We expect, Minister, that there will be some better law, some law that will truly restore the true role of education to schools, among students, who will restore dignity to the profession of teachers. Unfortunately, it all comes down to whether at the beginning of the school year some schools will strike or not, whether teachers will seek and receive a raise or not, and the essence is not that. And to talk to teachers, you'll see that the essence isn't just how much they pay. Of course, it is, but the point is that teachers want to return dignity to teachers, that they be on their own in the classroom, that the teacher doesn't have to be afraid to enter the classroom because some of them are going to boast the student to attack him, or some kind of blatant parent will come and make a mess, threaten, etc. The right, the former way of grading, the relationship between teachers and students must be restored. The basic prerequisite for that, we told you about it when this law was on the agenda, is these parenting advice, which is completely illogical that we legally allowed five-six parents to be head of school in every sense of that word. Neither these people have expertise, nor experience, nor can they deal with such serious affairs as this law has given them. So when talking and thinking about a new law, then this should be something that needs to be seriously thought about and what needs to be completely different.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69035	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 26th amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69036	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will certainly adopt these changes, but when we talk about education and education, let's see what teachers need to educate and raise our young students. Is that what Danica Popovic should do? What an example Danica Popovic can give to her students who, apart from being profitable to her, no other example can give. I don't know where the teacher comes from, regardless of the salary between 200 and 300,000 dinars, where she gets her income, so she needs to keep an eye on the incomes and expenses, where did she suddenly pay 365 thousand Swiss francs to pay for her apartment? What's it like to be a professor to someone, and to be involved in politics at university and college, how's it cost somebody a lot, and someone's not? How are our best professors almost poor, and how have some who have celebrated themselves with yellow politics profited in this way? As far as I know, except she prescribes textbooks from her late colleagues and gets money for it, she doesn't have any additional qualifications to confirm 365 thousand Swiss francs to her. Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Orlic, our assets are carefully combed. It's combing and I don't know, 10, 20, 30,000 dinars a month, it's being carefully combed. But, look at the wonders, Danica Popovic can't be touched. It's some kind of yellow sanctity and no one can discuss it. She can uninterruptedly prescribe the textbooks of her colleagues, take a million or two dinars for it, and prescribe the deceased colleagues, who say - when the deceased won't object. What kind of training should they give? What example does Jovo Bakic need to give? That's the man who promised to chase us down the streets. I guess that qualified him to be some factor in education and education? And what can students learn from him, when he says "Max" to Luburic, he'll let us go to Savam and Dunav. Who will deal with it, Mr. Minister, the kind of professor that the Anti-Corruption Agency has no control over, even though they receive salaries from the same register from where we, who are subject to that control, receive the same pay as yourself? Who's going to question all this and how much of that money goes away? Who's going to question this rector, Brazilian? Who's going to question her? Political activist, the future holder of the list "One of Five Million", a lady who, with students studying for 12-13 years, raises the uprising against the finance minister, who, behold, gives her 815 million more for the university, 8% more in 2020 than in 2019. And her income drops, while she's running, by 1.3 billion. A failed rector decided to punish a successful minister for not expecting 8%? I guess she was expecting, while she lost 15%, to get her 150%, and then she decided to punish him and take his calling away. She can take all of you away from calling like that. However, knowledge cannot. But she herself, I'd love to see how much she knows, except she knows how to raise a political uprising at university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69037	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on secondary education and training. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Natas Spasoja Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic, Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić, Dubravko Bojic and Marijan Rističević. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the amendment of one member of the law, it's about Article 1, i.e. the position of Article 2 of Article 30 of the basic law, which has caused great doubt, and I can say some and disdain for those who are affected, above all by the director of schools and performers themselves. It is a subject - Practical teaching and professional practice, which is performed combined, partly by the employer and partly at school. That's why I intervened with the amendment in this article, because we think that too little percentage is given that part of professional practice and the practical teaching that is being done with the employer. I asked the amendment to be about 50% there and 50% here, not as the legislator predicted. This specifically refers to specific professions, and we have many of these specific professions, because schools are not in a position to provide adequate conditions for performing this course to a large part of these specific professions, while individual employers can do so. I simply don't think it's absolutely useful, it's not necessary, it's not meaningful, it's limited to the extent that it's prescribed by law here, because the employer is often able to provide much better conditions. We heard from the minister that schools will be much more equipped, etc. Let's just take his word for it. But the situation is now such that a good part and a large part of practical teaching and professional practice still have to be done with the employer. It even benefits the students themselves, for it is common for all those who have proved to be good, pedantic, in the employer, at the end of schooling, to offer them and a job, i.e. to start a work relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69039	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. After the amendment, Milosav Milojevic reported. Here you go, colleague Miloevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69040	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1. The draft law is a completely amended Article 30. The law on secondary education and education. It is very important to highlight the need to change the member mentioned because parts of the law relating to secondary vocational education also apply the provisions of the Law on dual education. Amendments to Article 30. The law more clearly regulates the possibility of employer participation, and it is prescribed that practical teaching and professional practice are realised at school, in the employer or combined, in part in school, and in part with the employer, in accordance with the plan and programme of teaching and learning. Practical teaching is, in fact, combined with the employer, and part of the school, can be realised in terms of 25% of a specific employer, which is a valid contract. Also, the rights to obtain educated profiles are equated, regardless of whether the person has completed the specialisation process under the classical or dual education system. What is fundamentally important in the changes mentioned is that there is a clear vision for increasingly regulatory and creating the possibility of profiling people to acquire certain qualifications. In general, there is an extraordinary need for young people to rightly focus and get the opportunity to build a better future for themselves. There is a clear need for certain working profiles in times of accelerated modernisation, economic development and living standards as a result of responsible policy by President Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The new law takes a bigger chance for everyone, gives open space for perfecting and provides an idea of where and how to go. The funds provided in co-operation with the Ministry of Economy and other ministries have led to the launch of the largest school, kindergarten and sports facilities in the municipality of Arangelovac over the last two years. For these projects alone, the government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government provided more than 2m euros. Also, we can say that investment in the travel infrastructure of the Arangelovec is at the highest level in the last few decades. Systemic work and above all excellent co-operation between local companies in Arangelovac are at a historic maximum of the production and export of their products. A positive economic climate and the creation of conditions in which our country is recognised as a favourable place for investment and business has led to accelerated development. In this way, the president of the Republic of Serbia and the government showed real, real, real concern for all citizens and citizens. With the parallel development of all the structures of society, we have achieved a significant improvement in the conditions in all social flows and this has led to the need for closer integration of the education system and economy. We hope that the years that are coming will further improve the system and raise the level of standards of all people in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69041	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69042	Mr. Minister, you should have accepted this amendment that we have submitted, if you can follow, for the reasons I am about to present, which is indeed a big concern for many children and parents in Serbia. We all know that many primary schools have been shut down, over 200 secondary schools, because a small number of students, especially in southern Serbia, the east, western parts of Serbia, have remained few students to live in. It is illogical for you to suggest that a foreign language is provided to a group of 15 students only if two classes are consecutive. That's not good. If there are few students in one high school, the same applies to primary school, you should allow that group to be of 15 students, but all classes should be covered. Personally, I have had many experiences to educate groups of students who are even in a larger range of years. For example, the students of the 5th grade of some elementary school from Petrovac at Mlava, I can't remember, there were various groups and students of various universities, high school students who attended abroad for a month or two English-language schools, and they were then graduated on the basis of what they learned in that first phase. It is also possible to do it in high schools, and also in basic so that you don't want those children who want to learn Russian, now many children at school want to learn Chinese, English, what is defined, that they have classes if they are a group of at least 15 students. Now the second problem, Mr. Minister, is that many local self-governments, first in the extended period, and then very badly executed the networking of individual primary schools. Then, what many local self-governments didn't recognize in time, and the directors of those secondary vocational schools, what would happen based on years of experience, when it comes to enrolling in certain professional classes. Then you wouldn't have to, as was the case in July, to be amazed at the fact that you have to shut down over 200 secondary schools in Serbia. The way that certain school directors think, as Radeta says, is important for them to have that school advice and, above all, the influence of some parents, how they will do something, how they will organize excursions, that many of them, unfortunately, make some personal gain, rather than think about what happens in the middle of what happens in five, ten and twenty years. This is the problem and the ministry that you are now running, and believe it will be, every next minister if they do not actually implement a real cut in these leading personnel of individual schools in Serbia, because they have shown people, and believe it now through this networking, the creation of academia, professional high schools that they are absolutely incapable of doing this job. Unfortunately, many are also corrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69043	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69044	The assessment of student rule has been the subject of almost every law on education and education in the last twenty years. It went from being estimated that as it has been so far, that governance can be appropriate, very good, enough or not satisfactory, you are now replacing enough with satisfactory. Once upon a time, this rating of government entered the final average for the final success of school. Sometimes he doesn't come in, but believe me, this is just saying that you're actually just doing the changes of the law on the surface, this is essentially a banal change. Whether it's going to be written down to be a child who gets a two out of government, whether it's satisfactory or enough or enough, it's absolutely irrelevant. It is much more important, to do everything possible, everything that is your jurisdiction, in the jurisdiction of the other ministries, to arrange the way schools function. That drugs are absolutely thrown out of school, that alcohol is thrown out of school, and that minors come either drugged or drunk at schools to maximise peer violence, to provide all schools with school police. That's the story, 20 years of talking about it, and then when there's a tragedy, when something inappropriate happens at a school, then all the authorities come out and say again -- from tomorrow on, every school will have its own cop and so on. To do everything in your power that I can't at school have the parent's word, to take away those school advices where parents do everything they can think of. We've talked about it more than once, and there's someone who doesn't mind putting out five hundred euros to paint two classrooms, and then he acts like the head of the school. Talk to the teachers. They say when some bald dad comes with a jeep, they stand in a calm position, and the director runs out - excuse me, tell me, we'll take care of it, don't worry, just so that this bald guy with the jeep doesn't get to the minister, or someone in the inspection, the director will accept everything to blacken the worst of his fellow teacher, because the system is poorly set. We understand that you can't do everything, we understand that no one can give every child, every parent, every teacher individually, that they can have an opinion about him, that they can have influence, etc. But when the system is established, then they themselves will come out of normal schools, normal classes, normal ones. You know, we don't think it's necessary for the students to tremble like a rod when they see their teacher somewhere on the street, or I don't know, but not that, but the teacher is shaking when he enters the class, because he doesn't know if anyone, in the seventh grade, is going to be in fifth grade, whether or not someone is going to throw something at him, that teacher, is going to curse something, whether they're going to call someone an ugly name, that the whole class is laughing, that at the end of that class loses all meaning. Then all that matters to you is whether someone who hasn't gone too far in this inappropriate behavior is whether it's going to end up being judged as if his conduct is sufficient or satisfying. Believe me, completely irrelevant, the essence needs to be solved, and the main problem with this relationship between students and teachers is essentially problems that need to be solved. You have to admit, you haven't done that yet. You work from case to case. Then they comment on you in the paper, whether the minister said this, or said that, it's completely unnecessary. You're supposed to propose a law here to pass a law, which will sort out the relationship in the classroom from the ground up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69045	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69046	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the law refers to students with developmental disorders, disability, specific learning difficulties, language barriers when they pass their degree. I would take the opportunity to ask the minister, citing a concrete example from a Belgrade school, what the ministry did when a student saw a problem I was going to tell you about. In particular, it was a student who had a problem with writing, or discography, and none of the teachers, or teachers, noticed it, but the parents who worked with their child noticed this problem. At the time, they first went to a school psychologist who had only surfaced in this child and said that he had no learning problems, which he did, and what parents didn't even complain about because the child on oral knowledge checks showed excellent success, and on written exercises and these tests, he received poor grades with 15 minutes of exercise, mostly a unit or a two. Then the parents turned to the defecologist, the neurologist, and the student gets a report that clearly states that he needs longer than anticipated to run these tests. He was then introduced to a class elder, who said he would inform all other colleagues and would work with the recommendation of a defecologist. However, neither the class elder nor any other teacher has extended the time for the work of tests and written assignments to the student, so that the child eventually had a worse success and had much more knowledge than the success shown. I would ask you, how many students who have problems with writing, or who have dysgraphs, do teachers characterise it as bad handwriting, how many students are damaged because teachers don't deal with students the way they should? We think that every school should include a defecologist, and that this member of the law, we are afraid that it will remain just a dead letter on paper, because these children attend classes on a regular programme, not on an individual basis, so that they are practically invisible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69047	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69048	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected guests from the Ministry, respected MPs who are in the Assembly benches, one of the problems that the bill should address, as well as the objectives of the solution, which are proposed to allow greater availability of quality education and education for all children with development and disability, through the development of guidelines that would improve their educational work and the perceived needs and opportunities of each individual child as well as groups in general. This is why guidelines are given that are closer to regulating the way in which learning and providing individual and group additional support to students with developmental and disability disorders are adapted. And I'm just going to do a reading and say, when we talked about this bill on amendments to the law and amendments to the law on the fundamentals of the education and education system, you noticed that no amendment has been put on Article 3 that speaks of this issue, which will say that this article is very well written. As regards the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on secondary education and education, this problem is also defined, so that the student with developmental and disability disorders, specific learning difficulties or language barriers, is subject to general graduation in conditions, which provide for overcoming physical and communication barriers. Dear Ministers, these amendments and additions to the laws mentioned, provide equal access to free inclusive quality education that is tailored to the needs of students with developmental disorders, and disability, as equal access to the physical environment, transport of information, communication technologies and other services. When writing these laws, I must say that you took care of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, International Documents, as well as domestic laws and strategies. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination based on Disabilities, the Strategy to improve the position of persons with disabilities, as well as the Employment Law and Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Dear Ministers, MPs, every day when I pass through my city, I see that the Science Technology Park in Nis, of which you ministers are in opening and speaking, is being built more and more every day. If I'm not mistaken, and you correct me, the Republic of Serbia, I think, has invested about 15m euros in the project. Look at the wonders, as one MP said, the Science Technology Park has not even finished, and Company Ji technologji, the IT company from Turkey, which is working with the big world company, "Huaway", is interested in being one of the residents of the Science Technology Park in Nis, which is at the service, as we know young scientists, to facilitate and help start app companies. To conclude, with the paraphras of Kathon II – I think we still need to reassess 620 million, tycoon Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69049	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69050	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I, of course, fully agree with my colleague Rancic's discussion, but I would like to add one more thing. The focus of the educational laws is to protect the best interests of the student. In the focus of the law on secondary education, it is also the protection of students' best interests and the increase of children attending high school, because we know that education is one of the main causes of poverty reduction, that education is related to the country's economic progress, but also to poverty reduction. When it comes to children, people with disabilities, of course, that we meet those children, their parents face difficulties in the educational process, but I give great recognition to the Ministry of Education and to you ministers personally, that you have recognized the difficulties these children face, that individual education plans have been made precisely so that every child with developmental difficulties will be educated according to their potentials and in accordance with what they can achieve. Of course, the law provides for guidance that additional teams of experts working in education will provide the child with full and health and education and social support, all in line with the findings and opinions of the Interresor Commission. Of course, if this is not just a question of educational institutions, this is a question much broader in the educational process, as support local self-government and social work centres and health institutions must be included. But what I want to say in the end, unlike the yellow tycoon company, Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic, who robbed, robbed children distracted in development, only through the castle "Hetherland" for 150 million, we and how we take care of the protection of the best interests and students of developmental interference. It is one process, it will be continued and will constantly go to the promotion that these children also acquire knowledge according to their abilities and according to their interest. It's SNS policy, it's this government policy, it's Alexander Vukic's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69051	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69052	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to relate to my fellow Nish fellow who spoke of major results in the field of education. The secondary education he mentioned is very good, given that the bill is related to the draft law relating to dual education, which relates to secondary vocational education. Inclusion of children and young people is something that is not only a priority for the SNS, but also a priority for the Serbian government and you are ministers on several occasions and have shown it. I have already cited more schools in principle as examples of good law enforcement in education areas. We are witnessing good results as a result of the application of the Dual Education Act, which is closely related to this bill of law that we are talking about today. To date, we have seen that there are many interested schools, but on the other hand, companies both domestic and foreign and that the positive effects of applying laws relating to the integration of education, secondary education and economy at a satisfactory level. First of all, it is a good proposal to include state authorities in the dual education system, which I left out in principle to praise, especially the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. Another good solution that I'd like to say is to ensure the possibility of enrolling students on a dual model in advance, in order to ensure the priority of entering dual profiles. This will also provide promotion of dual education as a model for students to gain competence at a very high level. Data and statistics are inconclusive evidence that certain results exist for example. The dual education model gives good results. According to data from school 2019-2020, as many as 72 secondary schools realize some educational profile by dual model. At that time, about 2,600 students enrolled in the first class in the dual model of education. In all classes it is about 7,000 students in 104 schools, on 37 different dual educational profiles. According to the Chamber of Commerce, about 400 companies have already been accredited or are under accreditation. Companies, both domestic and foreign, are interested in joining the dual model of education, are interested in co-operation with secondary schools. There are students, but also those companies that will have professional employees who will absolutely be trained to work in these companies. This will, of course, also affect the further development of the economy in the Republic of Serbia. The great progress in the area of education that we have made so far obliges us to continue working on the development of education and education systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69053	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69054	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the work of the Commission for the Development and Implementation of Dual Education established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to implement and improve dual education and three-year evaluations of the results achieved is very active. Now, with the full application of the Dual Education Act, this Commission plays an even more important role as it brings together representatives of institutions directly involved in the implementation of dual education, but those involved in the creation of education policies. The Commission shall act in accordance with the Master's plan to be continuously promoted to this field data and data resulting from systemic changes. These activities, such as the creation of a Master Plan, the development of a framework for the monitoring and evolution of dual education, support for the work of the Commission for the development and implementation of dual education, support for the Swiss Development and Cooperation Agency under the Joint Project of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, support for the development and establishment of a national model of dual education. Another important fact is that its implementation does not require the provision of funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the budget of the AP unit of local self-government. The cost of carrying out studies per dual model is no different from the costs incurred by a high school institution for the realization of a traditional model, and the employer who participates in the realization of learning through work bears his own costs, as well as the costs of material and financial security of students. The costs to be incurred in the application of this law shall be the fees for the accreditation procedure normally paid to the national accreditation body and to verify the quality of higher education and the procedure for granting consent to the organisation of modules under an accredited study programme. These fees are borne by higher education institutions. Employers only participate in the realization of the dual study model if they have their own interest, so that they cannot talk about burdensome costs for their business. Finally, a gram of practice is harder than a ton of theories, and the synergy of these two things brings us a complete educational personality that contributes to itself and the whole community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69055	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69056	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, imagine when professors of the university are educated by a professional teacher who teaches in high school? First, to apologize to Dani Popovic, I presented the wrong information. I thought I said she paid for the apartment of 365 thousand Swiss, and it's about 365 thousand euros. So it's about 400,000 Swiss francs, which she once paid for her other apartment. They say it's on three levels, but it's so high and so high in a teacher's numbers, it's a little problematic. But if we know, and you, Mr. Minister, owe us the information, what happens to the plagiarism that she performed over her late colleague Babic's textbook, I believe that these are revenues that lead to 400,000 Swiss francs, or 36,000 euros that she once paid. But, behold, miracles, from the Efficient Association, complains that she was all the time they fought side by side with the Swiss to the banks, she represented the other way around. She represented banks, instead of representing citizens, citizens whose children were students, etc., who had a lot of problems due to loans in Switzerland. She wasn't representing the citizens, she was representing the banks and I believe she was part of the proceeds from there. When I asked for the degree of Balša Bozovic, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, because of the academic congratulation of themselves, as well as Professor Vesna Rakić Vednelic, who was his party colleague, I also ask you to check out that type of his degree, to see where the great Balša locksmith graduated. Is it true that in part that the exams, which he could not pass at the university of state, he passed at the Union Faculty at Vesna Rakić Vednelic's and thus represents himself as a graduate lawyer and I am very interested in whether he passed the Law Faculty and the exam with Professor Begovic, who is the husband of this Danica Popovic, who is so enormously profiting that he can buy apartments of 400,000 euros? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69057	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there are many topics on the agenda today, and also somewhat related to two resolutions -- education and culture, we have to realize that since 2000, not every government has simply paid enough attention to these two resolutions. Usually in the distribution of party prey, someone who is not satisfied with it has not put some effort into it, but the fact is, too, yes, as in any other segment of social life, as in education and culture, for 20 years we have been unspeakably fulfilling everything we are asked to do, dreaming that one day we will meet in the EU. So we were able to come to the conclusion that today our biggest authority in these two resolutions, in public life, therefore, in public, is representatives of the NGO sector, NGOs, those who finance themselves abundantly from abroad, and show open anti-Serb activity in our country. I remind you that this government, the SNS government, for the first time in history, in addition to all these first times in the history of things it has done, for the first time in history, has financed the festival "Mirdita", which aims to promote the so-called Kosovo culture in downtown Belgrade and, to make trouble even bigger, the former culture minister, Mr Tasovac, and the current SNS and committee members in the Belgrade City Assembly have repeatedly supported the event. She organizes herself once a year. It should show us where we are now, what has become normality in Serbia. So that they appear openly at such events by former ministers, prominent members of the ruling party, and that the government is particularly funding such events. As far as the textbooks are concerned, I think it's really important. There's one more thing about that. We only see reactions when a scandal occurs. In our opinion, it would be responsible by the government, not only by the elder, but by the ministry, that as well as in education, and in every other segment, each other's resources try not to do such things, and not just when the public gets on their feet. The first time was... Let me remind you, the biggest conflict in the ruling coalition has been caused by textbooks with LGBT contents. This led to nearly one minister being left without a ministry when he opposed it. And would you have known anything to me about all this if he hadn't made it public? That is the case with these scandals over some historic forgeries, such as the latest example of the "blood tax" as an opportunity to create a career within the framework of the Turkish Empire. We can find Jasenovac in a positive context tomorrow. We can also find Serbia's bombing in a positive context and the UN tribunal as a court of justice that brought reconciliation to the Balkans and punished those evil Serbs for everything they did, and we can find something else that is also current today. If we are on the line of the school book "Logosa", "Kleta", "Bigza" and other Zagreb publishing houses, which are very open through their functioning on the market, market behaviour, profit hunting, politics. They're sending political messages. We can find tomorrow and here, why not, a Montenegrin auto-Cefal Orthodox church which the same evil Serbs in Montenegro's occupation have abolished, as it is now a historic injustice. If it can be a "blood tax" positive thing, why can't it be all this? We have spoken several times and we are grateful to the Ministry of Culture, which has accepted our initiative and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to announce Peter Handke, a great Serbian friend and writer of the world rank, but we think there is one more thing to be done, that the government of the Republic of Serbia should establish an institute that would study the Hague verdicts. All UN verdicts, which are political, against Serbs, with the goal of blaming all of Yugoslavia, the bloody civil war and all the crimes that took place in that war, exclusively against the Serb people. We shouldn't accept that, not even that so-called. The genocide in Srebrenica and we should learn from it ourselves. A responsible state would do so, so it is our initiative that the Government of the Republic of Serbia enters the business as well. Why would you let that happen? It works, along with these NGOs, the NGO sector, the process of change of mind. So to show us that we are not the same as those Europeans, that we are always guilty, by nature we are evil and that we are simply born and live and we always have this burden of guilt and bad deeds from the past. It is also a fact We have talked today about this framework of qualifications and this has shown us that not only economic policy, security policy, foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, but also education, education, culture, everything is in the function of foreign investors in this way. We adapt to those, welcome them here with praises, I don't know if you know it, but we also have foreign investors' markets in Serbia. So, we welcome them with praises, which, as they raise our business activity, our economy, and we give them huge subsidies in the workplace. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia pays, pays salaries to workers in foreign companies. The companies had previously received land free of charge, all permits under accelerated procedures and free and local self-government or the Government of the Republic of Serbia maximum access to some other economic interests. So is this. They simply demand from us, asking, that's what we serve them for, and what's best for us, it's been shown over the past 20 years, the export product, is a cheap workforce. We can talk here about the German standard, about Swiss pensions, about 500-euro salaries, we can also watch Dnevnik 2, so we think we're looking at science fiction, but the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia paid a marketing video on CNN TV in 2014, which invites foreigners to come and invest in Serbia as a country of cheap labour. It was paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So everything here is subordinated to the interests of strangers. What are the salaries in these companies today and the safety of those workers who work there? Very small. The salaries are often around the minimum wage, and there is no security, since every one of these companies when the subsidy programme expires again the government of the Republic of Serbia will again report that it is negotiating, and if they negotiate as "Fiyat" every year, and if there is no such deal, the continuation of the subsidy programme, only foreigners say -- here are these workers, here's this company, here's your factory, here's your land, everything, we're going back. That's how they blackmail the government in Serbia. It is today, unfortunately, our reality, and we are also through this process of dual education and these qualifications, we adapt to it. We don't see the problem. It all started with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is a disaster for our economy. So, we are unilaterally applying something, and the future uncertainty, Serbia's membership in the European Union, it is no longer hidden that the perspective that does not exist, so Serbia's European perspective is dead and we are now being comforted by "little Schengen". So that's our reality and it's just passing by us, and we're looking, we're looking at the sides, and we can still hear it here that it's never better, the golden age and so on. So it's our opinion, and our view is that we need to break up with this policy of unspeakable fulfillment of everything that comes from Brussels. Of course, if there is a reform that improves a particular area, it should be accepted, but it is not the same as political pressures for something that will never happen, which is unfortunately so today in Serbia. I'm afraid so. We believe that the more urgent the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should review Serbia's path to the European Union. I will remind you, the people in Serbia have never declared whether or not Serbia's entry into the European Union is not only these economic arguments, which I was talking about, but is one of the greatest arguments on the protection of territorial integrity and sovereignty. We were talking here about UNESCO and protecting our cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. If we come to sign a legally binding agreement between Belgrade and Pristina, that is. between Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo will become a member of the United Nations and will automatically enter UNESCO without voting, after automation, as the UNESCO body operating under the auspices of the United Nations is. Then why all of our victories, about that vote and so on? We boasted about it, and now if we put that signature on, there's no voting anymore. So these are all the arguments that are serious, which should make us think clearly about Serbia's foreign policy and Serbia's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69059	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to article 7 of this law. Otherwise, I will remind you, this Article 7 refers to Article 63a of the basic law, and it treats, that is, the conditions under which professional and general graduations for three years of occupation can be acquired. It is good that this law gives them the opportunity to have three-year professions in dual education, to enable them to obtain general and professional graduation, of course, provided that the appropriate programme and the appropriate competences for a certain graduation are mastered. But what's not good is that these same conditions have to apply and should apply to all other three-year professions. We are witnessing that the government and the leadership of Serbia, for some of them known reasons, are pushing for this dual education both in secondary and higher education, and I would like it to be the results of what they were declared in the introduction of this kind of education and the results that the government expects. But from experience, a man who's really incorporated in the most direct way, I can see that it doesn't go exactly the way it's supposed to, that there's a million problems and that there's a lot more to be done, and maybe some things will never be done, that what the results are expected to be done. So, for you, Mr. Minister, one question, and that is to look at all the negative things, all the practice that has so far shown from the field, about this dual education, and try to correct it, if possible, to correct it, if not possible, then there in perspective you are thinking about introducing some new form of education instead of this dual.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69061	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69062	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so no one made it to the finish line unless they took the first step. You can't do something, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it in place. What a colleague was talking about can be positive and can be as good as pointing to something to be built up. But that the ministry didn't go through with dual education and that it didn't bring these changes where it allows people who go to high school to be able to improve their qualifications in a certain way, to get them into a situation so they can continue to study and become academic citizens of the highest level. What would I suggest to the Minister? To also try to find a solution for vocational schools. We have passed a law that is now in force, where those who graduate from vocational schools cannot go on to academic studies. So, when they finished three years of vocational school, they cemented their education, or advancement. There's a problem now. I've heard from a lot of students with that pain. They are allowed in these vocational schools to continue specialist studies, but these specialist studies, although they have 240 points, are not recognised as a university, an academic level which is the same with 240 points. It's nice and it's nice to let kids, or kids in those vocational high schools, three years old, let them continue their education to the highest levels, but we need to find a way to help these people or kids, however you want, and not look black at that dual education at all levels. I went to technical school, but we had once a week practice and in that practice, seven, eight hours as long as it lasted, we learned to handle both the tour and the bonsek and the other tools. I remember one of the tasks on these practical works was to make a hammer, the second time we made pliers. So that's very good, and what's good, it's good that these young people are preparing themselves both professionally and theoretically to be able to access their new jobs when they're done where they're ready to join the work process immediately. It is also true that what colleagues in the SRS say is that many things are subordinated to those who handle these jobs today, or employers. It's not Serbia's trend, it's the trend of the whole world and it's wrong. We have to be wise, to be somewhere in between, to please each other's apartment. You can't cut everything with a sword right now and say, so that's how it's going to be, so we're not really a force that big enough to be able to determine what's going to be and how it's going to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69063	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69064	We Serbian radicals express a large reserve when it comes to these laws that are being subordinated, as my colleague Ljubisa said, to employers. It may not be as much of a percentage as we stress, but in any case it deserves attention, it deserves caution. Here in this amendment, i.e. this Article 9, is about something that is the crown of all of what the minister has said, which is the signing of a contract with employers where they will be employed in the practical part of teaching high school students, and in this second law, it is dual education. We have in fact this great obligation to keep an eye on how this will take place in the coming period. The contract is signed, the agreement is signed, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is included, not to spread the story. I personally have a large reserve, knowing who's in charge of that chamber, a man who doesn't have a job. There are those who have doctored here, have master's degree, have no schoolmate, but he has no employment in the economy, but he is headed by the Chamber of Commerce. He was brought by the ambassador of Germany to the post, thanks to some other criteria, not those that would mean that a man with a working experience, and that is also a big problem, making it difficult. Why? Because no matter what the needs of the employers, what needs of the currently developed capacities of industry, if they exist, are literally in terms of the words, when it comes to the domestic industry. The government must have a vision. The government must have a projection of something called secondary education when it comes to professional orientation. It's not gonna be another hundred years or, God forbid, 10 years of this kind of situation? I guess the government is planning what direction will the industry develop, in which direction will the economy develop? We have something here that we can now say that public enterprises are ahead of transformation, and that's inevitable. The question is how are we going to continue these high school students, or those who are in dual education to engage, what are the contracts, what are the conditions under which they will work? What if, in the practical part, they continue to stop their education because the employer closes the company and leaves because of objective circumstances?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69065	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69066	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, this amendment provides for the obligation of a contract between schools and businesses themselves to be employers. I think that the model of dual education, which we have predicted, is a contact, a general personal choice of each student, firstly, whether it will be defined for dual education, and the personal determination of each student to enter into certain relationships with the employer who manufactures certain legal obligations of that employer personally to each student who is signed. So, the Dual Education Act has been prescribed that every student that is defined for this model personally sign a contract with the employer, or company in which he will work. The obligation of the school to sign, as an institution, with an employer, with the company should in fact oblige the employer to assume all receipts in the event of non-responsibility of each student. Thus, and when we talk about these salaries, fees that will be 70% of the minimum wage in the company, should be paid at the expense of the school itself. Thus, the employer would lose direct contact with his student, or his potential future employee. Therefore, we think that this amendment that you have proposed may be a good basis for some kind of guarantee, but surely it should not be a school, but, if we said it was a state, that it is the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, which, on the one hand, runs a register of these contracts, then the economy is that guarantee that it is a good relationship of students with an employer, with a company in which it works, not the education system itself. You know how, then you get the students to treat the contract less responsibly. We think that here the students themselves take responsibility much earlier for their schooling and for the way they operate in the workplace, although it is 20% working time or 80% working hours from the total number of hours that are up to 30 hours per week defined. I think the correct way is to reject this amendment of yours, and precisely for those reasons, because it is a desire for such a model of education to acquire one of the personal responsibilities of children who opt for this model of learning. Obviously, this model has shown that our children are smart, because they choose their future, choose the kind of profiles with which they will have knowledge and always have a job, because 2,600 students would not be defined in this school year for this very schooling model. That means we'll have 2,600 potentially new contracts, personally, each individual with companies. This does not mean that they will not be able to, if after two years they give up and give up on such a model of education, continue and graduate after the fourth year of high school, as all other high school students have the opportunity. I was going to say, and when we talk about high school, I think it's very important to say that the model of working high school has changed a lot. In our education system, in addition to having classic high school, so we went to aphirmize especially gifted children through specially defined high school, we now have open wards for specially gifted children in certain areas. So we forced this IT sector, so special departments are open and the exams are a week or even a month before classical high school, and that's very good, because it turned out to be very good results. It's no accident, believe me, that our young mathematicians are winning first place in all possible competitions. This is precisely because the state recognized that these children should be stimulated in special ways and ultimately we have professional, or vocational schools for secondary education that have shown that certain transformations, depending on the labour market, are necessary and they are believed to change. They change on the basis of their programme, and what they show is that this type of dual education and education is not accidentally increasing. This means that the consciousness of young people has been transformed over the past five years. This means that in fact, the introduction of this dual education is really achieved by being recognized in society that you always have an option of choice. So a 15-year-old student has to have a choice by the time he's 18. Whether it's dual at this point, so after two years he might want a student to go to a classical education that includes secondary education, he's given the opportunity, the state has allowed him to choose. We first prescribed the Dual Education Act, if you remember, that it must only be defined in the first year and that there is no change. However, we are now opening an even wider range of opportunities for our children to opt to change their views at the end of the day, to change their professions, because the labour market is changing, market needs are changing, competition between fighting for good children, or for children who are learning well. Someone's good at practice, someone's good at theory. They may not have a real picture of it until they're 16, 17 years old. Data is a possibility for them to have some of their goals in life, which they set, and even if their goals change at the moment that the state has made it possible for them to change their own way of working and schooling. It's important for both children and parents. Therefore, I think that this amendment has rightly been rejected to accept, because simply this direct contact between students and employers is, in fact, the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69067	Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69068	Dear colleagues, a series of factors affecting everything you've been talking about. First of all, do not run away from one factor that has affected that our students of mathematically specialized high school have such results. It is a unique case almost in Serbia that human beings at the school did not change anything, regardless of what was a major reform. They have endured all these temptations, the challenges. They were hit by reform laws where they were said to be able to do so even though they were going, I don't know about targeted education, and then they have two years of specialization. It's humanely left. Secondly, there are criteria of enrolment standard and very high-level. Now, when we talk about this second part, which you've explained, don't you think that for a young man of 15 it's too big and too big a decision? He should decide with his 15 years of life, where at some stage of puberty, what his life will be like. It affects a series of factors, a series of reasons. One of the most influential is getting a job right after school. It used to be known when it came to division and when it comes to high school personnel. Someone went to high school, they were natural and social, so there were different teachers who taught in the natural direction of mathematics and those who taught in the social direction of mathematics, although they were both mathematicians. But it was trying in this natural direction to be, however, conditionalally, more well-founded professors. Here you have one conglomerate coming out of after 2000, where a young man... (President: Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... We need him to accept that responsibility, to decide his fate, and we warn that he needs to be taken care of. It doesn't just end - he chose, so he chose wrong. He becomes a problem if he's mischosen, he becomes the problem of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69069	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69070	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, for the first time, we now have the practical introduction of legal obligations that education in general and education system in a completely different way, if you see 2000 as some comparative analysis in terms of the period, that the focus is completely transferred to the student. So, up until now, the focus has always been schools, teachers, teachers. Now we're turning our focus somewhere towards the student and the needs of the labour market. We had at the National Employment Service about 500 jobs that were completely dysfunctional for our economy. We still have some problems today. We know that certain professions that are most paid in EU countries, i.e. the most developed countries, and that will come to us, such as project managers, such as IT managers, such as energy managers, are simply interests that have not yet been properly brought to life in Serbia. In that classification when we talk about the National Employment Service, the University of Belgrade, unlike the University of Novosad, has not been defined as a graduate environmental engineer because it is divided into technical, biological, natural and mathematical universities, which is, for example, recognized by the University of Novosad and this as an occupation was a problem that was not introduced into the classification of the National Employment Service. What's up with us? It's up to us to produce occupations in children who will find jobs in the labour market. We have done this with the help of the development of the economy, the opening of new factories, the opening up of these sectors, which, growing economies in the world, simply through this dual education, have established a system for which children will opt for those interests they have a job to do. That's what's most important to us. Schools must not be part of that contact between children and businesses, or students with graduated diplomas and businesses, or employers. They're supposed to be the point of merger, not separation. (President: Bring the end. We're probably having changes that were the point of separation. Now they are the point of merger and that is what the government and the Ministry of Education recognized and Alexander Vukic when he advocated dual education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69071	Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69072	It's obvious that we're talking about the same thing, that's what we sincerely want to make it possible for high school students, which is that the state of affairs is an environment for most of these people to be safe after all. In what way? In terms of their choices. If he chose a high school where real needs exist for the sake of electro-privedness, then Elektroprivreda had to be a carrier, a guarantee of employment and further training of these people. We can't exactly leave them alone, how it's interpreted here, the market and being exposed to the employer. It is now a situation such that there is a need for certain profiles of craftsmen. Why? Because of a large gap, it was created by the huge number of people in the field of crafts work finding their jobs in Germany and Western Europe. It won't last forever. It should not be seen so that it will always be that Germany will also have the needs of Western European countries behind the welders, behind the locksmiths. There's a saturation, there's a closure. There were such periods when the Eastern-European bloc opened up, so it was a period when the Germans took, as it would say, free professional labour. We must take care of what is the definition of this country. Let's say -- we're going to have so many students in high school that we guarantee with public enterprises, with what the state is going to sign contracts as employers. The state is the biggest employer there. There's no bigger employer than the state. Well, people who will sign off on these foreign companies that are here, they'll have a chance, but don't forget that what's life, and life is that you get a job as soon as you get a job, it's vital that you start making money as soon as possible, so they count on it to last. Even information technology won't always be boom. We have to count on it. It has to be taken care of, because most of these people stay here to live and, as Ljubisa's colleague said, it must be taken care to enable those who finish three years old to be able to perfect themselves and to recognize it as something that they have put their efforts into.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69073	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69074	The definition of the Republic of Serbia is to employ young people in companies where they will truly have a decent salary of living in Serbia, shoulder to shoulder with those who live their lives, their peers in developed countries, not only the EU, but other regions as well. But what is it? We were transferred to how we employ in the public sector and how we keep pushing people into the state administration instead of hiring them in private. That is the point, in order to boost the economy, you must simply strengthen the private sector. In the private sector there are much higher salaries, in the private sector you have new interests, career progress. Career movement goes into one man's life and a minimum of three professions change. Here you go, Professor. Atlagic confirms it himself based on his experience in the field of education. So, the bottom line is that the Republic of Serbia recognized the need, simply that this kind of education gives higher rates of growth, simply pushes Serbia into the application of new occupations, new technologies, to meet what I was talking about in a united debate, the fourth industrial revolution. Whoever doesn't master the mechanisms of new technologies won't be able to catch a simple path, the mechanism, however, at high growth rates, won't be able to develop. We no longer live in systems where the state manages state money and economy. We live in countries where the market economy is simply the main orientation. Therefore, we state-owned systems and state-owned public enterprises, based on what we have, should guard and train the fit for the future, but best practice and best work will be obtained by those children who end up in these large companies where wages are two, three times higher than in the public sector. And I think it's in the interest of all of us, mostly as parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69075	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69076	You're right when you say we don't have great opportunities when it comes to large enterprises in the machinery industry. That convinced us, if the Machine Industry Nis wasn't unnecessary to us, they said -- what we would have one of those giants, giants are just losers. Well, then they also said -- what do we need the cable industry so big in Jagodina, it only serves to be a loser. And then there was a big gap, my colleague, and you know it. In the technical profession we've been brought to the brink of survival when it comes to technical colleges, you know that very well. We came into a situation where, say, at the Faculty of Civil Engineering on the fingers of one hand, you could count the total number of students. Why? Because the policy was conducted so that it simply aimed at eliminating what was intellectual, which was educated, which was perfected in the area of the construction industry, because we said we had finished projects. When it comes to technology in the machinery industry at all, they said – what will we, well, we have a technology that is much cheaper to import than to invent or design our engineers. And the country that comes, when it comes to the technical waist on such low branches, must suffer the consequences. This is part of a secondary education forced the move of the state, because there was a huge gap when it came to some high school occupations, especially this dual education, it was extorted, because it didn't act stimulatingly or act on children, students, those who went on the job. They were simply destimulated. It has not been taken into account in certain areas that we will not have a generation and we are left without a generation that is ready, able to do certain professional work within secondary education. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69077	Thank you. Right on the line, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69078	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, I think the Serbian government has actually shown and recognised how to deal with the problems encountered in society, but that's not just our problem. This is what all the countries of the Western Balkans have, and God gives me and some EU member states. Just those old nations, you and Germany are one of the old nations that received five million new pensioners, and by 2030, there is a problem in solving exactly the issue of the Soviets and will therefore accumulate according to the plan of over a million people, which, in fact, has opened up the legal possibility of easier employment since the new year. What's this about? So, you're losing your temper because of that, because of the lack of a certain number of people from certain professions. Given that you say this is an extorted process, I say not only was he extorted but it was Serbia's need. That simply in a very efficient and short way, in the best possible way, we are teaching children precisely for those interests where the salaries will be higher and those salaries that will be higher in fact tomorrow will lead to greater economic growth, increased accumulation and a better standard of living for Serbian citizens. So that possibility was not allowed for Serbia to drop and not drop. That's why it just led to that. If that weren't true, who of these large companies from abroad would open new technology parks, new innovation centres, practically transfer their technology here to teach our engineers the latest technologies and applications here in the economy. We have opened up as a state investment environment through economic reforms, fiscal consolidation, to open up the possibility that the latest, state-of-the-art factories with the best technology are opening up here, that children stay here, that those who finish high school don't have to go abroad and for Germany, that the salaries here will have and get bigger and bigger and bigger. If they're enough now, they're not, but they'll certainly be bigger and bigger. That abroad, where they open, they will be less and less due to great competition, and that is what the mechanisms of the Government of the Republic of Serbia at this point are best for the state and for our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69079	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69080	Well, it's not that big of a technology that brings it here, it's not some complicated technology where there's a lot of knowledge or ability to perfect it. You all know that. Just like we Serbian radicals, you know that well. Not you personally, but many of you sitting on the other side. What needs to be said clearly is that the fleet that the state cannot interfere with market relations, that the market law has to rule and when it comes to labour. That's no longer true, dear colleague, in neither America nor Western Europe, anywhere. You've seen how America reacts when it comes to the survival of Ford, giant. The state immediately interfered, not only financially, but also in this part. They immediately said – the reasons why, conditionally said, the beginning of the "Ford" collapse are among other things and in the frames. And America was reacting, because it's huge, "Ford" is America. That's how Serbia should go with that logic. Whether these will be 10, 20 or five years, that nobody knows, they're drawn by profits, by them and by the time they stay here and work, and the engagement of the workforce defines and decides profit and nothing more. And we have a mission as a state to be very careful. Is being extorted, having to hurry can bring even greater danger. That's why you need to be careful when it comes to secondary education. They're young people, 15-year-olds who are just stepping into life and need to make their own life decisions. It could be devastating. What do we do? We need to give them all the possibilities. And those who are good and who are not. But if the state of Serbia is behind it, if public enterprises stand then that security will be higher, it will not be 100%, it is out of mind. In any case, we insist on caution.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69081	Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69082	The state guards strategically important companies. If you remember in economic reform, we had one law that protected 17 important strategic enterprises that we were waiting for certain investors to buy. So we preserved "The Iron", 4,000 jobs, Bor and other businesses. It is important to tell Serbian citizens that subsidies exist for these companies and we all know that. Although you remember here that we have a Commission for State Aid Control, that state aid exists for certain companies for which we preserve the strategic goals of developing the economy of the Republic of Serbia, but you should also tell other citizens of Serbia. That if you want to end the market economy then we have to give everything from the budget. If we have to give everything from the budget and for companies not owned by the state, then you have to say it's your political program and it's not a problem. Our political programme is not to undermine the financial possibility of the Republic of Serbia to take adequate care of both state-owned companies and hospitals and schools and cultural facilities, but on the other hand that we must have developed a market here and private companies that will work, because they are the greatest drivers of economic growth and development. We have shown essentially that the results for such a policy support and honor these EU members, but to God both this Trump and Putin for what Alexander Vukic did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69083	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69084	Here's the logic of things. No small funds are given to these foreign investors, I am not, in general, talking to investors about something that doesn't matter now. The number of employees shall also be determined through those funds. Each employee is subject to a subsidy. When it comes to perfecting, schooling in high schools, so you can talk that way, the state is already giving money. That it's an obligation to be able to educate high school students in a certain number because they're money from this country. Don't talk, now all of a sudden it turns out that the state lets these people on the free market, that they're market laws. No, they're not. The state gives them money for each employee, gives them benefits in the form of land. He's giving them everything. Even so, the president of Serbia stands out. Now he said it in Davos. How many times has he repeated, if you find somewhere in the world to give you more favourable conditions come to us in Serbia we will give you even more favourable. That means even bigger subsidies. That's the question of how long does it last? You're saying we don't have a program. We in the program have a clear definition of what needs to be done. You don't need to get carried away with it. Cheap labour, simple technology and largely increased exports in the interest of foreign companies have not benefited anyone in the world. It won't bring it to Serbia either. That you can statistically show as much as you want and as much as you want, but in the structure of that statistics there are people who are old, who are professional and see what perspective is. There's no perspective if we don't get back to our homework, if we don't get back to the greater share of our domestic economy. We don't have, we're being destroyed, we've recently been bought by a former tractor factory in New Belgrade. It's torn down all the way to the ground. They're building buildings. Is that Serbia's perspective?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69085	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69086	Economic growth, i.e. for the previous year, was 4.4%, for 2019 somewhere at 4.1%. So this shows that we have made high growth rates thanks to parallel economic reforms in fiscal consolidation and the creation of new jobs, i.e. new factories, companies coming from countries both east and west. If you're saying it's a subsidy issue, then I ask you why was this dual education in the matter of subsidies not introduced when the "Fiat" came during Boris Tadic? Then why wasn't that model introduced, if you say that from these subsidies we actually pay our children to teach them dual education? What do I want to tell you? I want to tell you that a completely new education system has been established in the Republic of Serbia, an extremely responsible system that has been created, indeed the result of hard work and the Ministry of Education, and science and technological development. Why do I say education, science, and technological development? Because it is obvious that it is necessary for children from primary school, from kindergarten, through high school to college to really make the possibility of permanent education, education and work towards new market conditions. It is true that by 2012, we had had a huge economic Sunflower, a commercial Sunflower, a hundred thousand people who worked in bankruptcy companies, or restructuring for tens of thousands of dinars, or nothing. It is true that technical colleges were completely dead and uninteresting for students, as well as technical vocational schools, but now everything has changed. It changed because those kids have a future, because they see the light at the end of the tunnel, because they see that they're going to have a job. If you think 2,000 euros are small salaries for children to work, engineers in companies that are newly opened, in the IT sector, then I'm telling you that for Western Balkan countries it's a really decent salary. So, if it's enough for that profile experts, it certainly isn't, but we're heading for high growth rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69087	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69088	It has to be continuity, and when it comes to economic growth, GDP has to be in continuity. In order to be in continuity, he must have a base. The base is not what you are talking about now and what you want to show as a great success, by bringing this Turkish flow to 4%, or GDP. He's done, he's gone. It's not the base that you're saying it's grown housing, so we can raise hopes that GDP will grow. He won't. There's going to be market saturation, so what are you going to do? The base is when you have a continuity of production, basic production. It's a GDP base, when you have your own industry. On the other hand, you have something that you show as a major contribution to the growth of the economy. Yes, that's the logic of the Fiat, but the Fiat is an Italian company. "Fiat" is an Italian product. Everything foreigners do here, everything they import, export, that's their product. That's theirs. Profit goes to them. Part of that profit remains. We want and insist on developing the domestic industry. It's the only safety. Domestic economy, agriculture, energy, and education is the basis of all this. You can't say that - we've increased in the last quarter. Yes, but as you're going to increase, so you don't want another Turkish flow, there's one, it's over. You won't be making apartments forever. The highway is a special story. The corridor's three years late. And you seem to have gone to the moon, like you landed on the moon with Zorana Mihajlovic. What are the losses? How many performers did they owe? You don't mention that to anyone. It doesn't matter if it's over. And the people look at the final stage and say, "It's good." This is not the way to run the state and observe the state's economy, and especially education cannot be the basis for such leadership.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69089	Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69090	When we talk about continuity, in the last four years, we have an increase in constant growth rates and that is continuity. We have continuity in the budget surplus. So we have more income on a continuous basis than expenditure on the budget. And that's the continuity. When we talk about the base, the base is production and agricultural production. But now for the first time we have actually, what you're talking about is the Turkish flow, so it's just been built, it's just been set up, the gas hasn't started to flow yet. Only when the gas starts to flow, do you have transit fees and fees as revenue in the budget. We're just gonna get what we're talking about when it comes to energy. Therefore, it will be a constant income. It's some investment, investment for the future, which we'll pay off in a very short time, and then there'll be constant incomes and high growth rates when we talk about fees and energy. When we talk about production, we need to have young people who are really going to do this job, which is why these factories are opening up, with a large number of needs on the market. As you have seen, many companies from developed countries have recognised Serbia as a country in which new jobs should be created. What does that mean? In the case of subsidies, the State undertakes to grant these subsidies with certain deadlines. So it's five or ten years, but to keep and to hire a certain number of workers. If she doesn't hire, she pays double. Therefore, no company will open unless there is really a need for these jobs such a number, at all, the capacity of certain factories. It is therefore important that we have an educated ability for Serbia to produce children from both high schools and colleges, which will find a job in these companies, stay here in Serbia and really make a full contribution. It's important to all of us, especially parents, who don't just want their children to leave here and create families here, because they live because of the future of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69091	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69092	First, one correction, colleague. Everyone lives for himself, and works and strives to provide conditions for the lives of his descendants, and that is a simple fact. Second, completely simplified, when a young man graduates from high school, whether for three or four years, his desire is to make that job, trade or anything else within the profession work all the way to retirement. It's a wish. For this reason, we Serbian radicals have even more caution when it comes to signing these agreements. The state must be there, or the Ministry, government, all to engage. They have to make themselves clear. Because what does it mean when a young man signs an agreement with a foreign company that invested here? That's the least of the problems, when that foreign company gets picked up and goes away. But if the profile of his profession can't find a job here anymore, what are you going to do? Requalification? That's enough retraining. With that story, they came to us after October 5th and said, "It's best for requalification." Besides, here's from your profession, colleague, that's where we'll get along. Look at the brewery that's privatized. Do you know how many graduate engineers worked in brewery, for example, the chelarevo brewery, and the machinery and electrical and technological professions? A lot. Now it's bending down to the fingers of one hand. Why? Because their logic is quite reasonable. They said -- we have technology, we have everything, even packaging we have that's cheaper produced in Hungarian factories, we don't need engineers, we don't need creativity. That's the point. And every engineer, every schooled man costs this country. The easiest thing to say is that it was a logic after October 5th -- market conditions are that, let them manage, let them sell their knowledge. That's what the state invested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69093	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69094	Because of the citizens of Serbia, I must first say that the contracts concluded by students with the employer directly, when we talk about the contract register, is run by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. So, if there are certain interruptions in the work of the employers themselves, they are precisely defined by the contract which are the terms if the employer terminates the work contract himself. So you get a certain certificate that you've been working on certain conditions in that company, and that's actually a certain kind of certificate that you're showing you have experience with. You can work at any other company. So based on what knowledge you've acquired, you have the advantage of hiring in any other. On the other hand, that you're hiring today as a young man and that you're going to work at one company your whole life, there's no such thing as anywhere in the world anymore. It's a wish, right, that's the wish of all of us, but that's what career movement or career advancement implies, simply, that you learn in your professional work certain things and thus gain experience for many jobs where the company will be able to compete. And that's very important -- to create a simple condition, that might be more important than what the pay is. So one experience and certification based on which you'll always have a job. They can change circumstances, they can change professions, they can change the conditions of education, work, in every single person's life, it's important what you do with your knowledge, what you do. And that's what the principle of functioning in all developed countries is. The only thing about us was that you thought you needed to work at a bankruptcy firm, so-called. Restructuring for 10,000 dinars, doing so for 10 years, doing nothing, and the state lying to you about how you're getting your job back. So there's nothing left of that job. This political life was interrupted in 2012. There has been a reorganisation and re-industrisation, as Serbia would say, has seen economic reforms in which the results of the economy are visible today at every step.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69095	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69096	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My amendment to the Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education and education refers to Article 10, which is amended and reads as follows: "The Sublaw Act of Article 1 of this Act shall be adopted by the Minister within at least six months of the end of the school year in which the law has been passed. If the law is passed within six months of the current school year, the sublegal acts will apply from the next school year. “ By reason, the amendment is required to define the deadline for the adoption of sublaws in relation to the end of the school year in which the law was passed. In this way, there will be plenty of time for sublegal acts to be applied in a valid manner, in the current school year. If this deadline is shorter, then sublegal acts can only be applied from the next school year, which I find quite logical. I think it's more important here to answer some questions, which is, is our education in humane and mentality ready to accept and monitor modern development? Is it not a vein of old habits too deep, that is, in the face of a new one there is wandering or possibly resistance? Is the question of the quality of the teacher's call still open? Are they still drastically different from the state educational institutions? Just in the end, for failing to learn who's responsible? School, students, teachers, teachers, teachers, programs, or possibly parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69097	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69098	Thank you. Here, let me refer to these questions asked by fellow Boyic. It is very difficult now to answer all these questions at once, but this is an interesting question – who is responsible for the failure of education? All those listed by a colleague have responsibilities, both individuals and schools and society, teachers. Because what's the problem, I said the other day what's wrong with us? The problem with us is that teachers, or teachers, are not the ones who were the best and who entered this business out of love that their knowledge they had acquired can pass on to others. What's the problem? Well, the problem was, normally, that money. It's not just in Serbia, it's in the whole world. Everything is subject to material values. We forgot what Tesla said – if society wants to be successful, then it must agree both spiritually and morally and socially. Now, we didn't want to listen to Tesla, and the way he predicted that mankind would happen, slowly humanity would go towards that moment when there would be huge collapse, unrest, etc. That we must be smart and prevent in Serbia. A few years ago, a colleague and a colleague discussed it, and on several occasions they agreed that dual education was an extorted process. In some ways, we all agree that he may be extorted, but a good manager, a good leader, a good leader, a politician must be able to make out of what he has conditions to bring the system to its goal, or to do, in some ways, the well-being of society. It is today the task of all of us, not just the Ministry and the ruling structure, but everyone in Serbia. These are strategic things. We need to take advantage of that moment and make it possible for Serbia to improve. The colleague said, "He says: "These young people will go there because they will have great wages." No, people, they don't need dual education to be a motive for a great pay, they need to be a motive for knowledge. Through dual education, their knowledge will be both greater and better. The pay can change. Today can be 2,000 euros, tomorrow conditions change 1,000, 500 and eventually they can be fired, so they remain without pay. So, you can lose your salary, but without knowledge you can't stay, knowledge no one can steal from you. Young people who opt for dual education and who finish that dual education will be greatly ahead of their former colleagues, where they only had theoretical instruction. The state must not withdraw from all obligations it has. Why? It was one flossula from the West, or globalism, that the state retreated, to leave everything to the market. As a good host, and the state is ultimately the biggest employer, she has to control everything. Where it's wrong, it's going to get mixed up, the state won't interfere where it's good, but where it's wrong, as it is in management, so it says -- the higher level of management never interferes with lower-level affairs, except when there's a disturbance. That's how the state has to get involved when it's not good. Here's an example. It's an example of privatisation. We got into a situation that after 2000, it doesn't matter who did it anymore, no more complaining, we had a bad privatisation model. A little while ago, my colleague Mircic said, "I sold the factory," and now there's a backdrop, and now they're going to build buildings, and, I don't know, business space, apartments, etc. But wise and smart countries did it differently, so they said – we sell the factory for one dollar with the obligation to continue to do the same work that we sell to you for 15 years. You can't fire or you can fire with so many workers. The wages will be so high, you'll invest so much in development, and we've forgotten it. When we were selling, we showed that we were bad traders, and then, by mistake, there was destruction and industry and business and everything, it wasn't the ones who bought it, it was the ones who made it happen. So now through dual education, we're trying to correct something that's been wrong. It can't be done in a year, the minister would be a wizard if he could do it in a year. It will be a process in which generations and generations will have to participate and lead to the desired goal. I hope that all of us together, as many as there are, now I say -- there are less than 7,000,000 of us, we all have to put all our strength together and try to get Serbia on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69099	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69100	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, as you've seen, there's been a misdemeanor, but it must be understood that dual education, as you said, is one of the models. It's true that these other models are very interesting, and I'm going to give an example today of social science, it's not true that it can't be connected to social sciences. We're going to prom, high school. Please colleagues, really, if they care, listen a little, if they don't have information. So someone finishes high school, wants to study history and wants to be an archivist. What are we doing now? For the prom, he should lay down history and related disciplines and art history and work in high school archivistics. How? We connect archives, we have archivists, we have philanthropology. The largest collection in the Balkans is in our National Library "Radomir Stankovic", which is not a doctor of science. The largest expert in the Balkans. So the state creates an ambience, that's what the minister said, and then we need to know, well, at this age and that beginner. Experience doesn't come in a year. Now he says, "I need, I need, I need." You know how we say that in pedagoggy? A needy pedagogy, and I don't know how. So we need to know how, and in order for me to know how, I need to know the archivistics, I need to know the philosophy, I need to know the heraldics, I need to know the archives, etc. How are we going to train our students? By bringing one archivist, Jaksic from Pančev, who came here yesterday, who knows how to show it, two ministers of mergers and a practical class already in high school we have. We have resources, ladies and gentlemen MPs, we don't have people who want to learn all the time, because, as the minister said, learning is a continuous process, teaching and raising. Who thinks he's learned one profession forever, so come on, we're not in the Middle Ages. Three professions on average every... Well, you've seen the poll results, and retraining is a model. Of course, here we were looking at the artist. Not just in art, even in connection with education. So we all have to study and we can do it. Let's take equal chances, and please don't set this up any more, foreign and domestic companies. For the sake of truth, SNS and Alexander Vukic inherited the country with only 15 days of funding. Please, I have to say it. The state was brought to ruin and now someone tells me – give it to the economy. What the hell did she steal? We had to run foreign companies, hire our people. It wasn't a big salary, but we hired 860,000 workers in five years. He didn't say - said. Check that out, how many were there before Alexander Vukic arrived for Prime Minister and State, and how many are there now. In numbers. We can discuss this, and in the future only people who are constantly learning can do so. It's true that GDP 4, something, but if we had dual education, he'd be 8, right, Mr. Minister? Here, that's the point. Come on, we all have to figure it out, study it. And I'm learning at this age every day, not to say how many hours to step up with my colleagues from Austria, Russia, America, etc. Without it, there isn't. Our porter at every firm has to perfect itself for two hours a day. If someone thinks they created everything with a diploma, well, come on, don't. The employer... Samafor does, what did I do during the day? Did I write a science paper this morning, or did I sit at home, or did I get a 30,000 for the project, so I put it in my pocket or perfected myself. He can't take it anymore. It's just a system that's been built, a science fund for what you're talking about, Mr. Minister, and I'm talking about it specifically now. The train's on its way. You've trained the train. I'm talking to you, and it can make anyone else in the country feel like it. You've trained the train, it's on its way, whoever wants to go in there, who won't have to stay at the station where he is. Here, that's the point. So we all have to study and learn, but we're not all equally valuable. Imagine these opposite us, I apologize, but I must say, they haven't boycotted the assembly now. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning Borko Stefanovic was coming right at 12:30 I have seconds when he was coming, five minutes talking, going to practice in the afternoon. Some of us, God, had to go all day and night to perfect ourselves. Well, we're not the same. I want to compete with him here in politics, and for God's sake, and for science in the second part. That someone thinks one job in life is working, there's no more of that. When they go to Austria, they do two jobs for our people, right? I have students and former students who work two jobs in America. Twelve years a student spent and came back, his father opened a high school firm, 84 workers. You know what he earned? Nothing. Driving a truck, being the best student in college. He says I'm sorry I didn't use what I know here. Yeah, that's the point. That we, as you say, ministers have tools, we just have to use them. It's up to me, to you, to every student, whether or not we will. It's true that it was chaos, I agree with my colleagues. No company worked in 2000, so we know that. Do you know what Zoran Zivkovic suggested in this high house? To shut down Jellyzar Smederev, and let the workers go home. I'll tell you the second he said it. Today, here, look what he's doing. Not to say another. Best to send them home, shut down the companies, here, we good. Robbing companies. That's not the point. We've had to keep these companies... We're in the automotive industry enough one bolt to have, to go into the world process, into it, but also domestic companies, thank God, are the exact same conditions, it's not true that they're not. The exact same conditions, the stimulation is exactly the same. What you're saying is, we stimulate the gifted, but we take care of the extra class and this other one. It is true that we connect knowledge, the world of work and education. We've got archivists, come on, let's hook them up with high school. If they want mathematics to study, they'll be in math and related discipline, then if philosophy, philosophy, sociology, law, here, Dr. Martinovic knows it better than I do. So, in high school, law school and related prom discipline. We move on, but, God forbid, we'll have at least three in our lives. Here, I also worked as a pedagogue, finished teaching, but also history. Who knows, both Latin and Slavic paleography and heraldics, I have to do everything, and every teacher has to be ready. If not, it's best to say I'm a professor, to knock down a student. Anyone can do that. To fight for everyone as if they were our own children. I agree with you ministers, the academic community has most, huge, great people who want to, know and will. Individuals, provokers, well, the train is on its way, so they can stay at the station where they are. You have full support in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69101	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69102	One of the papers in the reform will be seen as early as September 1st, and these are programmes for classes gifted for history and geography. That's it. That's it. That's it. The National Educational Council did the job, the Faculty of History at Philosophy. The reason was, I think the cathedral is stronger, and better defined. The second reason is for geography Belgrade geographically because it is truly the oldest tradition, and that part of the experiment has been done. So, what you're saying is, there's going to be a larger number of gymnasiums covered, just to make social science more developed, and there's going to be a variety of related interdisciplinarys and special programs related to history, rhetoric, many areas, archivistics, what you're talking about, but that part of the job except historians and geographers will have both philosophers and sociologists and others.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69103	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69104	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, training children from the start of school, so from primary school, through high school to higher education, we have seen in recent years, is exactly the priority of the government of Serbia, enabling faster and easier employment, enabling contact with companies that are interested in professional staff. Accordingly, we also go to the development of the economy in general throughout Serbia, and when the economy develops we have new jobs, then we start a whole cycle where we open up opportunities for new young people who will be educated and who will be employed in Serbia. Education and education is certainly the basis for involving young people in all other areas of society, in every segment of society. We must view everything as a whole, as a great mechanism in which each screw is important, in which education plays a very large role. Certain needs on the market exist and on the one hand, the dual education we discussed today will respond to some needs, but on the other hand, children will be able to acquire theoretical knowledge, but more importantly in secondary education, in secondary vocational education children will be able to acquire practical knowledge that will allow them to work the next day. They will get a job and stay in Serbia with their families and friends. That's what the Serbian government's intensities are. We do not want young people to leave, but to stay and work with us to make it better in Serbia. We strive for a safer, more financially stable country, where everyone can find a place to live and work. The question has been asked whether education is ready to follow modern development. It may not be absolutely ready to monitor modern development, but it certainly is. Is there little we've done? What were the conditions in Serbia for implementing any reform of education by 2012? That's what we all remember, and we all know how many young people left the country during that period. We have to work on it anyway to make things better. No one said anything was ideal. We are always seeking an even better situation in Serbia, in every area and in every respect, but we are not in bankruptcy, investments are coming in, new jobs are opening up, salaries are safe, pensions are also safe, and Serbia should be a country where young people want to stay alive and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69105	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Dual Education. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Comrade Savik, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this member of the 1st Law speaks of the fact that, in addition to specialist education, there should also be master's education and education with work that lasts for two years. In principle, I agree with that, it should stand out, but the bottom line is not whether it was a specialist, mastery or a two-year-old education, the fact is that less and less people, less and less students, are increasingly young people showing interest in such occupations. If we know what our education is like, it's not surprising, everyone's chasing today, it's harder for those professions whose names sound nice, and whether there's some point or some quality behind it, it doesn't matter, it's important that it sounds nice. Everyone wants to be some managers and something like that, and today or not to stay in high school but to study and end something more legitimate, but it's been contributed to the fact that it's never been easier to get to a diploma before. We know how to get a diploma. We have a lot of private ones, and we also had a situation at some state colleges that came to the diploma by the cash and carry system -- buy and carry. Literally, it is important to make payments properly working, workers, seminar work. We have that many students passed their exams without even seeing the professors. We have, on the other hand, examples where some officials had diplomas, and they didn't know the exact name of the acquired calling or the exact name of the university or the university. These are all the things that led to no one wanting to go, or a small number wanting to go into this profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69107	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69108	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Dual Education are eliminated certain shortcomings observed during the current application of this law, all with the aim of improving the development of dual education since the next school year, i.e. from school 2020/2021. The amendments and additions to this law define more clearly the difference between practical teaching and professional practice, which are defined by the Law on secondary education and education and learning through work, which is defined by the Law on dual education. It is defined that practical teaching and professional practice is achieved at school, is achieved in the employer or combined in accordance with the plan and learning programme of up to 25%, while learning through work takes place exclusively with the employer, in accordance with the Dual Education Act, ranging from 20% to 80% of the professional course fund. The amendments and additions to the Dual Education Act include state institutions as employers in this system and are in this case the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. The level of student safety in the process of learning through work is also rising. According to these amendments and additions, the employer is obliged to provide prescribed safety measures, health at work, as well as the application of rules governing dangerous child labour. Also, the employer is obliged to provide insurance for student injury when learning through work. The changes and additions are explicitly prohibited from working nightly through 22 hours to 6 in the morning. It also specify the composition of a commission that determines the fulfilment of the conditions for learning through the work of the employer. The amendments and additions also define that if a student is not allowed to learn through working in a dual model, the school is obliged to allow that student to continue his education in accordance with the Law on Middle Education and Education. Also, the changes will allow for enrolment for students of eight classes before the final exam is passed, and this paper aims to promote a dual model, as dual education represents Serbia's future and depends on the country's overall development. Also, through dual education, students gain the necessary knowledge and skills and thus become more competitive, becoming more employable. Young people get lonely early and start making their own families early. Students receive a monthly remuneration of 70% of the minimum labour price paid by the employer all the time through work, i.e. through schooling and learning through work. Serbia's countries lack many professions such as plumbers, welders, locksmiths and many other types of craftsmen, and therefore we have to work continuously to improve dual education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69109	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69110	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, we certainly need to worry about the future of our children and our young people, and dual education is exactly a step towards this, because these changes and additions will solve many issues that will directly affect the quality of dual education in our country, as adopting such a law will also contribute to increasing the efficiency of education in our country and increasing the number of participants in education, also in self-integration of the education system. It will also improve the education system and restore the confidence of young people in institutions, which is very important. Maintaining, and in addition to constantly improving our country's education system is not an easy job and it takes a lot of effort, because when we look at 1,200,000 participants in the education system, when we talk about young people who attend any degree of education, then we realize how much effort it takes to keep this system adequate and, on the other hand, to improve. In order for dual education to work properly, investment in the economy is also necessary, and our Government of the Republic of Serbia has certainly made a great effort to invest permanently in the economy, because it certainly does everything it can to improve the economy in our country. As a primary priority and the primary goal of this government is to invest in young people and open opportunities for all young people to be educated for future affairs, to succeed in gaining new skills, and that is only possible through dual education, i.e. learning through work. If we take into account that 7,000 students are involved in dual education and in over a hundred schools to conduct dual education, we understand that the results of dual education in our country already exist, and this is for every commendation, so I must stress that for several years we have a visible model of dual education and that the model of dual education is adapted to the needs of our economy, economy in our country, and these changes and additions will certainly directly affect the improvement of co-operation and education systems, on the one hand, and businesses, on the other hand, i.e. the integration of sciences with the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69111	We're moving on with our work. The SNS parliamentary group has spent its time under the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69112	Mr. Minister, we have suggested that other republican authorities be included, not only the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Defence, because we Serbian radicals believe that the capacities of military and police education should be strengthened, but it is very important for other ministries to be involved in what is necessary for the education of young people. No one is during this debate, I suppose you know this data, mentioned the fact that over 5,000 people who have been educated in agriculture in Serbia today have no job, the abandoned Serbian highest quality ornanica, the entire municipalities devastated when it comes to agriculture, and you are here talking about foreign investors all the time, some of them need craft capacities, as in other countries, as in Germany, and you are not looking at our yard, that domestic agricultural production is in such a situation that the whole parts of Serbia are absolutely abandoned. I don't know what that can compare with. With some really cataclysmic situation. When you go across Serbia, where it is obvious that there is no stock at all, no production of what has been produced in these fields for decades, and you don't think about increasing the value of this country? Now imagine how many acres of unprocessed agricultural land there are, times a certain number of money that can yield per hectare for a particular culture. You have unemployed people, people in the field of livestock, vegetables, fruit growing, and now you from SNS are talking about the dual education model, creating craftsmen for the factories that you brought in and giving them 10,000 euros for each job, and you are failing what is the national value, which is the country from which new income is created. No one in their right mind can accept that and understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69113	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69114	Two years ago, when you passed this Law on Dual Education here, we Serbian radicals were against passing such a law, and then we presented a series of arguments that we believed were really the real reasons why such a law should not have been passed. We also went through a principle debate two days ago and today through this debate on amendments we have repeated a lot. What is interesting is that a few days ago, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, at a conference or in a direct address on television, says the results of the application of the Law on Dual Education are impressive and employers are extremely pleased. I think she literally said it like this. Now I'm asking -- how can someone be a fan of the vango to know what the results are and how impressive the results are in the application of the law, or dual education, actually applied since this school year? The school year is not yet over, and someone knows how impressive or not impressive the results are and how happy employers are. There may be truth in this that employers are satisfied, because they have indeed come to an even cheaper workforce than the one they usually get cheaply in Serbia, when they bring their plants here for 10,000 euros per job. This law, in fact, has been brought in to please, as well as everything you bring, to please foreign investors and your various European palos. But it's interesting why at all, Minister, I end up, Arsic, in this sentence, why you've decided to change this law in the first place, why you haven't waited at least one school year to see any more experiences, and now you've thought about changing something, essentially nothing. And this law should never have been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69115	National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69116	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have submitted, we are asking for the amendment of Article 4 of the concrete position 2, where we are looking for an increase in the deadline for the delivery of a declaration of willingness to include the employer in dual education, because we believe that the system of dual education is new and for most employers and teachers, students and associates, and that this is why it is necessary to leave the deadline as far as possible for all participants to be involved in dual education in an adequate manner. When this Dual Education Act was adopted, we from the SRS sharply criticised the proposed solutions, because we believe that such a model is still unacceptable for Serbia, because the economy is not yet at that level that it can support this model. Dual education is the only advantage, if you can say it's an advantage, is employment. High schools and vocational schools offer much more, and this is precisely a broad education, and if a job, at some point, becomes a technological surplus, that is, if the need for a particular profession ceases, not only does this person run out of work, but for no reason does she sacrifice much more, and she primarily sacrificed her extensive education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69117	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69118	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr Minister, here with this Article 6, it is the way in which they are elected, or proposed by the members of the Committee to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for work, or for learning through the work of the employer. Now, a whole range of professions and professions has been proposed, and I'm only going to name some. Well, let's say, it's chosen from the ranks of educational advisors, from the order of external associates, from the ranks of educational inspectors, and I say again, once again, it's not disputed. So these are all institutions that are most directly related to education and they should give their representatives. I asked my amendment that they too, so teachers who have already had these few years of experience in working with dual education, that they too have the opportunity to propose from their ranks the members of this committee that we are talking about. I submitted a number of amendments to a whole set of educational laws, but I was convinced that the government would at least accept this amendment. It is a dual education one new area, a relatively new area, for the last few years, three, four years, it doesn't matter how many, but a certain number of educators have experience with this. And I think that this dame would also deserve, and that it should be in this commission and some other commissions and working bodies that are related to dual education, that they too have the opportunity to give their representatives in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69119	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Dual Education, for which the state has defined itself in addition to some similar things that we had the opportunity to meet earlier, carries quite a few strangers, because we do not have enough experience in applying this law, because the law is relatively brief, more precisely than last year. And the experiences of others, such as Austria, Hungary, Germany or Switzerland, do not have to be automatically applied in our educational space, because Serbia is not a country of developed economies and economies, such as the countries listed above. Education is a cumulative activity, a work that conveys knowledge and values to young people, and any change must be well measured, thought-out and very carefully realised. It's more dangerous in education than in other areas to represent things differently than they really are. Suitable and beautiful paintings do not drink water, especially in education institutions, which must be the main levers of the modernization of society. It is particularly a question of what will be the relationship between culture, economy, politics and education, which is related to this kind of education. It seems to me that educational institutions are not the only ones that acquire knowledge and values. More and more of us are clapping knowledge from the social environment, the media, the online election. It is necessary to investigate whether formal education has a crucial impact on the design of a world view and the style of life of young people. The proposal for a law on dual education is not about the issue of law enforcement, because I have already said, this law is almost applicable. In its adoption in 2017 it was known that there would be parallelity in the existence of a classic model found in the same educational profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69121	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69122	Mr. Minister, we would just like to appeal to you and your associates not to be clapped by "Ode of Joy" about dual education in Serbia. We don't want to take away your right to good intentions. Maybe that's how it's gonna be later. This need, which is now a problem, has found us unprepared. For years, we haven't been able to recognize what the market is looking for, we haven't educated the staff who might be able to respond to the necessary tasks, and then we have what we have now, that the one whose education doesn't require a lot of money and maybe not even the top professional people, we don't have it, we miss it. Serbia is not just an exception to that. This happens in other countries that are much more developed. Here, now that you are going into this experiment, you should constantly follow and someone who runs the Ministry of Education, I'm sure you have special people, who are in charge of dual education, to recognize the needs that will take place in five, six years, and at one point, and my colleague Mircic spoke exhaustively, in detail, and, I would say absolutely correct, we may be left by these foreign partners now or by people who are directly investors in Serbia because of the unexpected gain of their capital, to leave Serbia. What about the people we trained for that? The state also has a social character and must also be socially responsible. Market behaviour is working, and no matter what we want to do with it, we need to recognize what it will take in 10 years. Try to do it. Mr. Minister, I would take the opportunity to ask one, two questions light and short. As for vacation, I'm talking about elementary and high school, this is something different now than it was before, the second part of the semester, the second part of the class is much shorter, is it going to reflect negatively on students who graduate from elementary school and high school? Another question, since there are many abandoned schools in Serbia, I mean facilities where there are no more students, are you planning something? (President: Thank you, colleague Peric.) I'm sorry, Arsic, I'll be right back. The biggest shame is that it's standing there and it's falling apart. A colleague Stojmirovic was saying... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-22-0.u69123	Thank you, colleague Perich. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed our search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10:00.
