ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2019	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will ask one question to the new Minister of Construction about the construction and reconstruction of a piece of the road in the part of the Malcanic loop. It is part of the highway that leads from the highway to eastern Serbia via Svrljag, Književec, Zaječar, towards Negotin, towards Prahovo. Otherwise, that part of the Malcanic loop, which I've talked about several times and asked for it to be done, that's where public lighting is to be done, to light up. In a conversation with the director of "The Way of Serbia" in early 2020, Mr. Drobnjak, I was then given some assurances, that this part of the road will be done, finished, i.e. lit, that this part of the road around the Malcanic loop will make another crossing to Niška Banja, because now that this new highway to Niško Banja is open, there is no way. That's why there's this part of the Malcanic loop over the Prosecution has opportunities and a keporium was made, only the expropriation of the country has to be done. Otherwise, the project exists, and it should be done. My question - will it be done during the next 2021? One of the same things about all of us who travel this part of the road across that main road towards eastern Serbia is those who want to go to Nis, but they can say that Nis as the centre of southeastern Serbia is the center of all activities, all of us, in Nis is the Clinical Center that is now established, that a large number of our citizens from all over eastern Serbia are coming to be treated there, to finish something of their own, there is also a airport, and not to go across the highway, to pay for these road crossings, it would be good, and that is another question of mine - will it be possible for the Ministry of Construction and Traffic along with the Mayor Nisa, to reconstruct that part of the road from Malcanic loop to Knjaževska Street? Otherwise, the length of that road is about six kilometers. The jurisdiction is the city, or local self-government, but on the other hand there is a great need for the state of Serbia to be done, because there is a very high frequency of traffic, because there are also needs because a large number of economic operators there operate, works, employs people, and for all of us who come this part of the road to eastern Serbia towards Nis, and we don't want to go across the highway, this part of the road should be done as soon as possible, as quickly as possible. Mr. Drobnjak, when I was with him at the meeting, promised it would be done in 2020, but because of the crown situation, the pandemic problem, I expect it to be done in 2021. Another of these things is that the part of the highway, or highway from Bulgaria, that goes across Nis towards Belgrade, and other countries, in that part of the road now is the frequency of people coming from these countries in war-affected areas, migrants. There's been an unsettling event in that part of the road that needs to be done, and I'm asking for lighting to be done, and that part of the highway to be illuminated, because a large number of economic operators are employed by a large number of workers. We had a situation on Saturday on Sunday, where 20 migrants went into possession of a private company that works, has a technical checkup, has places to park trucks, buses. They went in there, and there was an impetuous event, because there was a guard who reacted to these people. He didn't know who was coming, he had problems and he used firearms. Normally, he did it to protect himself, because when 15, 20 people don't know how to stop and one man's leg is hurt by ricochet. These are people who want to go through Serbia to the EU, but because of the situation, because there is an area where there are a large number of companies, where there are private houses, there is danger and all the people there have already heard it and are afraid for their safety. Once again, we must all appeal to find the opportunity to help these people in the best way possible. On the other hand, and our fellow citizens living in that area or any other area if there's a situation like this, to use force, we have to defend somehow that it's not appropriate when someone's looking on the side... (President: Thank you, Milia. It's been five minutes. )......................................................................................................... . at home and at our house in my backyard... 10.15 people each of us has to react like that. I think it would be good to find a way to ensure safety and these migrants, to give them humanity, but on the other hand, we have to look out for our people because these people tomorrow, like this gentleman who was protecting his place of residence and where he works, he's had problems and maybe tomorrow he can answer. That's what it's supposed to be... Millie, I said it's over. )......................................................................................................... together, to protect everyone, but our household and our property.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2020	You're no longer part of the SNS parliamentary group, but so is you. Nebojsa Bakarec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2021	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, is very good when the authorities are doing their job, so we can attach ourselves to that information. I will refer to the question I received from the prosecution, because I am there, and you, and I, I have shown it, have received useful information in that answer, so I am now again asking the ToK's notice, from the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime on whether there is, that is legal term, proof of life "prof of Life", for a suspect and inaccessible person who is allegedly in Italy, that is, of course, Jadranka Drinić, current director and co-owner still "Darrekt Media" in a criminal procedure – the abuse of the position of a responsible person in the long term against natural persons and legal person "Darrekt Media"? To remind you, the TOK is in charge of this investigation and because of the suspicion that RTS was damaged by 688 million and only that, since I informed you of that, RTS as a public service has not informed the citizens, despite the information I have provided to them, which you have witnessed, the answer and the prosecution's proceedings throughout this investigation, I have provided them with written information, RTS has not published, I am merely saying that RTS is a public service that pays citizens and I am asking an additional question – is it in the interest of citizens to be informed of the process being conducted for the robbery of RTS? You and I are protecting RTS. Let me get back to this question. Just to remind you, Jadranka Drinić was the director and "Multicoma", now she is only the director of the School's "Darekt Media". TOK says three suspects have been heard, that one is inaccessible, Mrs. Drinic, and that as many as 30 witnesses have been heard, testifying to excellent work and a series of other actions have been taken over by the prosecution, but I must conclude that even after 16 months, Mrs. Drinic as a suspect has not responded to the call of our and Italian authorities. Just to say, an innocent man happily cooperates with the authorities to take his suspicions off himself. This is new information that's useful to us all, so we know. Jadranka Drinic's lawyer and Darekt Media Zdenko Tomanovic made a public statement 16 months ago that his client, I quote, "Jadranka Drinic has no reason not to answer the call," and yet she did not respond after 16 months to the call from the authorities. So I also refer that question to Zdenko Tomanovic. But here comes the next problem – We do not know if Mrs. Jadranka Drinić is alive. We want her alive, we take care of people, and we're worried, I'm sure everybody, about her safety as a witness and the defendant, and that's why I'm asking the prosecution this question. Just to keep an eye on it. The Mafia usually liquidates, let me tell you, witnesses like this. The main benefit of the disappearance and non-occurring Jadranka Drinić can only have the master Maynd of this entire operation I'm talking about, which is, of course, Dragan Djilas. Let me remind you, he has a long history of verbal and physical, or family violence. The fact that she's in real serious danger is what she's talking about next. Former brother-in-law Dragan Gilas was arrested and convicted for smuggling 2.4kg of cocaine. A co-worker closest to Dragan Gilas and his party official, and from Kursumlija, was arrested for smuggling 66kg of marijuana, yet his best friend and closest associate of Gilas's vice president, Mrs Tepic, was arrested for a series of crimes, holding 1.4kg of intoxicated drugs, trafficking in dangerous substances, explosive substances, weapons. Her closest associate said she asked him to move out of Pančev's journalist Mica Milakova, which is pure fascism. So you can see that my doubts and concerns about the fate of Jadranka Drinić were established. This is what we ask Drana Gilas – Dragana Dilas, is your former director Jadranka Drinić alive, can you do to help the competent authorities to get in touch with them, to give her statement and to be heard? We're asking him, and is there any evidence that she's even alive? We want to help Jadranka Drinic, we want to help our judiciary. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2022	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2023	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia. Although the Republic of Serbia, in spite of everything, is seeking to improve relations with both Albanian negotiators in KIM and the Republic of Albania, on the contrary, it is increasingly a rhetoric that does not contribute to improving relations or resolving open issues. Kosovo Albanian leaders are constantly coming from harsh provocations and threats that highlight their aspirations to capture not only parts of our territory, but also our centuries-old history and culture. What concerns are exactly the same, and more frequent demands and statements by officials of the Republic of Albania. It can be said that it is a rapacious, organised attack and provocation by Albanians who cancel all attempts by Serbia and its state leadership, headed by Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic, to continue dialogue and come to a peaceful solution, to which Serbia is always ready. To remind, the open question of KIM, despite the fact that more than 250,000 Serbs have been expelled from their centuries-old hearths, that many have been killed in various yellow houses and that many are still missing persons, that children have been murdered, houses burned down and monasteries and broken crosses from Serb churches, today we have the Albanian side's claim that this is Albanian heritage. The latest example of falsifying Serbia's cultural history is an attempt to claim the rest of the Orthodox church near Serbia's Suvo Grlo, which was just destroyed. Even more serious threats that the media are writing about these days are statements by Albanian President Ilir Meta, who declared Medvedja, our municipality in southern Serbia, Albanian territory, in this accusing Serbia of so-called. Displacement of Albanians from that environment, referring to the passiveisation of their residences. Such statements represent direct interference in Serbia's internal policy, and aspirations to parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia are obvious here. What's the truth? In the municipality of Medvedja, some 7.1% of Albanians live in the census and estimates of the number of residents in which the international community participated. These are Albanian natives with whom Serbs and other residents of Medvedje live well. Secondly, the Albanian minority in Medvedja is often in the elections and has its representatives in the municipality, has classes in its own language, its language benefits in official communications. But in Medvedja, a large number of Albanians who have never lived in Medvedja reported in a very short period of time to fictitious addresses. At some addresses, 30 people were reported, but they never lived there. The addresses were once failed and unconditional rural houses where no one had lived for decades. Multiple administrative checks have been carried out under the law and none of these addresses have ever found any reported Albanian, not even to receive ballots. They're not registered in any electricity distribution, not in the IRS, not in the catastro. They obviously came to change the ethical picture of the Bear, not that the Bear was changing the ethical attitude of the population by their pasivation. But it was supposed to fit the bear into a fictional geographical area called the Preshove Valley, and there's no valley anywhere. Another obvious aspirations towards Serbia's territory are statements by some Albanians that Albania is to Nis, offering to build a Skenderbeg monument in Medvedja and Nis. Another event does not leave us indifferent, which is that on the Google map the athletic stadium in the center of the Kingdom is suddenly called the Giuradja Kastriot Skenderbeg stadium in Albanian. We're wondering if this is a mistake or an intention? To remind me how many times in the last months, Albanians have taken the Serbian cultural heritage to KIM and Serbian Orthodox saints, trying to falsify history and to embezzle Serbian saints from the period of Nemnjević prove that they built it in the 12th, 13th and 14th centuries. It seems that Albanians in the whole Balkans are holding passwords – if you don't have your own, take someone else's. That is why I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia – as it is the statements of the highest officials of the Republic of Albania, which clearly see aspirations towards our territories and history, blocking any attempt and the goodwill of Serbia to continue the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, and this is also a harsh and inadmissible diplomatic precedent, I ask if the Government of the Republic of Serbia plans to undertake certain diplomatic activities to prevent Serbia from insulting and affecting our state sovereignty and territorial integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2024	Thank you. Apropo of what you said to Mr. Stevic, about Medvedja, since I was the interior minister in the period they mention, I just want to remind everyone that this is the period immediately after receiving visa liberalisation. When we received daily criticisms and threats from the EU that they would lift our visa liberalisation because of the fake residences and false papers that Albanians with KIM are getting, and they are getting them by reporting ten and twenty Albanians with KIM at an address in Medvedja. With all this in mind, we have been in control of the European Union's order and have practically wiped out these false dwellings. That everyone knows, and not that now Albanian politicians, and that should be reminded of the European Union, this is about false statements about residences. Why? Because they could not travel across Europe, because visa liberalisation, unfortunately, was not valid for the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, because even then they had no Western countries that recognised Kosovo's independence, but they did not allow them to travel through their countries, because they had no confidence in the legal system and that they met the conditions for visa liberalisation. I thank you for starting this issue, because it is now current, every other day, I don't know how much you can follow, but Albanian officials from both Pristina and Tirana are asking the European Union, the Council of Europe and everything else, that we are doing a change of ethnic structure on purpose. So, not only is that not true, but rather, there have been attempts, and it wasn't just in Medvedja, to be clear, there have been such cases in Belgrade, there have been such cases in Prokuplje, there have been such cases in Meroshina, etc. I apologize for what I said, but I think it's part of that clarification you asked for. Since there are no more applications under Article 287, we move on. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan M. Markovic, Dr. Vesna Ivković and Justina Pupin Koscal. We continue a unique search on the 19th agenda – Proposal for a decision to adopt codes of conduct of the Members of Parliament. Since we practically crossed half the list yesterday, next is MP Milenko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2025	Thank you, Mr. President. I would take the chance first of all to the colleagues, but also to all citizens who celebrate Christmas Day today, and tomorrow on the Gregory calendar, to congratulate this holiday and to wish that the holiday of Christ's birth brings peace, happiness and prosperity to their homes. We are yesterday from colleagues who have long heard some things about the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia in the assembly benches, from Mr Ristic, Mr Arsic, Mr Zarko Obradovic. Some of these topics go back to the last century, not just in previous mandates. This is important, first of all, because of the younger colleagues, to hear about what the Assembly looked like and how the Assembly worked while it was being guided by those who teach us today what democracy is, how democracy should function, what is parliamentaryism and where everything we do wrong, and they were so wonderful and so great. So, I won't look much at that part, but I will repeat that we have had the situation that this parliamentary majority is made up of people who are currently critical of this code, although they haven't even read it, took away 40 and some of the mandates of the Democratic Party of Serbia and inserted new MPs, so the Assembly had 290 and some MPs in its assembly. Then they refused to implement the Constitutional Court's decision to return these mandates, etc. That it's the same majority that threw a whole assembly of SRS out of this room. It wasn't just those who weren't at this point in this room that got them kicked out of the session, they didn't like how they discussed it or what. As they beat up Mr. Djukanovic, you also know very well how they beat up MPs when the cameras were turned off, Mr. Arsic spoke about it yesterday. So, like in cowboy movies, the door closes, lights go out, so who gets there. The only difference is that here and the cameras turn off, just so no one can see it. So, it was about a picture of parliamentaryism in their time and it's proof why, of course, everyone can talk about anything, we're a democratic and normal society, but they don't have the legitimacy to talk about how parliament should function and what parliamentaryism is and what democracy is. Yes, they voted on Bojan Pajtic in the Assembly, though in the other building, waved some plane tickets and taxi bills to the alleged Neda Arnerić, because she managed for a short time to cross a very large mileage, but Bojan Pajtic explained it nicely to the details. Now the same Bojan Pajtic, which from Twitter, which from certain shows on Gilas' media, is giving lessons on how parliamentaryism should function. I'm saying again, it's his right to talk about it, but he has absolutely no legitimacy for it. What this code has not in any way regulated, and in reality no act can be more imaginative than life and legislator whatever act it has written in life will appear some new moment, it is also the invention of this group that started somewhere, let's say, in 2005, which is that they don't come to sessions and take salaries. So they did it in one part of the previous term, but that invention has been going on for some time. With this really being a question of morality more than a question of the code. But again, there is a question of the legitimacy of those who criticize us, who have been taking salaries here neatly, and have not come to work. What we have to deal with in the next period, one way or another, and what's the problem, that's reality politics. Today we live in a time to reality politics and your previous mandate is about proof of what a realistic policy looks like. I was not in the Serbian Parliament in the previous term, I was in the Vojvodina Assembly for the past eight years, but some people in the Vojvodina Assembly acted in the same way as their parties did in the Serbian Parliament. According to some information from people who have been able to watch and listen to events in the previous meeting, one of the MPs, Bosko Obradovic has been through this Assembly always accompanied by a cameraman, who regularly followed everything he does to publish it on social networks, in order to publish it on Twitter, on YouTube channels, etc. When you start to deal with reality politics, you need to reality events. You can see in this session today, people who are a little more experienced in this business can easily see who is who is talking to the tide, who is talking to the citizens, and who is about to send a message to the media – here I am, here you see me, passing on what I was saying. It is not difficult to find and it is very easy in every speech of each MP very easily to discover. But what's the problem, that's what this realistic policy has led to violence, has led to this same MP sitting in front of the cameras shooting at the computer other MPs, specifically a colleague of Martinovic, who, and I admire it, rose above that situation, because I don't know who would react like that, did not go down to Bosko Obradovic's level, although it's hard to get down to that level. On the other hand, this realistic policy has brought us a rock into the Assembly, a rock for cabbage, according to Marijan Rističević. This reality policy has brought guitar into the Assembly. This reality policy has led them to wave some flags while the session is being held, to play and tamble while the anthem is intonated. This reality policy has led to an incident being caused, that it is trying deliberately to pass through, even though the door, as you can see, is on all sides. So, in order to make some kind of incident, there's some kind of situation that's gonna get you in the media tomorrow. That, Mr. Martinovic, is something we're going to face. You and I are here for generations. In a different way, politics used to be learned, books were read, shows were monitored, speeches were followed by some people you wanted to listen to, so you're from both political opponents and those you support stealing some tricks and ways of exposure. Today, unfortunately, we also have some new generations learning politics on the Internet, learning politics on YouTube, new generations that, I don't want to say they don't read anything, but they read much less, but in any case, they're generations that make lives in shops, make events out of nothing, and it's more important to make an event than to deal with politics and talk about politics. That's why those people I talked about at the beginning completely slipped out of politics, into reality, into Twitter, into something that didn't, they gave up politics, they don't have political content anymore, and now it's their main question of how and how to stop MPs in this society from talking about what they think they should talk about. In this context, we are looking at these criticisms that were read yesterday and that was referred to yesterday by the President of the Assembly, because it was not, Mr Dacic, said only yesterday, that information you had 10 days ago in one of their tabloids, the daily tabloid "Today", where they are asking questions and shouting and moaning why MPs can't criminally answer for what they say in this room. For those who do not know, therefore, the immunity of the MP has been established because the government would not have that immunity, it could always do exactly what they did in another way, the repression, the arrest of MPs you don't like, and then you can prove in the process, sit in custody until we let you go, and how we're going to do and what we're going to do for that time is our business. Those who have done so by taking away their mandate, by kicking out of the O.R., etc., but obviously that the model of conduct has not changed, that they continue to think about how to introduce a verbal delinquent here and how to become punishable if the court says it should not be mentioned, some in some applications call it the NN face, called the head and beard Dragan Gilas. I would understand that, and frankly, I would probably also tell my colleagues that there's really no need to deal with a man who would participate in the elections and that he participated in the elections, and the question of whether he would enter this hall if that same man on his media hadn't been talking for 24 hours about people who aren't there either. Twenty-four hours last week, they were dealing with Marko Atlagic for a few days, and I didn't see Mark Atlagic on those shows respond to why they're accusing him. Twenty-four hours they were dealing with Ambassador Kebar, but I didn't see him being invited there to answer something, and twenty-four hours, seven days a week dealing with Alexander Vukic and his family, and they never invited him to say anything and to answer. Well, you know, when you make a certain precedent, and they've done the precedent in the previous term, and I'll remind you, Mr. Martinovic, you correct me if I'm wrong, that mandate started like those mob deals when they announce over the media what they're going to do to each other, and then they announced through the media that they're going to show now that they're going to get into the Assembly what's going to happen, right, and then they went barefoot in that assembly. At each meeting, they only dealt with Alexander Vukić who was not in the O.R. alone. Well, how come when you're dealing with a wolf who's not in the O.R., it's working, and when someone mentions Gilas who's not in the O.R., that's not right. Do you see any illogicality? Do you see anything wrong with that? Either we make Gilas a sacred cow, or in this case it would be a male cow, which must not be mentioned, whose name cannot be pronounced. So, you can't ask a question, excuse me, buddy, where did you get the property that you reported 20 million euros yourself? How come you're just asking yourself in business, and that's how it started when it became power? So you can't ask a question. Why? That's why. He doesn't know why, but he said Gilas can't. It's like in that wet summer movie -- he told his friend Tito not to watch TV and not to watch TV. When Comrade Tito says the students are right, then you can watch TV, so is this. When Comrade Gilas says he can do something, then he can, when Comrade Gilas says he can't, we can't mention him. Little do they have 24 hours of making shows about how the congregation is like this and like this, but now they're going to give us what we need to talk about and how we should speak in this congregation. Our speeches and our politics will be judged by the people, just like theirs, and in that sense they can be completely relaxed, the people will say what they think of them and about us. They're the ones who brought into politics the things that have never happened in this assembly, they're the ones who put attacks on children, they're the ones who put them into the threat policy of violence. Imagine if some SNS MP said we'll chase you down the streets, as Jovo Bakic said. I mean, well, I don't know what Jovo Bakic would do and get someone, but anyway, it's a threat, or you'll float to Sava and Dunava. Imagine now that someone is speaking to the opposition and speaking to them, you will float to Saul and to the Danube. Those are their words to us. Every day, every one of us gets a sea of threats, and here, yesterday some idiot sends me, says, "You won't escape." My friend, here's what I'm gonna do, I'm not gonna run anywhere, and you try to get to me, try to do what you're up to, I'm just asking you to try to make it from the first, because if you fail from the first, I wouldn't be in your skin, and I hope we understand each other. So these are about the things they have brought into Serbia's political life, but they are here to tell us that parliament should look, and you have shown last time how you experience both parliament and parliamentaryism and fighting for your ideas if you have them for anything else at all. The only thing they did constantly and the only thing they had to do was protect their tycoons' businesses in politics or outside of it, and that was the only thing they were interested in. So this code is going to solve a lot of things, it can't solve something that's the spirit of the time we live in, and that's the reality of politics. Some things may be reduced to a lower degree, some things will be more bearable, but to reality the policy of entering stone and similar nonsense, it's really hard to go, for the simple reason that this is due to the time in which we live, and then, we had little of our own, so Bosko Obradović brought Pernar to the Assembly, few of our fools, but to import fools from Croatia, to further spice up political life. It is indeed something that has become a picture throughout the region, therefore, and in the parliament in Croatia, the parliament of Montenegro, the parliament of Republika Srpska, therefore, everywhere these reality politicians are appearing all day long. They always turn the phone around and carry what they're doing all day long. It's something we're going to have a problem with in the next period, but it's not the subject of an interest code, nor can that code be fixed. That's what I'm sorry about, but it's going to wait for you for some future generations, to some extent, we're already slowly in a position of some political dinosaur that will slowly on a deserved holiday and on a cost, but how will you younger with you to cope I don't know. What you must know and what is a message to all who are following this session, you will never ban SNS from saying, you will never ban SNS MPs from fighting for the policy they believe in, you will never ban SNS MPs from defending and showing respect for Alexander Vukic as president of the state and party president, you will never bring so far as to get our heads down from worse than us and look at the floor, and we will never accept that you who have kicked people out of here, that you who have taken mandates, that you who have defended tycoons, who have used the assembly to bring tycoons of laws, that you can legally rob this country, hold lessons. We don't care about those lessons. Keep them to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2026	Thank you. The next is MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2027	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, we had opportunities during yesterday to hear the presentations of fellow Members of the People's Parliaments who were excellently explaining the motion for a decision, especially my colleague Nevena Đuric, who indeed accurately and taxively cited what the text of the code looks like and we had the opportunity to hear what the situation in the Assembly was like in previous meetings. I feel free to say, when it comes to this text of the code, that we will be able to make a good difference between politicians and politicians thanks to him. For those who don't know, politicians are nadripolitics, politicians in an attempt or, more simply, people who deal with politics for personal gain. Now, add to what 619m euros in revenues someone has made by performing a public function, add to that more suspicious donations that are received to their citizens' association by people around the world of whom some convicted criminals and many other things, then you know what I'm talking about. We had opportunities, too, in the previous days to hear these same people, that is, through their speakers and extended hands, criticizing the code whose texts they had not even seen yet, so they immediately criticised how the criminal provisions of that code entail high fines for MPs, and then, when the text came out, we see that there are no such provisions in fact and then they changed the record and then they began to criticise -- well, why is there no such punishments? See, that's politics. According to their policy, money can end anything, or their philosophy is that the money spins where the burgion won't. At Gilas's opposition, which is getting weaker every day, because, as we can see, they are arguing more and more, these findings and these criticisms that they are making are actually some kind of auto projection, namely what kind of code they would introduce in this Assembly and how they would actually organize the work of the Assembly itself, and of course the code would be named by their leader - Gilas Code. You see, a policy in which you say that everything that is not in your will, that it is not good and that you say that it is an injustice I call "kalymer" politics. Unlike them, whose political philosophy is based on the fact that Gilas's world is nice, we do not adopt the code here because of us, because, as we could see, from the moment this Assembly was established that absolutely MPs adhere to what is written here in the code, there were a few exceptions, but which will no longer be, but this code is important because of the further promotion of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, above all for the future convocations that will be. All of what my colleagues, primarily senior colleagues with greater political experience, have described as happening in this assembly hall, will no longer happen by applying this code. I had the opportunity to look over small screens and, unfortunately, to get a very bad impression of the policy that is happening here, primarily thanks to politicians like Bosko Obradovic, Mike Aleksic, Marinika Tepic, Saša Radulovic, Srdjan Nog and others from Djilas and Jeremic's svit, who made every effort to use this Assembly to embarrass themselves first, and of course the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With this code, which we are discussing, which I am sure, in the day of voting, we will all prevent more abuse of the position of the MP, namely that the MPs are doing their job safely and in the way it says in the law and in other regulations, that actually the function of the MPs does not end up leaving this building, but she follows the MP wherever he is at any time, as long as his term of office, which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have entrusted him with in the elections. There will be no more scenarios to enter a rock for cabbage, whistles, vests, to open the door with legs, poles, to defile the symbols of this country as one instrument of showing hate, to show their stupidity. They won't be able to charge any more travel expenses without sitting in this hall, not doing the job of citizens' representatives, getting paid for it, and misusing microphones in the Assembly to do their promotion, not doing the work for which citizens chose and appointed them, actually being representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With this code, we also send a message to future generations, young people, that politics is not politics, as the Gilasovians tried to identify in the period they were sitting here, and that for young, ambitious people, people who are full of energy, ideas and desires to fight for the Republic of Serbia and their citizens and local communities, and that there is room in these assembly benches to do this job safely. With this decision, we will also prove by our actions and work that the only philosophy that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia support is to be good for everyone, and that is the philosophy represented by Alexander Vukic's politics and the policy he leads. In the end, I would just add that when it comes to the criminal provisions that they are criticizing and asking why there are no financial penalties, there is really no need for any more severe penalties, because, ultimately, it is the citizens who certainly see everything that is going on in the Assembly, everything that is going on in the field. They are the ones who ultimately give an assessment in the elections whether MPs and these political parties have done their job in a safe way and whether or not they should, and certainly give an assessment to "calmers" politicians that they are not satisfied with their criteria and that they will not sit in these benches. Even so, in the previous elections, they also got the title of cowardice, because they were not allowed to go to the elections, and I'm sure that even in the coming period for a long time, they will wait long to come here to sit, because the censorship is for them for any research to be done, and also for those who say they were talking about, that they are very far from censors, that for now it's just a mental noun for them, and especially for the lies and performances they carry out both in reality and in the virtual segment they will long wait for them to come here, regardless of whether they went to Brussels, whether they went to Washington or to any other state and its city to sue their country and to seek the support of foreigners and other people to come to power. Once again, it is the citizens who choose their MPs in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2028	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word has a colleague, Djorge Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2029	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today we've been considering the question we've been announcing here in the National Assembly for years. It seems to me that for ten years there has already been an initiative that the Code of Conduct of People's MPs here is being adopted, and today we finally have that issue on the agenda, and I am sure that we will vote on a large majority of MPs to this code. Why is that necessary? Well, you know there's been a negative campaign against the National Assembly for decades. We have the opportunity to see that in the media, the most interesting thing is the cost of coffee in parliament, although, by the way, it is neither more expensive nor cheaper than in other state institutions, or in the cafeterias of these state institutions. Also, there have been various situations we have had in the past, and some MPs here in this high house have contributed to this negative campaign led against this parliament. We've seen rocks here in the National Assembly. Some MPs have introduced various other props, flags of foreign states. Some of them hit Parliament's door with a national flag. We had a really bad picture that went into the world from here, and that's why we want to stop this code from ever having any more of those situations in the next period, because we all need to be aware of the role that parliament has as the most legislative body in one country, and I think that this code will really affect the awareness of MPs in a way that such scenes never happen here again. Again, we say, it is not the purpose of this code of punishment, not of money or anyone else, but of raising awareness that the MP must be aware that he is as the bearer of the sovereignty of the people, as the only bond of the people with authority... So, through the National Assembly, the people exercise influence and thus control both executive and judicial power, and we really want to raise Parliament's reputation, because it is necessary, above all, to raise awareness of the importance of parliament not only of our MPs, but also of the citizens of Serbia, who must be aware of how important it is that this institution works in the right way. We should not be treated here as some extended arm of the executive or voting machine that only serves to vote and vote the law, but indeed as a kind of control body, a control mechanism over other branches of government. When I say that, we had a chance here yesterday to host representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, to talk about human resources in the judiciary, and it's trying to slow down or put aside and say that the National Assembly has no right to affect human resources in the judiciary, because they say -- that's, you know, pressure on the judiciary. I'd remind those long-sellers that in the first year of law school, a student faces a book called Introduction to Law. It teaches that, even in the 18th century, Charles Monteskje divided the authorities into executive, legislative and judicial powers and thus defined the role and the legislative authorities and, therefore, that parliament and that it must play a control role over the judiciary, because it must be ensured that the laws adopted here are really and applied in practice, i.e. prosecutors and judges, therefore, to uphold the law. In this way they tell us from various international addresses that we here need to leave the judiciary to be completely independent of the people, that the judicial authority should judge and judge in the name of the people without being controlled by the National Assembly, because, they say, that is the expression of democracy. The expression is democracy when they ask us, and in their countries, therefore, judges, of course, have control over parliament. It's perfectly normal in the whole civilized world. In all of Europe, therefore, it is normal for one government to control another, thus preventing any government from being above the other two branches of government. So, here today, when we adopt this code, we want to, once again, influence the awareness of all Serbian citizens and all of our MPs in the role this parliament has and I am sure that we will, by a large majority, adopt this code, because we no longer want this parliament to be the site of any situation that will lead to the collapse of the reputation of this institution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2030	Thank you, colleague Dabic. The word has the People's Messenger, Professor. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2031	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected to Dr Martinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is good that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will finally adopt the code of conduct of the MPs. The rules of conduct of the MPs are laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by the oath we made in this high house and, behold, now finally and finally by the code of conduct of the MPs. Dear People's MPs, the post of MP is extremely demanding, extremely difficult and extremely responsible if properly understood and properly carried out. This code was supposed to be passed during the former regime, and it wasn't. It's back to the SNS to bring it back. The values prescribed by this Code are also values in the largest number recorded by pedagogy. They're educational values. For the MP, the truth is above all else, the truth and only the truth. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is why, by one example today in this high house, I will bring one truth out, and there is no force in the world that will stop me from telling the truth, because that is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are looking for. The apostle uses criticism, not criticism. We often see our political opponents as critics. They did not leave this high house for some reason, but for reasons they could not endure in this high house not only criticism, but even physically endure. One MP of the former regime, and today the vice president of one party, was coming at 12:45 p.m., I have notes every day in past councils, 15 minutes of speaking and leaving a high home. It wasn't him, it was most of them. That is why I say that the function of the MP is extremely difficult and responsible if it is properly understood and properly carried out. Insulting the Members of the People is not permitted. So there's one MP in two years, as the MPs of the last call know, I pedanticly, since I don't leave this house often, I record a date, an hour, a minute, a second, so to speak, when someone has offended whom. One MP, and he was also president of one opposition party, in two years 53 times he insulted SNS MPs and National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, calling MPs the ugliest words: monkeys, cattle, bandits, etc. There have also been cases of attempted physical assault by opposition MPs on SNS MPs. The fellow MPs spoke of it yesterday. I have no intention of talking about it. People's MPs, today's distinguished colleagues have started talking, have to control the government's work, and that's one of the main tasks of the National Assembly and individual ministries, so that certain dishonest actions in certain ministries don't happen. As long as we're here, I'll give an example. For example, Minister Vuk Jeremic traveled to 97 countries for five years as foreign minister for a thousand days. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the results of his work were far below zero. I'll prove it here today. For his term, 91 countries recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Right, honourable MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Of course it is. Jeremic spent 36m euros from the Republika Srpska budget during his term of office. He rented private planes and stayed at the world's most luxurious hotels, where one night a thousand euros or dollars were paid. He took on the name of the 55,000-euro daily, which was a second salary. He entrusted the acquisitions of airline tickets to the company, pay attention, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, "Aerob Belgrade", without a written contract being concluded and without public procurement implemented. Imagine. Jeremic made a payment to the "Aeroblus Belgrade" of 42m dinars in 2011. That is exactly 360,000 euros, based on invoices, without a signed contract, without public procurement implemented. This isn't just me, this is what the state institutions say, DRI. So Jeremic broke the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Public Procurement, buying plane tickets from "Aeroblus Belgrade". Pay attention to this "Aeroblub Belgrade". Over five years, while at the Foreign Ministry, he paid 180 million dinars to that club. However, 90% of his revenues, "Aeroblub Belgrade", have been realised in business with Vuk Jeremic. That's the point. "Aeroblub Belgrade" has done everything related to Vuk Jeremic. This is important, the owner of the "Aeroba Belgrade" is a close relative to Jeremic's wife. Aeroblub Belgrade has concluded a contract with the Tennis Alliance of Serbia, pay attention to this, worth 40m dinars, again 360,000 euros. The head of the Tennis Union of Serbia, believe it or not, was Vuk Jeremic. That's how he stole the money. That's how it went out of the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to Mr Jeremic. One plane cost 70,000 euros. The private flight of Belgium-Switzerland-Letonia cost 55,000 euros. Vuk Jeremic, while in charge of diplomacy and later on, was a member of the international group of frauds and thieves. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs Jeremic intervened in the introduction of Emile Lozoja, the Mexican energy tycoon, a close associate and friends, a brother from Harvard, Vuk Jeremic, and former World Rango Hong Kong Minister of Police Patrick Hoo, who was previously discussed by the honourable MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, Marijan Risticevic and other respected MPs. In a 3.5m-euro corruption affair, Emilio Lozoja had numerous business connections while he was headed by the state-owned Pemeks company, Jeremic received $180,000 for allegedly consulting jobs from four companies. Jeremic intervened with the introduction of Lozoia to another world-class criminal, former Hong Kong Police Minister Patrick Ho, who is in the United States, as you know the honourable MPs, convicted of millions of machinations and money laundering. Patrick Ho, former Hong Kong police minister, has been to Jeremic's Belgrade several times as a guest. Patrick Ho is one of Vuk Jeremic's chief finances and his Centre for International Policy and Sustainable Development. In Jeremic's account, it was $4.5 from the phantom energy companies operating with Hong Kong, where his close friends were operated, and his associates arrested, as I said, in the United States. In the period from 2013 to 2017, Jeremic received as much as $7.9m from various suspicious sources. He got $200,000 from Mongolia. Jeremic used his mandate not only for the head of diplomacy, but also for personal wealth later on, and turned Serbia black, proven. And have him deny them publicly on television controlled by him and Dragan Gillas. Firstly, since his arrival at the head of Serbian diplomacy in 2008, Jeremic has advocated that negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija are being transferred from the UN to the EU and thus made it impossible for Russia and China to veto the UN Security Council and thus put a knife in the back of their own state. Is that how the honourable MPs and gentlemen of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are? Secondly, when Kosovo and Metohija's unilateral independence was illegally declared in 2008, Jeremic, Tadic, Djilas and the country did not take any effective measures against Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, although the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has declared Kosovo's unconstitutional declaration of independence unconstitutional. Third, in connection with recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence by the Islamic delegation, Jeremic only voiced disappointment to the organisation's secretary. Fourthly, Jeremic called before the OSCE a unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence a precedent, and appealed to the OSCE calling for Resolution 1244, instead of underlining, instead of a final document from Helsinki in 1975 which explicitly found that the provinces of the Republic of Serbia do not have the right to gain independence. He did it on purpose. I'll tell you in the end why. Peto, Jeremic, then in 2008, missed on purpose to request an emergency session of the UN Security Council for violation of the UN Charter. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, he so deliberately gave up funds to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, Jeremic deliberately kicked out of the proposal for a resolution to the International Court of Justice that, I quote: "A unilateral secession cannot be an acceptable way to resolve territorial issues," the quote concluded. Instead, he introduced the stance on purpose, quotes: "Is the decision of the interim institutions in Pristina to unilaterally declare independence, whether it is in accordance with international law," a quote ended and thus stabbed his own country in the back? Seven, that the issue was deliberately wrong to the International Court of Justice, confirmed these days and a prominent American magazine and international relations "International Interest", which writes, quotes: "That Jeremic made the biggest mistake in 2008 which led to the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence and Metohija not being declared a separatist act". Jeremic asked the International Court of Justice instead, all of it is further quote: "To rule on the legality of this unilateral decision. Instead of asking the International Court of Justice whether it was legal for Kosovo to secede from Serbia, then the International Court of Justice would indeed make a positive decision for Serbia." Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia continue to quote that major forces would then not recognise Kosovo's independence. It's a finished quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, therefore the Shipage leadership celebrates on October 27th each year as the largest date so-called. "The statehood of Kosovo", and Jeremic celebrates every 27 October as the creator of the most important paper in the hands of the so-called "Kosovo's independence". Jeremic continues to harm the Republic of Serbia. Thus, in an authoritative text for the French newspaper "Mond" on 17 June 2018, on the day that President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic visited France, accused the state of Serbia and its president of expanding the stability in the Balkans. Thus, Mr. President of France, Makron, was able to read in "Monda" the ugliest charges at the expense of Serbia and its president. Not only that, Jeremic offended Serbia and its president, Aleksandr Vukic, in the authorial text at "Vashington Post" in 2017, most brutally, ahead of his meeting with US Vice President Michael Pens. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia were then shocked by this non-patriotic act. In a conversation with US envoy Ted Doe, in December 2008, I quote: "Kosovo's entry into the UN is the best that Serbia should hope for," the quote concluded. In June 2005, Vuk Jeremic, in a conversation with associate Milo Djukanovic, his adviser, Rocen, said he had cursed my mother, embarrassed me and quoted me, Serbia, and this one said he was Montenegro. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while Aleksandar Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, engages all his mental and physical efforts and seeks a compromise, permanent and sustainable solution for our southern Serbian province, so long as Vuk Jeremic does everything he does to make Kosovo and Metohija leave the Republic of Serbia. I wanted to see the honourable MPs today what the code of the People's Parliament is and what we need to control. The MPs are obliged to warn such horrors because we have sworn that we will guard and protect KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. MPs should fight for their ideas and attitudes in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not on the street. Respected MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the boycott of parliament and the election is not democracy, and particularly is not parliamentary democracy. But Gilas and his associates never came to power by election. They came to power on the street, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that because Kostunica did not win the election, and Milosevic did not lose because there was no other round of elections. They've come to power violently. The same people violently today want to come to power, and that's why they left this high house. I will now quote Gilas to you, and for Europe, Gilas, how he does it. The same people in the opposition want it today. So Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, after returning from the United States in November 2018, collected these from the Alliance for Serbia and said, quote, pay attention, respected citizens - if we throw out the dialogue from parliament then as a society we have a problem, watch out, quote - that's where the story is, if we stop, if you stop all the media, watch out, he controls them - then he'll explode somewhere, who needs that parliament? , finished quote. Come to your senses-- you finished your quote. So it is he who breaks up this parliament and attacks on parliament and the President of the Republic will be fierce every day, especially on MPs who point to such unholy work. So, as we've seen, they advocate coming to power on the streets of Gilas, for Europe called Gilas. He thus wants to hide his 619m euros. But that's not just me, says his associate Sergei Trifunovic, who says, I'll quote, respected citizens, so you'll see what Mr. Gilas is up to, and for Europe, Gilas, he serves, I quote - Gilasu is the main tool of money that solves everything and buys political favor. Gilas is urging Prime Minister Gligori to run for president in 2020. The Alliance for Serbia never existed. What is it now, Janko Veselinović? Nothing. What are these others? Nothing. What is Zeljko Veselinović from the Union? Nothing. They're being held by Gilas, who has his own flirting party, who comes in, makes money, they take two, three, well, well... He's going to see Bishop Gligori. An agreement with the people is a difficult fiction. Jeremic is an untalented politician, and Gilas destroyed a culture in Belgrade -- a finished quote. Here, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, bought MPs from the opposition from this high house and left a high home. Money, money. That's what they're interested in. Let me say that journalists should really inform the truth from this high house. That's what the honourable MP Dr. Zarko Obradovic said yesterday, that often, they usually inform unless it was a direct transfer of what the MPs did not say. I'm gonna end up with that. On Sunday, at RTS, Prof. Dr. Viskovic presented the truth about my discussion at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Due to the time of the distinguished professor, I ask you to look at the source for the second time, and in my case, the stenographic notes from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If he didn't watch a direct transmission, and he didn't, it would be a turn so he wouldn't act as an ordinary forger, and maybe he's doing it on purpose by spreading false news, like the one he was spreading within the Igman Initiative that the Serbian government treats parts of BiH as its protectorate, but he may have bought a former police commissioner who forged it or the editor of "Nin", Mr. Culibrk. It is the one who publicly said on two TVs controlled by Dragan Gilas, that he would resign to the office if the average salary in Serbia is 500 euros in December 2019. As you know, it's been over 500 euros for respectable citizens. He doesn't think to resign, but he can tell lies from this high house. No wonder "Nin", sometimes the best paper in the Balkans and the most read in this part of Europe fell to several hundred copies. That is why he performs daily on TV under the control of Dragan Gilas, spits out the President of the Republic, this Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, I apologize to you today for a little longer exposure. I wanted to see what the code of the People's Parliament means, how we should fight for the truth, and those who think that the street will come to power will no longer watch that movie, because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were overrun in 2000. He won't be able to cheat anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2032	Thank you, Professor Atlagic, as always, for one strong presentation. Let's move on. Bratislav Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2033	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, read with great attention this text of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, which is actually the proposal of the chairman of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs, Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic. With great pleasure, I will vote for this proposed text. I will look back on a few views, as fellow MPs have said a lot. Article 8 says, that is, Article 8 -- the MP is obliged to be polite and to treat Serbian citizens with due respect and respect. As you treat the property of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you also treat the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A previous MP, a politician owned by tycoon Dragan Djilas, a politician from Cačka, Bosko Obradovic destroyed the property of RTS, and whoever destroyed the property of RTS destroyed the property of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that is his relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There is no place in this parliament because, by voting this code, this code will be in a political sense a sacred letter for every MP, for every decent politician, for anyone who wants to last on Serbia's political scene. Those who do not respect this code will soon disappear from Serbia's political scene not because we want to vote this code, but because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will. The MP from Cačka, owned by Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, used a motor saw to intimidate journalists from RTS, and RTS journalists were also citizens of the Republic of Serbia and therefore his Cacans gave him a red card. He can't even throw a three-percent censorship into Chačka anymore. I will tell you one fact, in 2016, the MP from Bosko Obradovic, a politician owned by Dragan Gilas, tycoon Dragan Gilas, was a politician who did not agree to be owned by the tycoon in 2016, had a decent attitude towards political opponents, had a creative performance that he promoted his politics, acted as a talented writer, had 22% of the votes won at the polls in Cačka. In 2016, he entered this Assembly, did not act in accordance with this code, on the contrary, savagery and violence were the words that describe him and in 2017, in the same Cačka, the citizens punished him for getting only a few percent in the presidential elections. I will remind my Cacana, I must state one fact, that Chacans are large-scale patriots and are always for voting for a man from their midst, and in the village where Bosko Obradovic was born, the village of Vranici, where he had more than 50% of the voters won in 2016, when the decency was the measure of his policy, already in 2017 when the savagery and violence were the measure of his policies he received only a few votes, and his relatives, his relatives, who live in that village, voted for a decent politician and a great statesman of Serbian President Alexander Vukic. I would refer here to an item that my colleagues have not largely discussed, and I think that is important, in article 19, the MP will respond to the requests of a representative of the public information means to provide information regarding the performance of the parliamentary function. In short, we are obliged to answer all journalists their questions, so when they are malicious. As you have seen, as followers of President Aleksandar Vukic, Alexander Vukic answers the most question of N1 and Nova S journalists, i.e. the question of journalists of those media who are under the control of tycoon Dragan Gilas. However, it is very important that citizens do not know, we know here, especially those who are from the media, that we are obliged to respond to those journalists who are employed by a legal person, which is registered in the central register of the APR media. So, the media that is not registered in the Central Media Register, in the APR, we are not obliged to answer their questions because they are phantom portals and because journalists who work for phantom portals are actually fake journalists and we are not obliged to answer them. But we are obliged, for example, to answer to the journalists of the opposition media "Blic" list because the daily "Blic" is registered in the Central Media Register. Finally, Article 26 states - the following measures can be expressed for non-compliance with the code: warning and public notice. The public notice is published on the 30 - day website of the National Assembly. There have been criticisms in some media in the past few days that there is also a need for fines. However, I disagree because one public note is a yellow card from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and every MP who wants to continue on the political scene will try not to get into a situation to get public notice. Two public remarks, which means a red card from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you're disappearing from the political scene. So, all those who want to enter parliament in the next election have a chance only if they are decent, and anyone who owns an unseemlyly wealthy Dragan Gilas and he is rude and Serbia's citizens will not give him a chance to represent citizens here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of courtesy, there is nothing more polite than when the ruling majority votes to lower the censorship from 5% to 3%. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2034	Dear Members of the People, since several of you have asked, just to let you know that the Electoral Group of Aleksandar Vukic – There are 62 minutes for our children and that some other authorised representatives of other parliamentary groups have time, so that today's vote is expected somewhere before the break, perhaps between one and two. To continue the work, the next MP is Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2035	I thank the chairman. I'd like to congratulate you on your holiday. I don't want to talk about our political opponents, it's not chivalrous, I don't want to, they're not there, and I like to look at ourselves more than anything, and I think it's something that's also the feature of those people who do politics. We can always talk about some things that some authorities used to do, but I don't like ad person because I like to look every opponent in the eye and tell him what I think. For example, we bring a code, thank God, by having to learn something, the National Assembly is often criticised, unfortunately for its trust in very low branches. It's not from the current mandate, I have to say that before 2012, the percentage confidence in the National Assembly was only 7%. Now it's at 14, 15% which is also small, but it's still some improvement. However, it is terrible for a democratic society when people do not trust the most legislative body. There are also the guilts of the MPs, and there are also guilts because a monstrous pre-election campaign has been led, namely a pre-election monster campaign, and among other things, before the elections, but generally there is a monstrous campaign against parliament, because in this way you best kill democracy by pinking parliament, and then we MPs for years were one of the unprecious cattle that only eats and drinks here, using folk resources, robbing society, robbing the people, and then when you mark the MP that he is a villain, that he is a bandit, that he is a bandit who eats on a people's coat of arms, who eats almost free food in a restaurant, etc. Then experience one creepy thing, there are people who, unfortunately, would like to see us MPs hang out here in front of parliament and throw stones at us while we're hanging. Unfortunately, that's how it is in our society. We're going to have to change it from the root. Now, if we resent so much Parliament and say all the worst about this Parliament, then we speak of all the worst of our people, because what kind of people who carry their sovereignty to the MPs, what kind of messengers such a people, what elites such as such and the people, and we are not such a bad people, we are a wonderful people. We are a people of good and good men. We need to understand the Assembly as a national representation. You know, here, if you mention the receipts of the MPs, you can't even say it anywhere anymore, we have a convincing one and we don't complain about how it is for the people, but the most convincing of the lowest incomes in Europe is safe, and for the world we're here somewhere. The entity of Republika Srpska, which unfortunately to me personally, unfortunately is not a state, but the entity twice as much pay their MPs have than our MPs here. But it's important to say that we're the cutless cattle that eats here, drinks for nothing and gets paid and doesn't do anything. We have to change that. With our conduct, we have to restore the citizens' trust here in the congregation. I have to say, I personally don't like public appearances, maybe no one will take it seriously, but I can't stand to go on television, I can't stand to make statements, I just don't like it. But when the journalists come, they ask you 300 times, and you do not answer, they say, “You are unrequited.” And the use of always one argument in which, unfortunately, they are right – you are an MP, you are obliged to answer. There's nothing to say, you have to answer them. Perhaps we have the right to sometimes be angry with some media, my colleague Jugovic is right, the question is whether we, as MPs, should accept that we are going to the so-called. cross-border channels for many reasons – do they pay taxes here, do they break laws. You're all right, but these people are reporting something here, and they rarely insult our families. Not to talk about what, say, the family of the President of the Republic is running in every way possible, it's the most monstrous campaign to be run. Now the question is, do we have the right to refuse to go there? I don't know what to tell you. I think each of us has a right to a choice. But, again, the dignity of the People's MP is your duty everywhere to affirm. I will personally go wherever they call me, though reluctantly, although with, even admit honestly, a dose of disgust. But I'm going to leave, because I think it's my duty, I'm a National MP. It's an honor to be a Parliamentarian. Once in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and even before, the Kingdom of Serbia, was a great honor to be an MP. You were more important than the minister. I am very proud, my chukundada was also an MP in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Earth Assembly, he received 20 years of Arad Prison and participated in the assassination of Gavril Principe, but later he was an MP in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. This is where I found his stenograms. Do you know what an honor it is? Do you know what the People's Messenger used to mean? Today, unfortunately, because of a campaign like this headed towards the MPs, we are the worst thing there is. And look at the other parliaments! They say things were going on here, so some of them were out, so someone was rolling, so they were terrible words. People, parliament serves to tell each other even the hardest words. Because it's something that's normal, because it's democracy. I'd rather be here in Parliament fighting than the people fighting in the street. We are the ones who must channel the dissatisfaction of the opposing parties here in parliament. And that we're not lying to each other - we're government, people. We are the most responsible for the state of affairs, because we are the government. And as much as the opposition is acting irrationally, completely out of their minds, but we have to show that we are above it and we have to go out everywhere. Even when they insult us, we must be above these insults and go out to meet and look ourselves in the eye. Because we're the government and we have to be above it. That's why I'm asking you to adopt this code. To once and for all teach the public that it is an honor to be a national MP, that the MP of power always has more responsibility than anyone else and that we return the political debate to parliament. I think it's extremely healing for this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2036	I thank the MP Vladimir Djukanovic. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2037	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the first day of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we discussed the draft laws of three ministries – the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There have been ten proposals for decisions ahead of us, and I will discuss the subject of the proposal for a decision to adopt the codes of conduct of MPs, which was tabled by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs on 17 December this year. With the code of conduct of MPs, we establish ethical standards of conduct which we, MPs, will respect and apply in the performance of the parliamentary function for which we are elected by citizens of the Republic of Serbia on 21 June this year. The main objective of adopting and promoting codes of conduct of MPs is to strengthen citizens' confidence in the National Assembly as the highest legislative body of a single state. As MPs, we are carrying out a parliamentary function in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure and the Code to be adopted, as well as other regulations and general acts. We must act in a way that strengthens the integrity of this high home, which we do, and strengthen public trust, i.e. our citizens, our daily work and efforts in the National Assembly. The National MP shall participate in the work of the National Assembly and its working bodies, working groups for the production of proposals for acts and other forms of work. It is our job to make constant and direct contact with citizens in parliamentary offices, in the stands and other public meetings, as well as to answer the questions of citizens sent by mail or electronic means. Also, the MP shall hold meetings with representatives of NGOs, associations of citizens and other stakeholders and shall seek initiatives and suggestions and proposals from the citizens of the affirmative before the competent working bodies of the National Assembly. The MP also, as a freely elected representative of citizens, acts in the public interest of citizens, who are responsible for his work and are obliged to treat all citizens equally, without discrimination. Just to point out, we need to respect the following general ethical values in our work, both as long as we are in this high house and outside of it, and these are: truth, justice, honesty, impartiality, responsibility, integrity, openness and accessibility. For non-compliance with the Code, measures of caution and public warnings may be made. I must say that I support the introduction of a new crime for insulting politicians, their families, and of course there is a particular crime if children and parents of politicians are insulted, and we are aware of the daily tortures, both on the family of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, and on all members of the SNS. It would be good if such a bill came to the Assembly for consideration as soon as possible. It is known who attacks the family – only people who are frustrated, who do not have a gram of morality in themselves, and who do not know in what way to fight us, other than lies, threats and insults. And the attack on the family as a sanctuary is a serious attack on the state, including just society. I will remind you, as regards the ethical values and codes of conduct of the MPs, what the former MP Bosko Obradovic did while he was in this high house, which is that he entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a stone, insulted with terrible words and attacked the former National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, physically attacked the MP Dr Aleksandr Martinovic, physically attacked MP Marijan Rističević, entered with a whistle into the big hall and whistled, dragged and torn the flag of the Republic of Serbia while the Assembly Security was throwing him out of the hall after countless reminders of the president, and we know that the flag is one of the symbols of each state. Further, attempted forced entry into the National Assembly only a few months ago. What exactly do you opposition gentlemen want? To take us back 20 years, in the past and violent way to enter parliament and take power, since in the election obviously you can't? We must no longer allow this to happen in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We only have one Serbia and no one else. That's why we have to fight for her and all the citizens of our beautiful Serbia. It is my honor and responsibility to be part of this assembly of MPs in the National Assembly, because I am quite certain and convinced that this composition will be remembered only by the work and effort we are taking, all of us MPs, that our citizens will be better. I will support with pleasure the code of conduct of the Members of Parliament. Also, I will support all the other draft laws and decisions we discussed at the eighth session of the Second Regular Session. Long live Negotin, lived Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2038	Thanks, buddy. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2039	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this television broadcast, the code is an important topic. It is important that MPs are treated according to the duties they have received, the honors they received from Serbian citizens in the elections, to represent them in this high House. It is also important how they behave outside parliament. It is important that they understand that the honor they have received, whether they perceive it as an honor, to act as a MP or as a privilege. We had a great task in 2012, to make today a parallel, how Parliament works today. Today, MPs who make up the ruling majority experience this place and this function as a great honor, and sometimes those who drag all of us around every day through various portals and media, have just seen all of this as a privilege and as an opportunity for those from one or more mandates to come out much richer than they have entered all of it. Usually, as naked blinds, they entered this National Assembly. So, from their extraction, they come from these monstrous ideas and thinkings, and some works, i.e. Infractions that work on a daily basis. I've brought here a few real examples of how they worked in the past few days, so it would work because they're not, at least the media who are, and most of them are under the control of that tycoon and the thief Dragan Gilas, most of them are under their control, and here I'm going to show myself, I was talking at the last session about the fact that Dragan Gilas is the inspiration of all these misdemeanors, all these monstrous calls to liquidate the president of the Republic, his family, to rape his daughter, to experience his sons, to invent, to fabricate lies, to make up lies, to daily. You can't imagine how sick the imagination of Dragan Gilas can reach and how far that sick mind can reach in spreading its disease and insane and frenzy ideas. I'd like the RTS to show what Koraks did. Look, fellow MPs, please, on December 19th, this came out in one of their papers. I can't even call it a daily newspaper, it's a pamphlet of Dragan Gilas, a political pamphlet of Dragan Gilas. What's this for? What's this for, when they say we're crazy because we're talking about Dragan Gilas and their media inspiring some jerks, to call for the murder of the President of the Republic. They are right here showing individual MPs digging for cancer to the President of the Republic. What does a cartoonist do? Look at this. Could a normal man sit down and give his artistic, some idea by digging, drawing the graves of the President of the Republic? This can only work for a naked patient. And this person is not for any law, for any questioning, for any police, it's for psychiatric skill, to determine whether this person is normal and whether or not that person can inform the public of anything, even in this way. That's one example. We have another example, which was about a month ago, which is where they especially like it on Twitter, where Dragan Gilas wrote among other things that they will fight for power on the street. Aren't these real examples, from their profile, real examples of how they see politics, democracy, what it looks like from their corner, when people can't, and when people don't want to see it in power and look at it, then they see an opportunity to join with their criminals, beatings and killers and try force, on the street to overthrow the power of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and all those people who are legally and legitimately elected, here today in the National Assembly and other important and responsible places in the Republic of Serbia and where they have results that all Serbia is proud of. Then, I also mentioned the threats, about the rapes of Vukic's children, of course, there are no SNS MPs left out there, should be daily, anyone from here who dares to say what one court has forbidden, to say that Dragan Gilas is a thief. Let's ask ourselves, where did you get 24 million reported euro assets? Where did that come from? Let's ask, where did the 619 million come from just when you were in power? How come those 619 million, so smart, so capable, so brilliant, you couldn't make it happen in those nice companies, when you weren't in power, before coming to power or after? That'd be rude later, so he picked up the connections, so he used it. Well, before you came to power, that you, master, then, had a successful private company, earned your money honestly, showed it up, paid taxes in the country where you live. No, I don't. You came to power, ran some sort of fictitious, phantom office, for I don't know what, you were the director, I don't know what. Afterwards, you became mayor of Belgrade, reigning from day to day with affairs, not to mention hundreds of millions of euros stolen from various trams, various bases of cities, Therasia, the bridges, everything else, set up tenders, public procurement to your friends, hundreds of millions of euros stolen from it, so before coming to power, the SNS promised the adoption of a new Law on Public Procurement, which is why we saved hundreds of millions of euros in the pockets of Serbian citizens and stopped the spilling of money from this people to go into the pockets of the tycoon, that they could boast the various Maldives in the working time of the National Assembly, as did the unfortunate Balsha, so they spent all that great money, we remember, Ken in the Smederian Palanca for beer and how it all worked. A real example of how their activities are publicly by their various, called, humorous shows, various political flows of the shows they organize, etc. What's that, results in the end. I'm going to point at the YouTube channel that I'm editing, a certain Christian Takac, wrote a comment, and I'm ashamed to read this in public, so I'm going to show it, where this person points out after a few days of my emphasis on Dragan Gilas and invites him to answer where 619 million and calling him a thief, to get a card like this, where public people who support the violent change of power in the state of Serbia and who are inspired, to say, by the work of a mob, tycoon, criminal Dragan Gilas, are calling for the rape of my mother and my underage daughter publicly and explicitly, directly, without any dilemma. If anyone in Serbia is interested in the media, I'm going to deliver this to them, no problem at all, so let's see if they're worth any more of the false tears bought in Dragan Gilas's pharmacy and the furniture, and now start crying, or when he's threatening the president of the Republic and his children, or anyone's children in the Republic of Serbia, whether anyone's child in this country should be the victim because his parents are dealing with a job that doesn't like a criminal. It's an honor to have any of my colleagues dragged around their media. That's good, that's great, so you did something good for your country. Because when those who have left their debts, accidents, ruins everywhere from the economic system, the military, the police, everything has fallen apart during their rule, we who are led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, are raised up by this country, are proud, firm, stable, that we can praise that one of the most successful in economic growth, is the most successful at this moment in Europe, and on the other hand, you have these people who do these things. It is a clear choice for Serbian citizens, there is no dilemma, most citizens in Serbia are decent and normal people. They ask us to communicate politely here, to talk about agenda topics, today about the code of conduct of the MPs, as they see the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I can't imagine any of them being in any kind of accident here today. It wouldn't be the Assembly, it would be a circus, because they would try to make this Parliament a ruin in that moral sense, absolute ruin. Serbian citizens did not allow it in the elections. We're talking to the citizens, and they say -- I don't want to see a fight, spit, ugly words, I want to hear why some solution you've suggested isn't good from another angle, or I want to hear arguments on your part about why it's necessary to pass some law, some legal solution just as it's proposed, how it's going to affect my life better, how I'm going to have a higher standard, a bigger salary, a bigger pension, that's what I'm interested in, whether I can pay the kid a scholarship, buy him shoes, and not that they're going to have a discussion on their portals, if anyone has a 70-euro duks, tell me where Gilasu and fairies of so many millions? Where did those 40 properties come from? Bata Gojko went to all the trouble carrying safe crates or who knows what he was doing in his life to get those 40 real estates, a pain in the ass. We should really congratulate him. There is much to be tortured, so 40 real estate is acquired, while Serbian citizens could not acquire a single 30-square apartment during their rule. Then they speak in their shows about how they behave in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and whether we are truly representatives of Serbia's majority. Well, of course, most Serbia, decent, I say, modern, wants a progressing Serbia, which is developing, which is working, which wants to learn, which wants to perfect itself every day, and not perfect itself by fighting, but by going to the library to learn foreign languages, to read books, to work on itself. You can't do that with those in power the way they were. It was a naked struggle for survival for existence, for this people to survive only that time until they welcomed someone else to power and welcomed a statesman, not a politician. I say again more than once, they've welcomed statesman Alexander Vukic to stabilize one country, hit himself with a fist of a hundred, and say, a lot of robbery, a lot of kidnapping, a lot of lying policies. You can't say now that the highways we built don't exist. No one can say it's a hundred times open per mile of highway, like they used to do. You can't say there isn't a bypass around Belgrade when it exists. You all remember how many times they opened a bypass around Belgrade on their media. From 2000 to 2012, we listened every year - next year it ends. We've been listening about the subway 50, 60 years ago and nobody's done anything, and now we know exactly when it's going to start, when we're going to have the first line of the subway. So in 2027, in 2028, the first people will be driving in a subway in Belgrade. We know that, and we also know that it will be, because the current city government is responsible. Each promise made has kept its citizens and this is the basis for the Serbian Progressive Party's policy. Let us carefully consider what the needs of the citizens of the Republic are, what it is necessary to do at what point in the state, see what we have, what we miss, do everything we can to keep those promises, keep the promises, go to the elections, win the majority in parliament, and then someone comes to discredit us. A thief and a criminal come to you with their call to the press and who knows what to write all kinds of vomit about all of us. Well, why don't they publish this? What are the threats to rapes not published? Why don't they announce that this lunatic is being perverted by violence on the streets of Belgrade? What aren't they publishing? Why don't they announce from this crazy Corax cartoon? Why doesn't anyone publish it? Why can't they publish that? Why does that have to be hidden? Why can't the citizens of Serbia see it? Why is it the only opportunity in direct transmission at the meetings of the Assembly for people to see it? I ask you all to be responsible together, to take this as a great commitment and a great honor, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia see it and that they know it all in the right way and to evaluate and to evaluate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2040	Thanks, buddy. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2041	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday and today, we had the opportunity to hear from colleagues who are here in several terms about details of the behavior of certain people who are not present in this composition, who were once MPs, about behaviours that, of course, do not serve them honor and are not in line with ethical or moral values. Of course, I, as a citizen, had the opportunity to see some of that, and I hope other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is an honor to be a People's MP and it is an honor to be among these humble and decent people, which is my conclusion after four months of staying in this house. I say, I'm here for the first time. This is my first term, but I really feel very comfortable among people who are modest and who are perfectly decent and for whom I hope there was no need to write and make up this code, because the vast majority of people without codes would behave properly and properly. The code that is before us is actually a reminder for the MPs, a set of their rights, obligations and duties, which are defined by both the Constitution and the laws, as well as the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, but also a reminder of how we should treat citizens, our constituents, or the people who chose them, but also in some mutual communication within the Parliament itself. I especially like the part about the communication of MPs and citizens who chose him. This obligation to attend public meetings, the stands, the reception of citizens in the MP's office, the communication through e-mails and the reply of citizens is something that has indeed been a feature of the work of a larger number of my colleagues, but this obligation to communicate and solve the problem of citizens and that other obligation, that the ministries and state authorities co-operate with the MP and be zealous in providing answers and providing information so that the MP as an intermediary between the citizens of the executive authority can respond to his function. Also, I like the part about relationships with the media. I fully agree that the MP must be open to the means of public information and that each of his views, that is, for each of his positions, he must also have a clear public explanation of why such an opinion is and why such a position is taking place. In one part of the Rules of Procedure, it is said, which I also support, that mobile phones and other funds can be used in a way that does not endanger the course of the session, but I would add - not only mobile phones and other technical means, but the overall behaviour of MPs at the sitting in this room itself must be so that it does not compromise speakers and does not endanger the course of the session. Sometimes it happens, we all witnessed it, a certain marble above the allowed level when someone is talking, and we had a few situations that the speakers themselves were praying to colleagues who were in their immediate vicinity to keep quiet so that they could continue their discussion, because it could interfere with whoever was talking. It is probably not heard in the position of the chairman and the chairman is not always able to react to the Rules of Procedure and warn those who speak too loudly, act and simply do not pay attention to the fact that someone is discussing them and that he needs concentration. So it's not listed, but I think it's something that we should all stick to in the future. Here I would draw attention to one detail I have seen, which is that some MPs or representatives of small parliamentary groups, who have the championship of presentation, the championship of discussion, come in the morning, say what they have, which is often the opposite of the attitude of the majority, challenge controversy and disappear and they are gone. They're not there that day, they're not there on Wednesday, they come or don't come on Thursday, when it's on the agenda, or when there's a vote on all the points of the agenda, which I find insufficiently collegiate. You know, if you come, you state your position, which is critical of most, which opposes the attitude of the majority, then be there, listen, listen, listen to what this majority has to say to you, to answer, not simply say and go, get lost from the session. Look, it is the right of every member of Parliament, every MP, but I am now talking about whether it is correct enough, correct enough, or not correct enough. I find such behavior not collegiate and correct enough. Also, I think one of the responsibilities of the MP is to attend the meetings of the Assembly. A large part of the MPs, most of them truly zealously fulfill their obligation. However, I have the impression that one part of the MPs is not present at all at meetings of the National Assembly or is extremely rare. I now wonder what other obligation can be more than the obligation to perform the duties of a MP? That is where I would be touched by Article 13 of the proposed Code, which says that the MP can perform other functions in accordance with the regulations restricting the performance of other functions. It is probably meant by the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, the part that defines the cumulation of functions, or the possibility of cumulation of functions. I must remind myself that the function of the MP, as well as the function of the committee, the original function and all those functions that are original, direct, which are obtained directly from the citizens, are not subject to the Agency's assessment, but some other functions, which may be additional, must exist for them the consent of the agency. Of course, before that there must be agreement between the relevant committee of the Assembly, and then the Agency’s assessment of whether such a function is in line with, say, the function of the MP, whether it interferes with the MP’s performance or not, as well as whether there is a particular conflict of interest. So it's not just a conflict of interest, it's a conflict of interest, but in general, if any other function goes simply by the function of the MP. My personal position is that the functions of directors of large public enterprises and institutions, which require a whole man, 24 hours a day, do not follow the post of MP. You just can't be in two places at one point. You can't be there and you can't be here. I personally believe that the function of the MP is a great honor and a great privilege for everyone who performs, and she is seeking the whole man. If indeed the MP performs the function in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Law, and this Code, which is to be adopted, where all his rights, obligations, responsibilities, etc., he does not have enough time for another extremely demanding function. The function of the MP can't be just a pendant or just a medal that someone's going to fend for. I'm really glad that there are no such cases among my colleagues in the SNS, no matter how many of us are here, there are 180 of us, absolutely no such cases. I'd like to touch a subject that's not strictly tied to the Rules of Procedure, but I hope you understand. I first come to the home building of the National Assembly for the first time, and one impression, I can say freely, with the eyes of an ordinary citizen, I want to bring you out, which is that I think we need to find another solution for car parking. I simply think that several hundred cars around the home of the National Assembly are not the most adequate solution, that parking should be solved in another way, using nearby garages. Of course, protected personalities are known to come and go, there are certain procedures, but the rest of us shouldn't park there, but of course, people have to park there until they find another solution. All that leaves is a bit of a strange impression. It's an extraordinary building. This building is causing special emotions among all of us who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, causing great respect. It is a masterpiece of architecture and a monument of culture. I think the space around the building itself must be encased and arranged in a different way. I also urge that this temporary fence be removed, which I don't know what it's for. Such a fence is set up at games or some events, gatherings, a few hours, and then removed. I see he's been standing outside the National Assembly for a few months. I don't see her point. I don't see that there's a need for that fence to protect us from anyone, and I say, of course, protected personalities have their own procedures of entry, arrival and departure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2042	Thank you. According to the list of registered speakers, the word is Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2043	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I think that previous speakers have all been very well discussing this proposal for a code that is today in front of us. I would particularly refer to the discussion of my colleagues Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Milenko Jovanovic, who explained to detail what this code represents, what this code means and why we are working things out today, although those who criticise, when they were able to solve, have not solved or adopted. However, what draws particular attention to me is the fact that this code will be adopted by us, but yet the people who cause hatred in our country, who are also inciting threats and calls to the murders and President Aleksandr Vukic, his family, here we have heard fellow MPs of Serbia Filipovic, each of us have gone through that warm rabbit of theirs. But they will again be excluded from any rules of conduct and we will again be in a situation where people who today represent one part of the opposition are absolutely all allowed without even being allowed to tell and repeat those threats we have received or suggest on everything we experience daily. The question that is also being asked and imposed is whether this code is sufficient to change the minds of individuals and will we be able to get into a situation with this code so that we never have to repeat that one MP opposes another MP just because it belongs to another political party, the option? So, are we going to come to that awareness that, here, about ten meters away from me, the minister attacks, that people are only caught for the lapels because Bosko Obradovic doesn't like it, and by the command of Dragan Gilas? This Codex is very good, and I agree that it is only the foundation of some of the next decisions and behaviour of the MPs in another period, but in two years we will have parliamentary elections again. If that part of the opposition dares to go to elections and by some miracle cross the censorship, the question arises what kind of behavior they will conduct here and whether the provisions provided for by this Code will be sufficient for us to have a normal discussion in parliament or whether they will try to make this parliament a circus again? Although I am a first-time MP, I have followed every session and followed the behaviour of certain MPs representing the Alliance for Serbia. To them, the only goal and task was, by the command of Dragan Gilas, to bring this home down as much as possible and to degrade it in every way possible. If one MP allows himself, I don't know what he's thinking, playing the guitar here, the other one bringing in the stone, and I don't know what he's trying to present, then with a whistle, he's provoking everyone here. The question is, what is new that they can invent and what will they offer next if, by any chance, they cross the censorship in two years. I think there must be some other things to do besides this code, which is awareness in people who are trying to get their hands on the authorities today and to come to power without the support of Serbian citizens. I believe that, first of all, my colleagues from PG Aleksandar Vukic – for our children so far, they have never done anything else than what we daily go through as people who represent the SNS. You haven't heard from any of my colleagues that he's referred an open threat or called for the murder of any of our political inexperiences, and we're exposed to it every day. And that's not enough for them, but when we mention from this tide, from this room what we're going through about us are the real emissions, the days and weeks we satanize, we're going through the worst mud, just because we asked if it's normal and we asked ourselves, we asked the competent institutions if they would react. I think that previous colleagues have touched everything they care about and the citizens when they ask us – and why someone is allowed, and you are not allowed to ask only. I think this Codex will improve dialogue and the functioning of the parliament itself, but as you know, respected MPs and dear Serbian citizens, it always takes two for dialogue. I've talked about it before, discussed it. And when dialogue was organised at the FPN, representatives of the SNS responded to each meeting. But in the absence of arguments, results or any idea, and in order to somehow escape into that boycott and hide from the election, these people who are calling for some kind of dialogue today, they fled from that dialogue, hid themselves, and that was their excuse to boycott the election. I will end this because I believe that there are other fellow MPs who want to use our PG time, this code and this kind of behavior, and the time spent that will certainly be spent by the end of our parliamentary groups, just shows how much we care about promoting Parliament's work and promoting general dialogue. No one from the SNS has ever escaped from any issue of journalists, nor has he ever escaped from any kind of dialogue. Unlike the people who have ruined our country, behind the SNS and the politics of Alexander Vukic, there are concrete results, given but above all fulfilled promises. That is why I am proud, and that is why I will be very pleased to support this Code, because this Code is in line with all the values that we represent, but above all, it is in the interest of the citizens of our country, because it will be best able to assess the work of parliament and MPs, as well as the party, when in open dialogue, with all due respect, which is certainly more relevant to us than they, we present arguments and discuss who did what, and who has any other vision of Serbia. I am convinced that we will adopt this code, but I am also convinced that after the next election these people who are criticizing this Codex today will criticise it even then, if they dare to go to elections and cross the census, because then, respecting this Codex, they won't be able to threaten us either, or to call for our murder, but then it'll probably be a lack of democracy for them. I would call on all MPs to support this Codex, and I am confident that in the next period we will have decisions of great importance for Serbia and all our citizens, because SNS and Alexander Vukic's policies will always be the interest of our citizens in the first place and a better life for all of us, for all our children and generations to come. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2044	Thank you, colleague Mirkovic. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2045	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the people, the citizens of Serbia who are watching us, I want to tell you that there is an excellent Code before us. This Codex has been drawn up for a long time, and I agree with everything my colleagues have said about the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. I must point out that on the one hand we advocate that we, as MPs, be what we need to be, that is to be in the service of our citizens, the service of our citizens. We must behave with dignity and respect to public appearances and when we visit our neighbors and when we walk along the street and in this high house and in relation to employees and beautiful officers outside the building and all the employees in this high house. On the other hand, we have those actors on the political scene who, slightly speaking, don't know they're acting because they're arrogant. A part of them participated in serious criminal and corruption activities and they criticize us. How are they criticizing us? They not only criticize us, but threaten our families, threaten the President of the Republic, threaten the leadership of the National Assembly, and who are these people? It's Dragan Gilas and his comrades. Gilas and his comrades had been in and out of the Assembly this year, wanting to fire, wanting to kidnap, attack Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic at a meeting of the Administrative Committee, wrestling here, breaking into the Chamber of the former presidents of the Assembly, breaking in with motor saws, threatening, wanting to shut down cameras, and as we heard from Mr. Arsic and Mr. Atlagic and Risticevic, my more experienced colleagues, and accidentally beating their political inexperiences. But thanks exclusively to the citizens of Serbia who have given absolute majority support to those who are here in parliament, and primarily to our list "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", such people as Dragan Gilas, Bosko Obradovic, Srdjan Noga, Balša, Kena and others are not in this parliament today, not because we do not allow it, but because the citizens of Serbia have said it. Serbia will no longer see haughtiness, crime and corruption. Most Serbia wants what it said and in the elections, it wants Alexander Vukic's policy, SNS and coalition partners. He wants politics for the future of our children, for the future of all citizens. This policy is also the implementation of this Code, because here we are for the first time in history bringing this ethical Code of Conduct to the Members of the People, because we want to send one message to all actors on the political scene and to all Serbia that SNS and Alexander Vukic are for peace, democracy, stability, for one dignity on the political scene. We first want to hear criticism on our account, but criticism in one dignified way. As far as I'm concerned as the MP, let the opposition criticise me for all living and political insolents, but please do not insult the families and threaten the families of both the President of the Republic and the families of all actors on the political scene, parliamentary and non-parliamentary, positional and opposition. This Codex is good and I am convinced and this opportunity and I call on all my colleagues to vote and this Codex will be respected. All the MPs here, and I've had the opportunity to get to know almost everything in this assembly, behave with dignity, behave the way a MP should behave, and that's good. The code is great, not to repeat myself with my previous speakers, but I hope at some point there will be some code, some rule of conduct and those other actors on the political scene that are not MPs. What about the behavior of the extraparliamentary parties? What about the media? What about the threats of the so-called. analysts, NGOs? What do we do to those who wish to be political opponents on the scene? What about Twitter threats, Facebook, the Internet? Dear citizens, do you see what Facebook looks like, Twitter, Instagram, the orders of MPs? You know what they look like? They look like targets. And you know by whom? By Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Bosko Obradovica and their parliamentarians. They use every Twitter, Facebook, Instagram warrant to put targets on the line. We also heard what they did to Serbian counterpart Filipovic. There is no day not to threaten our young colleagues and more experienced ones. When will that be arranged? On several occasions, we talked about both high-tech crime and the reaction or the lack of reaction of the prosecution and the police. Let's please have on the political scene a peaceful and dignified and democratic situation and an atmosphere. We have it here in the Assembly and this code will strengthen it. That's not controversial. How about all those attacks on us MPs, government officials, local self-government officials? This parliament as a high home, as a legislative body, has been exposed every day for 24 hours a week to the worst possible attacks. Who will protect the Serbian Parliament? Is there a code that will protect our MPs from the monstrous and shameful attacks? On the other hand, we MPs, chosen by the people, should be an example to all. There are no double arches here. We must be the first to be punished if we do not comply with both the code and the rules and the Rules of Procedure and the law. That's not controversial. I am convinced that the MPs of the list Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and will vote for this code and respect this code. On the other hand, I urge the citizens of Serbia to give support to the MPs so that we can be what that same people chose for us to be, to serve citizens in the service of citizens, to be able to conduct the best policy in Serbia, the best policy in the region, and for me and the best policy in Europe. It's Alexander Vukic's policy, and it's a policy for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2046	Thank you. Before we move on to the next speaker, just one announcement. The remaining time of the Legislative Group of Alexander Vukic – for our children is six and a half minutes. The next speaker is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2047	Thank you. Although an important topic will be enough of these six and a half minutes for me to say something about the code of conduct of the MPs. The President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, is before us, as we have repeated countless times yesterday and today, the code of conduct of the Members of the People. I'd say a lot more important. We are also facing a turning point in terms of everything that in future public speaking here in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the political life of the Republic of Serbia needs this code and meaning. We, on our side, have done everything and through the Administrative Board to support and, as you can see, my esteemed colleagues have said in turn that they will support this code. However, the code as a code is only one or ten pages of written text. It is not worth it if it will not be used and if the general dialogue needed in our society as a dry need is not a code for all. All professions, doctors and lawyers and anyone else have their codes, so it's okay for both politics and the National Assembly to adopt codes of conduct. I will refer only to the basic principles and to what is most important and to all that my distinguished colleagues have said, that I do not repeat myself with them. I will read one of the basic principles, where it is said that the MP in Article 2 is making constant and direct contact with citizens in the parliamentary offices, in the stands and other public meetings, as well as answering the questions of citizens sent by mail or electronic means. I have to say something affirmative in front of my political party and say, since I am well directed in both a certain way and co-ordinated at the level of the republican activity, which is the direct contact of all our officials, primarily the Members of the People, but also the MPs, councilors, councilors, city officials, all of us in the SNS have a need, obligation, desire and daily contact with citizens. What's the direct contact? That contact that does not mean who will what and how to qualify through this ethical code and who will send an ugly political message about whom, but who the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are primarily waiting for us, which is to be in the role of achieving their rights and interests. That is exactly where the MPs and the administration of the political parties come into force. What is the other political party than the intermediary between the achievement of interest and the possibility to exercise a certain right over a particular institution between citizens and that institution. That's exactly what we're doing, we're doing systematic and we're working as an army that's in function to the people. Every day in our party offices, and where our officials are, we receive citizens. Thousands and thousands of citizens have held talks with our officials over the past period. We have recorded every problem and tried to send that key message – yes, we are there to achieve everything that is necessary for you to come to a certain right or to solve a particular problem. If anything, we'll listen to you. What message? So that we will refer your problem to a competent address or our lawyers who work in the legal service will write a request to our party's legal committees, a complaint, a request for free legal aid. We do it because we have personnel, because we have knowledge, because we have officials in responsible places who are willing not to abuse anything, but to speed up the procedures that citizens are allowed by legal acts. It's exactly the role of every political party. It's exactly the key role of every MP, and it's not like we're going to be muddy around here anyway. It's not good in this atmosphere if we adopt this ethical code that everything that exists in politics goes exactly the opposite direction. I have to say, even though we have this need, and if we have a need like our boss said here yesterday, speaking to our MP groups, that we have an obligation still as we had until today, to respond to the media, but the media that reports from the National Assembly have an obligation here to report in one way that is completely objective, true and not malicious. Explain to me. I'll take an example from one of the daily newspapers today. Unfortunately, it is the panel of Dragan Đilas who comes out on a daily basis and explain to me what this report is, I will show the third page that is the impact page, where Martinović accepted Orlic's amendments, so the text goes, and below the text there is one photo, and below that photo writes – Marinika Tepic in the head of the hammer. That's what it says here on this page, and I want to say this -- I disgust every kind of threat and every graph that's directed towards anyone, and I condemn them. Editors of such newspapers who want Mr. Orlic, Mr. Martinovic, to put in the context of such an ugly reporting, such a hoax, imputation to create that such an atmosphere is being created in the National Assembly, but it would also be an obligation for them by the codes they have and in their journalistic profession to apologize to both Mr. Martinović and Mr. Orlic and SNS. Of course, we will not watch it in the diaries of Dragan Gilas, or on those televisions that Dragan Gilas controls. Of course, we will not look at that message unfortunately in the daily newspaper that is being edited by Dragan Gilas. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2048	I thank my colleague. The word is by Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2049	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. What is happening yesterday and today, and what is very important for, as the MPs, so in general our society in Serbia as a whole, is one thing that is related to a collective social agreement. So what makes us individuals in an individual sense, with everything that we are in our own identity here today and these days we testify as something that needs to be completed all that we have so far, i.e. as a collective act of response by the people through their MPs that the time of destruction has passed and passed, and that what we are doing is one quality, important reconstruction, the reconstruction of all those provisions which are fundamental to the morality of each of the MPs and which, in fact, are made up as part of one mosaic, make the value that should be essential, as regards the return of elitism to this honorable home which, unfortunately, in the previous period and how it was violated and violated. Therefore, as the People’s MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, we will support this code earnestly, but we will also insist that it be a model, a urn, and those outside this congregation hall that we should continue to work to heal our society and restore it to those spiritual values that are fundamental to each of the peoples who live here, who are in fact their ethical and moral, spiritual value of heritage from their spiritual heritage, from spiritual values, and thus speak the sacred books, after all, of all our peoples. So what is crucial and what we need to stand for and what is our main weapon here as the MPs is a word, a word as the fundamental importance and value that we have and which we have when we refer to any criticism, or any explanation that we have to say. That is why the Bible also says, at first it was a word, a word from God, and God was a word. That is why it is said in the Qur'an: a beautiful word is like a beautiful tree; its roots are deep in the earth, and its branches are placed high in the sky. So the word is what makes us essential to humans and what we need to endure and what we are taught and those spirituality from which we originate as a people and what we need to meet. Otherwise, we will look like those peoples who are described when it comes to the Tower of Babylon who are being punished for not understanding one another because they were seeking something that was not human nature, because they were seeking something that violated harmony, order and harmony in all these nations. It's our job to get to know each other, to share each other in the most beautiful way possible, with arguments that we're trying to change our reality and go back to those principles that we inherit from our homes and our families, because that's something we need to build our future and our children, our future generations. If we do not stop all of this that we have witnessed in previous years and unfortunately in the relapses we have and today we will continue the complete destruction of our society that leads to something that can be described as a conflict, that is, an accident after what happened in the construction of the Tower of Babylon. In the end, let's just remember sometimes what the great poet of this society said, Branko Miljkovic – it killed me too much. The word as a matter of fact, as a standard, because, believe me, we are all here carrying that weapon and that weapon called the word paints all of us. Very often the people know how to evaluate it. In the end, he also evaluated it in these elections, and therefore this composition is what it is, and therefore there are not those in it who have failed to persuade the citizens to give them confidence and to receive this honor to be part of the most significant representative home of the people. Because our people are good at assessing it and because it is a key rule that he has worked out in his own wisdom sometimes crucially and sometimes we run away from, it is better. When he says better - seen than famous. Because as long as the word is not heard, we can have one or another opinion about anyone, but when his word is heard, and here is the debate of the MP, then we actually get the overall impression of his values, of his moral code, of what he is, essentially, which is the policy he represents. So, having enough power all of us here together to come up with this set of different rules that will be binding on all of us, is a good step and an example as well as other instances of society, whether they're related to the state or the non-governmental sector or the cultural sector or any other sector, they have to follow up in order to get to the cure and correct all of those deviations that we've been forced into the sun and that if we don't stop them in this way they'll still threaten to destroy us completely and make something out of this space that doesn't belong to any of the people, any religion and any ethnic composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2050	Thanks, buddy. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Milija Miletic reported the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2051	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, here I would say a few things specifically about the code of conduct of MPs. As for me as a representative and president of the United Peasant Party chosen from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and in the previous period when I was also the president of the municipality, until 2014, when I was an MP from 2014 to today, I tried to represent in every way, in every way, as my first place, my place, my family, my parents, my children, because here, from this place when I speak, I always addressed myself in the way they raised me. I think it is necessary to adopt this code of conduct of the MPs here, to treat everyone the way we would like them to treat us, because the easiest thing to do is to express our insults, to express our hatred for someone, to express our hatred for our political insolences, or worse, to express our hatred for their vice and their children, their mothers, their parents. It's happening right now, these days. The worst things happen, parents are mentioned, our president's children. It's not appropriate for anyone. It's not appropriate for our good practices, it's not appropriate for our household behavior. No matter what someone thinks differently, no matter what anyone thinks otherwise, I'm always about to act domestically or as they say in my neighborhood domestically. That's exactly why we need to give every man the opportunity to tell him if he's wrong enough not to do it, but let's not be the way they're treating us right now. Just like all of us here at the bar, in my place, I have a large number of people who support me, who support me. Normally there are those who don't think the same way I do. They talk about me more than once and say things that aren't appropriate. I won't answer them at any moment if I can from this pay phone and everywhere, because what I'm doing is behavior, every MP, every man who has support and a certain responsibility to the people, whether it's five, 10, 15, 50, 1,000, 5,000, 10,000, 100, or millions of people. Each of us wears what his people gave him, and what we wear, we should do it as honestly as possible, well, I always say domestically and responsibly. Because from this place when someone talks and from this place in the congregation when we say something, that's what you'll hear. I was just talking about the problems of my neighborhood, the southeast of Serbia, about the problems of people who have escaped from somewhere who are coming to us, who may be threatening to happen to someone tomorrow. The reaction of our hosts that these people came to, that's what I was talking about, when there was a parliamentary question just now. We simply must act responsibly in every place, and on the other hand, those who are against us, who do not speak the language of normal, who speak the language of hate, I tell them, don't hate anyone, respect what you are, because the essence of everything is, we are the people who have received responsibility from the people to represent our people. As an MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, a man who comes from a small town, the municipality of Srljig, for me is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia. The city of Nis is the most beautiful city in Serbia for me. I have no country but Serbia, and that's why here in the Assembly I represent myself and mine in the way they deserve it, domestically, responsibly, with respect for everyone. To those who don't think like me, think differently and speak in hate language, I don't return it to them in the same way. Once again, we should always behave responsibly, as our Orthodox faith says and as our Patriarch Paul said – Let us be men here in the congregation, both on the street and in the house, everywhere in every place let us be people. Once again, as President and MP of the United Peasant Party selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I call on all fellow Members to vote in favour of this code of conduct of the MPs, because it is necessary for all of us, because of our country, to show our country in the best light. I will vote once again, and I call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of this code of conduct of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2052	Thanks, buddy. Since there are no more reports, is it possible that the promoter Mr. Martinovic wants a word? (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, December 24, 2020, starting at 14.00 a.m. as a day for voting on points 1 to 9 and item 19 of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-24-0.u2053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88, paragraph 5 quorum exists in the voting day if a majority of the total number of MPs are present. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 188 MPs in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on civil servants, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 191 MP, for – 188, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The constitution of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 MPs, for – 188, did not vote - four. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on civil servants in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, for – 190, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has passed a bill amending the Law on civil servants. Second item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Service Employees, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 MPs, for – 191, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. As in the previous case, I would like to put on the vote a proposal to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 193 MPs, for – 191, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Public Service Employees, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 193 MPs, for – 191, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed a bill amending the Law on Public Service Employees. Third item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 193 MPs, for – 190, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 193 MPs, for – 191, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the public sector wage system. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 MPs, for – 188, did not vote - four. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. Fourth item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 MPs, for – 189, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, for – 190, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 MPs, for – 189, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Payments of Officials and Deputys in the Authorities of the Autonomous Province and the Units of Local Self-Government. The fifth item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 MPs, for – 189, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, for – 179, did not vote three. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, for – 190, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. The sixth item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search on the bill and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the public borrowing of most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, United Credit Bank Serbia, A.D. Belgrade, for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica project in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, for – 190, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs, the Uni Credit Bank of Serbia, A.D. Belgrade, for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica Project. Since we are now moving to a decision on the draft laws on the approval of international contracts, i.e. agreements and memorandums (points 7 to 9 of the agenda), I remind you on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. The seventh item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hong Kong of the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the elimination of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, for – 189, did not vote three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The eighth point of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of implementing priority projects in the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, for – 190, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The ninth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the employment of family members living in a joint household with members of the diplomatic and consular representations, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, for – 190, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Nineteenth point of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to adopt the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, for – 189, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has accepted the motion for a decision, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Preambula. At the preamble, the amendment was submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 192 MPs, in favour of – six, did not vote 186. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Act name. On behalf of the act, the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 191 MPs, in favour of – five, did not vote 186. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. On Articles 1, 17, the name of Chapter VI above Articles 22 and 22, the title of Chapter VII above Articles 23 and 23, 24 and 25, the title of Chapter VIII above Articles 26 and 26 and 28 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 191 MPs, for – six, did not vote 185. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the motion for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to adopt the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 191 MPs, for – 188, against – two, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision to adopt the Code of Conduct of the Members of the People's Parliaments by a majority vote. Before I close the session, I just want to congratulate everyone who celebrates Christmas on the Gregorian calendar. Happy Christmas and Christmas tomorrow and a blessed New Year. We don't work for Christmas tomorrow. We have another special session on Saturday. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2020. Thank you.
