ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74105	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 121 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT AND APPLICATION OF THE LAW ON THE CHOICE OF PEOPLE'S MEMBER STATES Today, Minister Branko Ružić attends the session with his associates. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are already used to the election laws in Serbia, i.e. the laws affecting the electoral process in Serbia, usually being passed in a kind of octrossed way, where there is no consensus of political parties and usually changes occur as thunder from the clear sky. So for a year, some quasi-dialogue between the government's representatives and the pro-Western opposition. First, by mediating the NGO, or George Soros, the Open Society Foundation in Belgrade and some other NGOs, and after that, to make the matter worse, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was humiliated by accepting the intervention of former MEPs with some dialogue in Serbia. So, some people, who are no longer in the European Union institutions, who are retired, have set themselves as authorities to resolve the issue of democracy and fair elections in Serbia, and we have accepted and treated them all and how they can bring us, about, a fire that we do not have, as if civilization is coming to Serbia. That was the situation in the National Assembly. And after that, we saw observations about the media presence, about how to vote in the local elections, and so on, that things have really changed, but only selectively and only where the ruling parties fit, and a good example of this was the local elections in Medvedji last year. So on the election list, some Serbian right, which came out overnight as some new patriotic rightist party or whatever, on their local list, officials and members of the SNS appeared. So, it seems little to some people that one party should have more, and then members of the same party go to local elections on different local lists and force themselves on the expense of some parliamentary, long-term and serious parties in Serbia. The same thing was, for example, in the election in Kladovo, which was held two years ago. So, a democratic atmosphere in which three ruling parties win 95% of the vote. Where is it in the world that 95% of the citizens vote for power? Is there a place? It was only in 2018 in Kladov. I guess then someone should have come into a state of consciousness that this needs to be changed, that it takes a little bit to take care of fair elections, that the ruling parties should treat the opposition the way they would like to be treated once they're an opposition. Adversaries should have had one such experience already, since the DS authorities were not tolerated in their own time and, instead of the advances learning from their mistakes, they began to apply a similar system of work and functioning as DS. So it wasn't about real problems. Representatives of the National Assembly thought that they would please someone from the European Parliament or the EU institution if they accepted the intervention in some kind of dialogue between these European MPs, or former MEPs, but we also saw what their criteria were. Their criteria are that the elections are fair if all those parties that advocate Serbia's European integration come out on them, and that at least it matters how many Serbian citizens will vote in those elections. We have already received from the same EU once to congratulate Tomislav Nikolic for winning the five-hour presidential elections, and there are three hours left to vote in polling stations. The European Commission seems to have counted the results of the elections much faster than the RIK in Serbia. That tells us how they behave and how they set themselves up. It's democratic when you're with us, when you're in favour of our cause, when you're filling in unspeakably everything we order you to do, and everything that's against Serbia's European integration, that's Serbia's destructive policy on the way to the EU, it's undemocratic, it's anachronous, it's bringing us back to the 1990s, and I don't know what, or what kind of floscules we could hear right from those Europeans in these years and a few days. So the situation in Serbia, parliamentaryism in Serbia and the electoral process in Serbia should change, should change at the better will of Serbian citizens, i.e. by a consensus of political parties representing the National Assembly of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not by raising their dictatorships from abroad because they are not the interests of Serbian citizens in the first place, but rather by meeting their demands. (Miladin Ševarlic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74107	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Miladin Shevarlic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74108	Thank you, President. Article 107 concerning Article 8 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia -- the territory of the Republic of Serbia -- is unique and indivisible. The border of the Republic of Serbia is non-injurious, and changes are foreseen under the procedure for the change of the Constitution. Yesterday we had the opportunity to see in "Politica" a statement from the Russian Federation's ambassador, that Resolution 1244 should change. At the same time, a statement by the president of the Republic was released yesterday that even if Kosovo were to be declared an independent state in its territory. I suggest that the Assembly call an emergency session, call the President of the Republic and discuss it. If the President of the Republic spreads such... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74109	I'm sorry, you didn't get the word for discussion but for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. How did I hurt the Rules of Procedure and have something to do with your discussion, please? We can't have fake injuries to the Rules of Procedure after, I don't know how many years. Learn the Rules of Procedure. Miladin Ševarlic: I learned. Now it's going to be a vacation, so learn the Rules of Procedure. It's really pointless after four years that you think that breaking the Rules of Procedure is all you can think of to make speeches. You don't have a parliamentary group and you're trying to replace it with a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Miladin Ševarlic: Is that the dignity of the Assembly? ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74110	Thank you, Madam President. I have answered the amendment's question, I would simply like to make several important views of the SNS parliamentary group on what we heard today, and also on what we heard two days ago when we discussed in principle the proposals of these election laws concerning the election of MPs and local elections. First of all, I want to say that the SNS has accepted talks with everyone who wanted to talk to it about which direction our political system should be reformed and in which direction it should be reformed, among other things, and our electoral legislation. There, of course, always comes out of context what the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, has said, and that is that he will not accept any blackmail, even if five million are collected. He said he wouldn't accept the street dictatorship. So, there can be even five million people on the street, which of course will never happen, because those who organise protests against Alexander Vukic can only raise 15 to 20 mobsters and drug dealers, as the fascist, Bosko Obradovic, did two days ago, but at the same time, the President of the Republic said he was ready to talk to all those who want a serious and tolerated dialogue on the reform of our political system, but in the institutions of the political system, that is, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He still said if you don't want to talk to me, talk to the president of the National Assembly. If you do not want to speak to the president of the National Assembly, here are the SNS MPs and talk to them. We have shown our willingness to talk in which direction our political system and our electoral legislation should be changed. Of course, it is impossible to change all of this in a short time, but I think that everyone objective must notice that we have changed a lot in our political system for the better in the past year and that all these changes, if we look at it objectively again, contribute to those political parties that are currently in Serbia the opposition. I'd like to hear one serious argument about that anything has changed in our laws and that it's at the expense of the opposition. No, I don't. It's all in favour of the opposition and it's all to the harm of the SNS, starting with a reduction in the censorship from five to three percent and beyond. In these discussions, we accepted practically everything or almost everything that the opposition parties resented that they were not in our laws, that they were not in our legal regulations, we put all this into our legislation. Then when they didn't know what they were going to do, some of them who participated in those talks, I listened to one of them two days ago who respected us for changing election conditions in the election year or just before the elections, and his party insisted on these changes among other things. We sat at the same table, talked, accepted almost everything they suggested and then came to the National Assembly and said – well, why do you change the conditions for a few months or a year before the elections? Those were all their terms. We showed one width, we showed the willingness to talk. I don't see anything wrong with that. Some colleagues, like a colleague Seselj did now, are constantly resenting why we even talked to that so-called. "pro-Western" opposition. We talked to everyone who wanted to talk. At the beginning of this week, the President of the Republic also spoke to you, if I am not mistaken, from the SRS, regarding these amendments to the Law on election of MPs and amendments to the Law on Local Elections and, as far as I can see, at that meeting Monday with the President of the Republic, all who participated in the debate accepted that these two laws be amended. Those changes are back in favor of the opposition. It makes it easier for them to collect signatures. Therefore, they will not have to collect signatures from public notebooks, but will be able to sign their signatures, i.e. the signatures of citizens who support their lists to verify in municipal, or city administrations. It's also one benefit for the opposition. As for the SNS, we had to verify the signatures, like you, in public notebooks, but there are many parties in Serbia who want to participate in the elections, they are opposition, they have not collected signatures and we are now allowing these legal solutions to verify the signatures in municipal, or city administrations, which is much faster, much more effective and ultimately from a health aspect much safer than that of public notebooks. I want to say one more thing about this EU intervention. We have not changed anything in our electoral legislation by the dictatorship of anyone from the EU or any other foreign factor. All we've changed is the result of dialogue with those political parties we've been talking to. Alexander Vukic, as president of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we as the assembly majority did not accept much more terrible pressures than those relating to electoral legislation. The Republic of Serbia, along with Belarus, is the only country in Europe today that has not imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation. We've been under a lot of pressure for buying Russian weapons. We have suffered terrible pressures as to why we allow Chinese investment in Serbia, and under no such pressure we have failed and we have not changed our foreign policy. We have done nothing to harm the citizens of Serbia. On the contrary, everything we did, we did so that today our country is much stronger than it was in 2012 or 2014, stronger and political and economic and military. We have shown, after all, and now in this pandemic of this terrible disease that we are more prepared to face such challenges than countries that are more economically developed than we are. Today, we would not be in a situation where we can provide in the short term millions of pieces or hundreds of thousands of pieces of mask, gloves, Skuffanders, respirators and everything else necessary to combat this disease, if there were no financial and economic reforms 2014, 2015, 2016, when we strengthened our country in economic and financial terms and it is today practically ready and much more ready than many other European countries to face various challenges, including these health challenges. Regardless of all our differences, we will probably never agree on certain issues, thank you for sitting in the National Assembly and showing respect for the state, for showing respect for parliament, for not acting the way those who claim to be themselves have the only deed to democracy, that they are the only European and civil politicians. We asked them two days ago in which European democratic state is one fascist with 15 to 20 drug dealers and mobsters defending MPs from entering the National Assembly? Marijana Rističević literally beat up, dumped a man on the ground, kicked his legs, ripped his jacket and all that, and then the word of the most incredible lies started that Marijan Rističević was beaten because he allegedly had a knife, so he probably threatened Bosca Obradovic with a knife. Now we can see that from these reactions on social networks. "We know at least now," the Dveri said, "who ripped out the jacket, we just don't know where security was" and the photograph of my distinguished colleague Mark Atlagic, who actually went outside the National Assembly to help a colleague, Marijan Risticevic, and they tell him – you ripped out his jacket. Then Marinika Tepic answered, which says, "Marian holds the knife". Here, I'll show you that knife. Here, that's the knife, let all the citizens of Serbia see it. These are keys to the car Marijana Risticevic with the key chain. So these are car keys with which Marijan Risticevic comes and leaves his post every day, which is the seat of a national MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here, this is the knife depicted by Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic and Marinika Tepic. Marinika Tepic says: "Marian holds a knife. How many of Wolfie's MPs carry cold weapons in the Assembly? They made a mockery of her first, now a life-threatening one. These are," he says, "these conditions for elections. They don't bring in bars and guns anymore, like their Seselj, they've moved on to knives. Where are Anna Brnabic and Alexander Vukic now? “ I, and my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group, will not mention the names of any journalists today, because we do not want to make sacrifices out of these people. First, they are not journalists, they are the sharp political opponents of Aleksandar Vukic, SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They're all on the payroll of a man named Dragan Gilas. I ask my colleagues not to mention their names. We all know who it's about. Do not mention their names, because they enjoy being victims, as Bosko Obradovic enjoys being the victim. He's begging God to be arrested by the police. He prays to God that the police in Serbia treat him the way he is treated by police in Germany, France, Great Britain, America, etc. And we all know how the police behave there. He prays to God that police in Serbia today treat him the same way. Why? Because he needs to be the victim. Here, he's now become a victim of the attackers. Now it's not about him taking down the land of Marijan Rističević, and it's not about him, but about 20 more of them along with him. It is not enough that the man was beaten, he was seriously injured, but now Marijan Risticevic pulled a knife, imagine, on Boška Obradovica. And, of course, all these media, objective, impartial, democratic, set out to defend the fascist Bosko Obradovic and his mentor, Dragan Gilas. What exactly is the background of everything? They don't care about election legislation. They don't care about reforming the political system. It is important that at some point Dragan Gilas and similar to him come back to power and do everything they did while they were in power, which means - I don't care about the state, I don't care about the economy, I don't care about the military, I don't care about Serbs living in the former Yugoslav republics, I'm important, my companies are important, my personal wealth is important. It's not just Bosko Obradovic. Bosko Obradovic is one beating in the hands of Dragan Gilas. Tomorrow, when there is no Bosko Obradovica, Dragan Gilas will find some new beating with which he will try to hit the National Assembly, according to the National Assembly president, by the MPs, for all those who do not think like Dragan Gilas. This is about people who were in power until 2012 trying to stiff Serbia, stop it on the way to its development. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, imagine you, citizens of Serbia, who together with us, who together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the health system, together with the President of the Republic, fought against this pandemic. We didn't beat her till the end, but we didn't even win. We had neither the Italian nor the Spanish scenario thanks to the vigilance and character of both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our health workers. Now, imagine that by some case in power today in Serbia people like Dragan Djilas, people like Bosko Obradovic or Saša Radulovic, who claims that the pandemic was invented, that Vukic invented it because of the elections, to run an election campaign at the time of the pandemic, imagine that such people are in power. Well, we'd have tens of thousands of bodies on the streets. It is therefore important to discuss in the Assembly all the problems Serbia is facing today or all those issues that political parties are running for talks. This is where you talk, it's not the street. It's not democracy when physically 20 of you attack one Marijan Risticevic. It's not democracy when you break into the president of the National Assembly's office, so you hurt her. It's not a democracy when, like two days ago, you force cars and lift hoods from those cars outside the National Assembly, so none of you can get in. It's not democracy when with obviously people who are under the fact of narcotics, with people who are aggressively blocking the presidency building, you block the National Assembly, when you insult, when you spit on the MPs. This happened to us two days ago, directed by those who say that Aleksandar Vukic is a dictator, that he wants to seduce tyranny, that we are all his dunes who defend his attempt to bring down democracy in Serbia. When has any of us in the past four years since this council done any of what they did to Dragan Gilas? Never anyone. They protested, to remind you, and in 2017 when Aleksandar Vukic won the presidential election because they were dissatisfied, beware, they were dissatisfied with the election result. Sasa Radulovic admitted there was no election theft although he had previously claimed it was and then said there was no election theft, Aleksandar Vukic won because SNS alone has a strong party infrastructure on the ground, so he won the presidential elections. For months, they were waiting for us in front of the National Assembly, attacking, cursing, insulting, Marijan Risticevic was damaged by the car, beating up the MPs, and those who protested from 2017 to this day, who were breaking into the National Assembly with the saws, who forced the truck in front of the presidency building, who two days ago beat up Marijan Risticevic, who blocked the entrance to the National Assembly, who again blocked the entrance to the Serbian presidency, had not received any beatings from the police, saw a police officer on the street. In their day, they threw tear gas at us who just wanted to walk quietly to the RTS building. They killed Ranko Panic by trampling him with their boots and that's why no one answered. They beat us, they shut down our microphone, they kicked us out of the National Assembly, it didn't happen to any of them, and they claim they're Democrats, and we're dictators. Serbia is a democratic state, Serbia is a stable state and Serbia will be able to respond to all the challenges that come both in the area of internal and foreign policy, but to bow down to tycoons such as Dragan Djilas or to bow down to fascists such as Bosko Obradovic, it will not happen. Serbia will remain a state, Serbia is eternal and Serbia is older and more important than us individually. We have a responsibility as responsible people to leave our children Serbia better than we found it, and we found it in a catastrophic state. I call today on the MPs, all the MPs, and those of the government and those of the opposition, to freely, reasonedly discuss these amendments, about the electoral laws. It is important that we discuss this and it is important to show our citizens, but to show the whole world that Serbia is a democratic state, that Serbia is a stable state, that Serbia is a state that has institutions and that institutions that function in accordance with the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74111	Thank you. The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74112	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of course, will not support this amendment, but rather the legal solution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has been proposed for several reasons, and the basic one has already been said by Dr Martinovic before me. In any case, for health reasons, not only will more political actors have a chance to collect and verify their signatures. When I said for health reasons, when it comes to pandemics, I have to say for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia a few things that are obvious and that are irrefutable. First, the Republic of Serbia was the first to introduce a state of emergency, and we first introduced all necessary measures to contain the Kovid virus, the first to form economic measures for reviving our economy. None of us have done it before, not in Europe, not in the environment. What is very important, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have preserved the health system of the Republic of Serbia, which was crucial for the health of all our citizens. We saved the only one, I must say, in Europe 99 percent of our pensioners are 1,700,000. We regret every dead one, especially those younger ones, as well as some of our fellow MPs, as well as the secretary of state. I especially must mention Dr Blazic, who was both a personal friend and a great friend. Next, we got the first medical care kit. We have shown solidarity to all countries in the environment, but therefore, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia has between two or three deceased from Kovid to 100,000 residents. Is it true, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, or is it not? This means we stand 10 times better than one Switzerland, which means we stand 30 times better than Belgium, which means we stand 156 times better than Spain, with 156 times as much mortality as in the Republic of Serbia, and we stand better 177 times than Italy. These are irrefutable indicators, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and primarily to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, who was still initiating a meeting of our government and our crisis headquarters in February. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pay little attention, I will make some facts about our political opponents. In the first row for this unpleasant event that happened two days ago, and by Boška Obradovica. He is not the only one, but the Alliance for Serbia. He's just an exponent of it. These are people who only sow lies and violence. I'll remind you of a few facts and ask you whether or not it is true, honourable MPs from the opposition and position. Bosko Obradovic raided the Republic Election Commission. Is that right or not? Bosko Obradovic raided the municipality of Pećinci, a violent incursion. Is that right or not? Bosko Obradovic raided the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Is that right, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia? He raided a police station in Guca, got kicked out by a guard headlong from that station. Is it true he broke into the RTS building? Is it true that he broke into the building SO Gornji Milanovac? Is it true he tried to break into REM? Is it true that he tried to break into the Serbian presidency building or not? Is it true that this bully tried to break into the Belgrade City Assembly building? Is it true that bully Bosko Obradovic knocked down a fence outside the presidency of the Republic of Serbia? Is it true or not that this bully broke into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and made chaos and defiled the flag of the Republic of Serbia, opened the door with a flag, and did it a second time yesterday? Is it true or not that Bosko Obradovic committed an attack on Dr Martinovic at the board meeting or not? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic committed an attack on journalist Pinka? Is it true or not that Bosko Obradovic committed an attack on Dr Martinovic 29. 12. In 2019, in the middle of the National Assembly and brought him down here? Is it true that he threatened President Alexander Vukic to slap him? Is it true it's 19? 11. In 2000, he said, quote: "The wolf must have an emergency heart surgery in the United States in order to survive. That is why, now is the right time to intensify the attacks on him from all weapons," the quote concluded. Can you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, imagine that this impertinent is saying that? Is it true that he committed a verbal attack on Professor Micunovic, one of the founders of the Democratic Party? Dear and smart Professor Micunovic replied, quoting: "I am not interested in the political hooligan Bosko Obradovic who is trying to introduce tabloid prostitution into our political life," finished the quote. This Bosko Obradovic impertinent accused the government of campaigning against migrants, and Serbia is one of the few countries in the world that received migrants really in a wonderful way. Even Goran Jesic, when objected to Zoran Lutovac, called "a stray" because he strayed into politics and his colleague Sutanovac said, quote: "This has to do with a fool who wanders through Serbia with a painted colder spreads fear, lies like a dog and makes political campaign out of unhappy people," finished the quote. That's what our political opponent Goran Jesic said that I disagreed with in many ways, as well as with Mr Sutanovac, but they had so much honor and honesty to say. Finally, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you hear such insults, curses, humiliations by social networks, portals, to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and threats. I'm warning the D.A.'s office, this is my personal opinion -- I think he's at risk of security. I repeat again - I think he's at risk of security. I remind you that Alexander Vukic has first financially consolidated the state. Right, gentlemen of the opposition, or not, stand up and tell me if it's true or not. He said first-- I won't go to NATO, unlike you. The first one marked NATO aggression on our country. The first said - I will not impose sanctions on Russia, as Dr Martinovic said. The first one told the West - you won't stop me from working with Russia and China. The first one, after Dossovan destruction, raised the army of the Republic of Serbia to an envious level, and Tadic said, quote: "What do we need an army for? "He first regained the country's international reputation, because before him it was minimal. The first introduced digitization, thanks to, I must say, and to our President Ana Brnabić, who is exceptional in this area and is pushing that part. Remember when our political representatives in these benches opposed us to having digitalization introduced into schools, that we would not train teachers and vote against it. In this high house, the first one returned 166 pages after many years of "Miroslav's Gospel" where it belonged and what was most important, please pay attention, honourable MPs, today Alexander Vukic is the last and only free ruler in Europe. I repeat, the last and only free ruler in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74113	The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74114	I thank the esteemed president. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a few words about the amendment, since Mr Seselj, in one broader context, explained the amendment that he submitted and spoke between the other and the alleged pressures of European parliamentarians related to inter-party dialogue, discussed among other things the elections in Kladovo, about certain, as I understood, alleged irregularities in the election in Kladov, so allow only a few positions of the SPS parliamentary group. First of all, when it comes to talks on election conditions, I would like to say that I fully agree with Mr Martinovic and the SPS has accepted the call for talks both at the Faculty of Political Sciences and when it comes to inter-party dialogue. We just wanted to show our willingness to change the existing electoral conditions, to create new frameworks, to improve the existing electoral conditions and to listen to what is concretely proposed by one part of the opposition, but we also made it very clear that it was perfectly natural and logical for us to hold such talks from the very beginning in parliament, in the institutions of the system, and that it was perfectly natural and logical for us to have just been one part of the opposition that initiated such a kind of conversation to accept the well-intentioned invitation of the President of the National Assembly of Serbia, if you remember, at the beginning of the session, so that, among other things, just before the sitting, we would talk about the relationship between the authorities and the opposition how to improve parliamentary practice, how to improve parliamentaryism in Serbia. When it comes to suggestions relating to the European Commission's report, that we understand each other, we have accepted some suggestions, but not because it was an EU imperative, which was an imperative of the European Commission, but to improve parliamentaryism in Serbia and I think it was confirmed after accepting and after adopting certain recommendations here in parliament. Parliament is the voice of the people, the place where we MPs, someone who has the mandate and the trust of citizens to do a responsible and serious job, should talk about alternatives to how to come to the most qualitative legislative solutions, and for this very reason we made it very clear in the beginning that it is absolutely logical and productive, I repeat, that we are leading the talks on electoral conditions in parliament. However, if you remember, first of all, we had some conditions, some demands from one part of the opposition. Just laying out the conditions and requirements, and in this bypassing parliament as the highest body of the legislative authority, and knowing that all the laws and all that is related to the electoral laws, electoral conditions, are just being adopted in parliament, you are violating the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was neither the first nor the last time when it comes to a single part of the opposition political parties. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that this ruling coalition has not changed any electoral law, no electoral law in the previous period of time. We are one about funding, correct me Ministers if I am wrong, where the funding of political parties has been reduced by funds aimed at political parties precisely because the priority and imperative of the government of the Republic of Serbia has been saving, and it has been saved where there is. You can't save where there isn't. However, when you mention the talks and when we come to the talks, we have made it very clear -- we want a democratic solution, we want a democratic agreement, we want to come to a consensus. Let's look at what your suggestions and suggestions are, then on the other hand we had one clear attitude -- or 42 demands or a boycott. I'm sorry, but it's not a space and path that leads to consensus and that leads to some kind of compromise, it's a classic ultimatum, and the ultimatum is not a way to talk. It is not good that Serbia's political scene at that time was divided into one part of the political parties that had shown its willingness to participate in the creation of new legal frameworks, the existing legal frameworks, which wanted to participate in improving existing electoral conditions, I do not mean colleagues from the SRS, because they had a clear view that they did not want to participate in the talks, but participate in parliament's talks, they want their views to be clearly expressed here in parliament and they want of course to participate in the elections because they understand that democracy is only being held in the elections, and not in another way. It's for respect. I'm talking about another part of the opposition that allegedly talked about some election conditions, and he didn't want to participate in the talks, and he didn't want to announce what it was that we could do to improve these election conditions, except for the ultimatum I was already talking about. Then, at one point, as representatives of the SPS, we told the organizers at the Faculty of Political Sciences that we are expected to accept the requirements, accept suggestions and that it seems to us that in this way our hands are tied, that the price rises to the organiser, and that we still don't know what part of the opposition's position is that it doesn't participate in the talks, and that it has initiated these talks all the time. Of course we didn't get the answer. Among other things, I also asked the question – might that part of the opposition, whether you can agree with me now or not, are the participants in the talks, but does that part of the opposition have representatives in those talks? It seems to me that the period, Mr. Martinovic, after the talks and the campaign that some non-governmental civil sectors conducted, specifically after the talks we had, I think also at the Faculty of Political Sciences and Interparty Dialogue, I think that the campaign they were conducting, the statements they were making, in favour of the finding that they had their representatives all the time, who were presenting themselves, allegedly, as some sort of correction, I don't know how they defined them, as experts dealing with certain areas. We put together, on the basis of everything we heard, when it came to the talks, a fellow professor, Dr. Zarko Obradovic and I, on behalf of the SPS, participated in the talks, put together a proposal for a suggestion that is acceptable to us as a party, contained in 17 concrete points, and we are very pleased that all these 17 points were just included in what was the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Commission of the Republic of Serbia which dealt with this issue. I think that the government of the Republic of Serbia, I cannot agree there with one part of the opposition, again, that the government was engaged in declaratively, that it was engaged in banally, but I think it was dealing very responsibly, seriously, and specifically through concrete legislative proposals. We changed five legislative proposals in parliament, if you remember, and that was one big step, when we talk about election conditions. I think the electoral conditions are far better than those we had in 2008, only the malicious ones today can say it's different. I think, in some ways, a balance has been found between respect for the right position, from one, and the opposition, on the other. Of course, there are still many things to work on and talk about. When it comes to the fact that the opposition has been damaged in any way, Mr Martinovic mentioned a legislative proposal that, in fact, two legislative proposals, is so, which the SNS has submitted, I mean the reduction of the censorship from 5% to 3%, the question arises – how is the opposition damaged, when you allow the very part of the opposition that is not even able to collect or sign to try to have its representatives in parliament? We also said then that we believe that it is another step towards improving electoral conditions, because we will have a relevant public opinion in Parliament, because we will return political life to parliament. Both parties of the government and the opposition party, whoever it is in the coming period, will have to work far more, because we will have far more representatives in the republican parliament, too, what is essential – politics will be conducted in parliament and will not be run on the street. On the other hand, they're not true, either, not finding that there's some kind of written rule, I'm not a lawyer, but here, there's a lawyer here, correct me if I'm wrong, there's no written rule that election laws can't be changed in the election year. How could we, five electoral laws, change after the inter-party dialogue and talks we had at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and we couldn't talk and we couldn't talk specifically about the law regarding reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%? It's not true that this is how I said the opposition was damaged. Why doesn't that match one part of the opposition? Boycott's definitely gone. They probably thought that the boycott would succeed, that after the boycott, they would need one period of time, say six months, to try to create a general chaos in Serbia in order to reach an extraordinary parliamentary election. There will be no extraordinary parliamentary elections, nor will there be what they proposed, and what we all laughed at during the dialogue, some transitional government, the transitional provinceal government, technically or not, as they were already called, the province government, the government of the Republic of Serbia. So Serbia will have fair and democratic elections and will get a government that will have huge trust and support for Serbian citizens. At the end of this dialogue, we have very clearly recapitalised, both the authorities and the opposition, that a certain construction that leads to a democratic spirit has been achieved, which is extremely important for holding elections in Serbia. As far as European Parliamentarians are concerned, I must make it perfectly clear that the SPS parliamentary group is in a position. We have neither allowed nor come to talk to the European parliamentarians for one moment, we have come to talk to them to listen to the proposals and suggestions of the European parliamentarians, because we believe that everyone needs to talk to them. Perhaps some of these suggestions and suggestions are of quality and may need to be part of our legal proposals, if we are talking about electoral legislation. But we also said at the beginning, very clearly to the European Parliamentarians, that European parliamentarians should not and should not share the political scene of Serbia and of us who are participating in a conversation of similar and non-supervised and favour anyone and that there is no need to discuss electoral laws with us in the institutions of the system, and with one part of the opposition they are discussing... I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. And we'll talk about it. I don't want to talk about physical appearances, but something else does. But that they should talk to us in the institutions of the system, not in hotel lobbys, and while Mrs. Fajon specifically thinks that when you said this, Mrs. Fajon should not worry about democracy and freedom of the media in Serbia, democracy in Serbia comes true in elections and only elections can change the electoral course of Serbia, and as far as freedom of the media, freedom of opinion, freedoms speak are fundamentally postulated by a democratic society, which Serbia today is. It is very interesting that no one from the European Parliament, in particular in 2011, referred to the Verica Barac report that was just talking about pressure on certain media. I mean, of course, the European Parliament. Recently, a journalist asked me a question – how do you comment on the fact that European Parliamentarians, Mrs Fajon and Mr Bilchik insist that the Assembly meet? I said I felt absolutely no need to comment, but I am finally glad to understand that there is a parliament in Serbia as the highest body of the legislative authority and that the fundamental issues discussed in parliament between relevant water talks with relevant political factors and that they never had the need to discuss important issues in hotel lobbys, that it is nice to think about Serbia, but that we will know in the best way how to work in the best interests of Serbian citizens. You know what, we also said in the talks, if the European Parliament is the key issue of electoral conditions in Serbia, although I think they have far more important problems, and if this is a key issue for them, then when they organise debates on the topic of electoral conditions in Serbia, don't invite just one part of the favorite opposition, invite all of us, and then you'll hear a counter argument, and not only bring opinions and opinions based on what I tell you one part of the opposition, and all that's said, I wouldn't go into details now, were classic notorous lies. As for the concrete election, Kladovo was mentioned, I would like to say that the SPS participated in the Kladovo elections, that it had reached 31% of the vote and that we are proud of the result that the SPS achieved in Kladovo, that this is confirmation that we have come out with a good programme, that this is confirmation that we have gone out with people who are guaranteed to realise that programme. At this point, the SPS is in Kladov's opposition. We don't see any problem here. It is far more important for us that citizens recognize our work in this local self-government. I don't think there was, in fact, I'm quite convinced that there were absolutely no irregularities, because we have very good information from the people of our municipal board, our electoral headquarters who participated in the field. As for some of the things specifically mentioned here, and with that I want to finish, not to mention, but I have to mention one name, I am ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, during, I think, the day before when we spoke, said that Dimitri Ljotic once said that we do not need voters but fighters. That's what Mr. Bosko Obradovic does in Serbia. So he doesn't need voters, but he's looking for a way to reach power without a choice and privilege. That kind of incident is for every conviction. We have condemned it as a party and a parliamentary club, but you have to understand that when you don't have a policy, when you don't have a program, when you have a lack of political influence and power, then there's that most primitive behavior. This leads to a vocabulary that has long gone beyond the limits of some political framework and then sets itself up, I will repeat for what time, the fundamental question, is this politics and is this the essence of the existence of politics, or is this violent and violent behavior? If we are finally all, we have called on it many times in this House, whether we will all, and the government and the opposition to say -- it must not and cannot be a norm of social behavior in Serbia. We can think politically differently, if we have different attitudes, it's completely logical, multiparty system, it's not good that we all think the same thing. If everyone thought the same thing, they wouldn't think enough. But, allow me, the confrontation of opinion here in the O.R., in the tide, but not the force of force, but the power of argument. And, please no more, I repeat once again, that's what I was talking about a few days ago, don't try any more, one part of the opposition trying to make its victims out of itself, to cause pity to the citizens of Serbia. Tears and children are used purely for political purposes. I feel sorry for every child, but that patent was invented by no one sitting in this room, that patent was originally invented by those who aren't in this room today. When we warned them, wait for the men, where are the borders? We didn't ask our children to participate in politics. Leave the families, leave the children. Politicians are expected solutions, not to play victims and ask for compassion. If you wanted a different approach, and if you wanted to change something, I'm sorry, Mr. Gilas was supposed to hold Bosko Obradovic's ear and tell him to apologize to Parliament's president for having physicalized. That's not how a lady gets hurt, especially not the President of Parliament. Say sorry to the chairman of the board of directors for physically hitting on him. Say sorry to the press, because your supporters physically came after him. To catch Sergei Trifunovic telling him – stop, so you don't talk to the citizens. Now, then he would show that he wants to change something, then he would show that he is sorry, and like this, pure political promotion, trying to make a sacrifice of himself, to challenge pity, to try to find among Serbian citizens someone who today feels about the same as the victim, even though he missed both time and place, this is not the time when he ruled, when through such a kind of political marketing and political pamphlets there can be political points. Thank you, President. [[Alexander Seselj: Can the replica now, he mentioned me 15 minutes ago?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74115	How many times? (Alexander Seselj: He mentioned me several times a while ago. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74116	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. As for improving our electoral conditions and the overall democratic progress and these elections in Kladovo, I remember there were some bumps in relations between the two coalition parties from the republican level where one of these parties was prominent to the other party, to the home address of some Tambura orchestra to visit, and there were some axes and some props, I don't know if it's all according to European standards now. That may be confirmed by Mr. Ruzic, he probably knows more about it. It's probably just trouble in heaven among coalition partners. The question is, what would be the relationship between these parties if they did not rule at the republican level. But from Mr. Martinovic, we just heard an interpretation that the ruling coalition recognises the opposition's interest. Instead of hearing the opposition, she parliamentaryly, the one that would be relevant, the government itself, what is the interest of the opposition. These laws are passed today, and this can also be confirmed by the president of parliament, only at the request of a marginal political phenomenon, the "One of the Five Million" group, I don't know what these people who were at that meeting are really called, but Mrs Gojkovic was present, this was their comment from that meeting, and today they are being translated into the law here. As for not meeting the conditions from abroad. That's not true either. We have seen from the most banal things why you thank the Chinese and the Russians, it is not in line with the good relations between Serbia and the EU, right after that statement by Joseph Borel, the billboards took place in Belgrade – thanks to Europe, and before that was – Brother Si. So that's the attitude on foreign dictatorships. So it was with sanctions, so it was with everything coming from the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74117	The word is Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74118	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking all morning about electoral conditions, colleague Seselj mentions this meeting with President Vukic, and Mr. Martinovic mentioned it, when the decision was made to go with amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs and council members and to allow signatures to be collected in local self-governments, i.e. city and municipal administrations. Honestly, I will present an election list – Milan Stamatovic, Hello, to beat Dragan Jovanovic in the next parliamentary elections. We've collected 9,200 signatures before the emergency. Mr. Ruzic, I don't mind upholding this law after all. Why am I saying that? First of all, this will help in some of the next elections. This model we've had so far, which is the exclusive right of notaries to verify signatures, proved to be bad. The ruling coalition has always had the opportunity to influence the notaries to come to one office first and then go to another, and of course it's always first for those who have power and that's kind of understandable. The electoral list I belong to has been handed over to some 35 cities and municipalities so far, there are large cities such as Kragujevac, Loznica, Leskovac, Uzice, etc., where we have handed over more than 15,000 signatures at the local level certified by notaries, not to talk about other smaller municipalities now. I mean, when we're going to meet the electoral conditions, I'd be happier if we'd done this before all these conversations that my colleagues mentioned, and somehow it seems to me that we've been coughing all the time both as a Parliament and as a government. It would have been better if we had done this nicely three months ago when we passed the law changes and lowered the censorship from five to three percent. That's the first thing. The second thing, what I would like and what would probably completely change the image of Serbia, which is, I have said more than once in this National Assembly, to change the electoral law, and that MPs, the committees are elected by name. Then if the MPs, the committees were to choose on behalf of us, we would have no such problems, as well as the blockades of the Assembly and everything else. Here would be people who have integrity in their midst, where citizens would know who they were, who they were voting for, who they would know who they were putting their accounts to, not party champions who were the bearers of the list, but first of all the citizens who sent them to this Assembly, and therefore they would choose a government that would behave completely differently. What I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, but you probably know that already, here colleagues are also talking about successes in fighting the pandemic or the coronary epidemic, and that's all right. But I would remind you, we who live in the interior of Serbia, here in Šumadia, when we look at national media in the Corona era, we see, for example, that pensioners in Belgrade are being helped, and all pensioners who have pensions below 30,000 dinars. And do you think that in this Kladovo, Topoli, or in third place, we could do that at the bar? These are the things that are needed to be said today when we talk about changes in electoral conditions, because we want to say that Serbia is not Belgrade and that a complete decentralisation is needed, and that decentralisation can also come through an amendment of election laws. Go back to the place. As for the signature, I hope we can hand over the election papers tomorrow. Here, counterpart Seselj mentioned this, again to return to that meeting with President Vukic, we hope that, above all, the media with national frequencies will open up and that there will be more debate shows in the next period and that we will be able to all express our political views and talk about the things that are needed for life in Serbia to happen differently, that this Belgrade that we now have a little change and that we hear the voice of both central and western and eastern Serbia and, of course, our colleagues from Vojvodina, because that is the only way we will have a different Serbian Parliament. I would also like to thank the presidents of the Assembly and fellow MPs for their co-operation over the past four years. I hope I see you in some better congregation in a few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74119	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74120	Thank you, Madam President. Just one note about this billboard: "Thank you Europe". It has nothing to do with SNS. This is the cover of a single weekbook that is advertised and which has put the title: "Thank you Europe". So that's not what the SNS put on. Just so I can explain, that billboard and that front page with our party have nothing to do with it. I want to say something that's much more important. These objections about why we agreed to talk to the political parties that are in opposition, you know, it's a little bit of a world view. Those who ruled Serbia until 2012, and their image today is Dragan Gilas, they thought they knew everything, that they were always right and always made laws towards themselves, because they thought they would rule forever. The Serbian Progressive Party does not have such an ideological view of the world. We accept that maybe someone else might be right, that maybe someone else is looking at certain things better than we are. We never claimed that we were sinless and were always ready to accept the arguments that we thought made sense. So it's a matter of political philosophy. Those who ruled until 2012, they took a stand – we know everything, you know nothing. They took a stand – we write the laws the way we like them, and I don't care what the opposition thinks. And we said, "Let's sit at the table and talk." We also showed this democratic breadth, to accept almost all the arguments, almost all the suggestions, almost all the suggestions of the opposition colleagues who wanted these proposals and suggestions to be incorporated into our laws. Thanks to the SNS and, of course, to our coalition partners, we today, in our electoral legislation and in general, in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, have defined a functioning campaign, and we did not have it defined at the time when Dragan Gilas ruled Serbia. Today in Serbia, we have a 3% censorship, not 5% of what it was at the time of Dragan Gilas. We are the ones who have strengthened the control role of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and in the end, we are the ones who are going to vote and amend these two laws that will once again go to the opposition parties who have not yet submitted their electoral lists. We're not doing this because of the SNS, we're handing over our election lists. As far as we're concerned, we can start the campaign now, but this is not about us, this is about some others. In fact, we have shown that we have changed and that we are ready to change political clichés and political paradigms in Serbia, that those in power are not only thinking about themselves, but also that they also have an understanding for those who are in opposition. As I said the other day when we talked about confirming decisions, that is, the government of the Republic of Serbia's rule on the coronary pandemic, I spoke a little metaphorically of these in one part of the opposition as unmistakable people. Of course they're not sinless, but they act like they're sinless. When they're in power, they do everything against the state, they do everything against the citizens. Dragan Djilas, when he was in power, did absolutely nothing for the benefit of the Serbian state, nothing, first as the imaginary head of the fictional body, the director of some National Office of the Republic of then-President Boris Tadic, did nothing good for the state or as minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, did nothing good either as mayor of Belgrade. The only thing he's managed to do in all that time is make himself enormously rich. Today it bothers him when citizens from their buildings turn on speakers and then he hears – Gilas, thieves. He never said it wasn't true, he just said it bothered him. It bothers a thief when you tell him he's a thief. We ask him – how did you get rich by gaining 619m euros in a few years? He says -- you're dictators, you want to seduce the dictatorship in Serbia, you're tyrants, you're despots. No one, but literally no one called his child, no one, not at least from the SNS, as far as I know. Then he shows up in front of TV cameras and cries and says, "Here, they're attacking my child." Turns out Dragan Gilas is the only man, the only political leader in Serbia who has the right to emotions. Alexander Vukitch is the only one who doesn't have the right to emotions. Have you ever seen the front page of any newspaper in Serbia that shows up, for example, the children of Dragan Gilas in a negative context? I've never seen a newspaper like that, a magazine like that. I've never seen a week like that. But I saw dozens of front pages showing up on Alexander Vukitch, his brother, his son, his daughter. It's just that there's an unfeeling campaign not even against one party, the SNS, this is where there's a campaign against one man, in the most ground-based way, by hitting on the members of his family, and the worst part is that you hit on children. And when no one mentions the children of Dragan Gilas, he weeps in front of TV cameras, and when Aleksandar Vukic says – why you attack my children, attack me, attack the SNS, attack the Government of the Republic of Serbia, they say – Vukic is a dictator, Vukic is doing everything contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens, Vukic invented the pandemic, Vukic deliberately introduced the state of emergency because it suits him for political reasons, Vukic led a political campaign at a time of emergency. In no word did a man say SNS, not a single word. Asked everyone else, asked all of us, don't campaign while it lasts, invited everyone to engage in the fight against this global monster. That's what this is about. So we have a simply different political philosophy from those who ruled Serbia until 2012, and who would like to return to power again, but this time not by elections, but by street, by beating anyone who doesn't think like him. By causing chaos, by breaking into the institutions of the state, media, by blocking the entrance to the National Assembly, by blocking the Serbian presidency building and doing so for months. It's one policy that none of us sitting in this room, as far as I know, whether we're government or opposition, has ever served. Many of us have been in opposition for years, so it didn't occur to us, it didn't occur to us to physically attack a man who didn't think the same way we did. It didn't occur to us to stand in a cave outside the entrance to the National Assembly and say you can't get in. It didn't occur to us to knock a man down and kick his legs. It didn't occur to us to block the entrance to the presidency building, and we were great opponents of the regime back then, and you and we. We fought against the same government, and the government that was in Serbia until 2012. I'm proud that neither you nor we, we've served these means, this is political practice introduced by Dragan Gilas. This is his political invention, violence, intolerance, hatred, including all the media under my control in the fight against the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, spare no one, no mother, no father, no brother, no children, go after everything he owns. It's the political invention of Dragan Gilas. We never used it, and we'll never agree to it. We've shown one democratic breadth. When I came with my colleagues, there was Vlad Orlic, there was Dejan Djurdjevic, and there were some other colleagues of mine, we came to the Faculty of Political Sciences, one part of the opposition couldn't believe that we showed up. Why? Because they believed that we were people who didn't want to talk to anyone, and we came to talk and we talked, and we listened to all sorts of proposals and exceeded and many others, so we talked in the parliament of Serbia, not under the auspices of the EU, that's what I want to say because of the citizens of Serbia. No one has tutored us, and no one has directed this dialogue to us. Talks in the National Assembly were conducted under, conditionally said, political patronage, National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, and we ourselves said to come to those talks by anyone who will, we are ready to accept all suggestions, all ideas that come to us from either side and all that we thought was good at reforming our political system. We have accepted and installed in our legislation, although if I were to look at things exclusively from a party angle, most of these things are absolutely to the harm of the SNS, and it is absolutely in favour of all the parties that are now in opposition and that is what I will end up with. The Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandra Vukic, managed to change and that is what no one will be able to question for five or 10 years, or 100 years. We've changed the political paradigm in Serbia, which by 2012, has read, I know everything, I mean Dragan Gilas and similar to him, you don't know anything, the laws right towards yourself and your tycoons, not you. And we now say dialogue, argument and vote for what is not in favor of our party, but goes in favour of what is now in the opposition, because we all think, we who are in power now, that we are the state government, such as you are the state opposition. Don't forget in Great Britain, the opposition is called the opposition of his, or Her Majesty, so is Mr. Seselj. So the opposition is also part of the political system. What we do today and what we did months ago when we changed the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Law on the Financing of Political Activities and the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and so on. We have been changing from the point of view that we who are currently in power and you who are currently in opposition are part of the same political system and that there is no need to use any other methods other than political methods, and the only political method is debate, dialogue and conversation, which can only be conducted in parliament. Thank you again, and to everyone else sitting in this room today, for not acting the way Dragan Gilas behaves, because parliament is the only institution in which civilized people should discuss everything that is important for the citizens of Serbia. Right now, electoral conditions are important because we want these elections to be held in one completely fair and democratic atmosphere, so there will be no violence, no dissatisfaction, and that when the elections are over, however they end, and whoever wins, we can say that life in Serbia continues completely normal and that we will all be the government or opposition after the next elections to continue to work for the benefit of the state of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74121	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Now the right to the replica has Djordje Milicevic, followed by Alexander Seselj, I assume the replica. They're replicas for now of the people who signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74122	Mr Marinkovic, I will use the right of the head of the parliamentary group and the time that belongs to the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74123	Then after the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74124	Yes, if Mr. Seselj has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74125	Yeah, he's got a head start. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74126	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Well, we should perhaps see what the law enforcement intensities are to collect tens of thousands of signatures, or legal terms tens of thousands of signatures to go to elections. It is to remove those who are insecure from political life, those who are extreme, those who have no support and that they do not make a farce out of political life in Serbia, and that is why it is prescribed that only one who can collect 10,000 signatures can run in the elections. We have had the situation multiple times across Serbia to make these marginal appearances, hand over local lists and win fewer votes than they had signed to hand over local lists. Secondly, it is one thing to talk in the National Assembly building under the tutorship of the EU, as was the case in Serbia, and the whole other thing is when the National Assembly, or National Assembly President, initiates and talks within the constitutional position of the Serbian Parliament and the independence guaranteed by the Constitution. Not to listen to the euro ambassadors who hold a lecture here and a recommendation on what the party should do. It's not a dialogue, it's a follow-up order. And that's it. We've heard how if he were in Germany or France this happened in front of the National Assembly to get people arrested and so on, there'd be other arrests. Well, I don't know how we can ever enter the EU if we tolerate fascism on the steps of the National Assembly. Why don't we act like these advanced modern Germans, they arrest, they process, they don't allow that kind of behavior, they don't allow attacks on the MPs. And what's going on here? Nothing, TV shows for beating up Marijan Risticevic. So you're sending a message to tolerate such behaviour in Serbia, that it's not inappropriate. You can't say they'd look forward to playing the victim. Not true, Serbian citizens would welcome law enforcement and not allow violations of the reputation of the National Assembly and attacks on MPs. You may not have been able to arrest these with immunity and do not need to remove their immunity, but you could have all around them who were and who had no immunity, so their supporters would have seen that they were used by Bosko Obradovic and others and would no longer join them in such pointless actions and attacks on other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74127	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Replica, Dr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74128	That's exactly what the state did. So, the 15 hooligans brought by Bosko Obradovic were detained. One of them, in order to know you and Serbian citizens have already had 13 years in prison for serious crimes. So these people gathered here two days ago at the entrance to the House of People's Assembly to prevent the MPs from coming to their workplace and discussing the bill's proposals. So one of them has been behind him for 13 years. Some of them are already registered as drug dealers. Some of them were responsible for the crime of robbery theft. Not to give you all the details now. Bosko Obradović, better said, Dragan Djilas, that we are not lying, Dragan Djilas picked up people from the bottom of social life and sent them here to the National Assembly and used Boška Obradovica as a beating that should be pounded two days ago on the head of Marijan Rističević, today, tomorrow or in seven days, by who knows whose head. Just so you know what kind of people it is. It's about people who don't care about any choices at all, no democracy at all. They don't care what the topic is in the National Assembly. They don't care what the bill says. They're pure criminals. They're hooligans, they're bandits brought before the National Assembly to cause incidents. So the state of Serbia reacted. One where the state of Serbia has not responded, and it is good that it has not responded, and that is what Dragan Djilas wants, that, according to Bosko Obradovic, the MP, still a national MP, the force of the police to make Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Djilas appear political martyrs. They're still missing it in that script they wrote -- how political life should be happening in Serbia. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74129	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Mr. Seselj has the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74130	Only later have these people been arrested after our warning that, if the law cannot be implemented, if the police minister is unable to leave this place, not that everything is allowed. I'll remind you, there were more television cameras outside the National Assembly than Protestants, or people who protested there. That's how much it means from that event. The police absolutely did not intervene to attack the MPs. You know how? The conclusion is - if you don't want to deal with it, that is to say, to enforce the law and not allow the integrity of the MPs to be violated, then perhaps you need such things to happen to us. They tried to attack us, but we won't, we'll answer them, and you'll tolerate them, and then you'll see how it goes. So we have listened from the President of the Republic specifically to gather five million – there is no discount. And I support that. The street should not affect political life in Serbia and should not change its rule on the street and the SRS has been saying so since its founding. But I don't know if Mr Marinkovic was at that meeting, they suggested what we bring today to the National Assembly, not parliamentary parties, not parliamentary groups, but some marginal political phenomena that you face because you think it will come up with a good comment from the EU institutions, just for that. If someone can't collect the necessary 10,000 signatures to participate in the election, there's nothing to look for. We also saw in previous presidential elections that Nenad Canak is the most popular in Baja Garden. His autonomous politics, the Vojvodina Separatism, is the most popular in Baja's garden. We have seen some of the other parties now most popular in Jablanic and Toplička County, for example, and most of these MPs live, for example, in Vojvodina and do not have their representatives there, but have collected a large number of signatures.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74131	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Mr. Martinovic has the word. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have now agreed, so the President of the Republic has said well - I will not accept your blackmail, just to raise you five million. You can be gathered five million on the street, I don't accept your blackmail. If you want to talk, there's a place to talk in parliament and we've been having these talks and having them in parliament. I, what we talked about, don't see anything wrong, on the contrary, I think that's good, that it's beneficial for democracy in Serbia, that we should talk, that we should listen to each other. None of us know everything about everything. Someone knows more, someone knows less. But I guess that's why we all fought together and fought and fought to have a democratic and political system where people who don't think the same thing about some issues talk to each other. I don't see what's the other way to come up with a solution to the problem, except to talk to each other. As far as these 10,000 signatures are concerned, because of Serbian citizens, I would like to say this, it remains a condition for you to run for your electoral list, we are not reducing the number of necessary signatures, we are now only prescribing to sign for health reasons, because the pandemic is still ruling in Serbia, that signatures can be certified for MPs, i.e. for committees in local self-government units and in municipal, or city administrations, but 10,000 signatures as a condition for you to go to elections with your electoral list remain. So that doesn't change, it's not out, we just add that the signatures can be certified, these 10,000 signatures for parliament, or the corresponding number of signatures for local parliaments, so that they can be certified in municipal, or city administrations, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74133	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74134	By law, all participants in the election process should be equal, and we see that here some are more equal than others. The first three lists submitted for the 2020 elections have collected their signatures from public notebooks, where it is much harder to do this because of the slow procedure and because of the great crowd and because of the lack of surprise of public notebooks throughout the process, and some will now, according to municipal administrations, for much easier and much less formalism to collect these signatures and for them, a great deal of work has been made easier, and it is not fair to other electoral actors, not to talk about these others whose authority has collected the signatures, I don't count on that minority party. So, they were all supposed to be equal, not to be influenced by some, especially those who are now going to meet, those in Serbia's political life, in the electoral body absolutely do not exist. Why would it be useful for us to do whatever they want if they're not able to go out on their own and not be able to do it with public notebooks in the process. What would go out to meet them? Why do we need commendation from the European Union for that? It's like it's going to affect the quality of the choice. We should do what is good for the citizens of Serbia and that they can have political parties that have different programmes in the elections and that they can hear, that is, that the political programme of these parties comes to them through the means of basic information. And now that we're making up new parties to make up more people on the ballot, or more candidates, I think it's completely pointless. So in 2016, you listened in a similar way to the American Embassy, Kyle Scott, who was under pressure, or pressured by the executive authority in Serbia, the Republic Election Commission, and eventually inserted two parliamentary groups, i.e. two lists into the Serbian Parliament Ceda – Boris – Canak and DSS, Dveri and now that Bosko Obradovic is guilty of everything and you condemn his actions. Well, you could've stopped it then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74135	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74136	Just a few notes. First, the Serbian Progressive Party does not have a majority in the Republic Election Commission, which Serbian citizens should know, so we could not accept any blackmail and pressure over who should enter or not enter, as you say in the National Assembly. As for collecting signatures to go to the polls, so we don't do it for political parties, we do it for the citizens, for their safety because the pandemic, unfortunately, is still in Serbia and nowhere in the world has been defeated. So what we are going to say today about the election of MPs and about local elections is not because of political parties and groups of citizens who are going to participate in these elections, but because of the citizens who are to come and sign their own list. We do this for citizens, not for political parties. Ten thousand signatures for MPs remain still, it does not change. In no way do we question that number. We just want to put the citizens at lower risk in the pandemic conditions when they come to sign certain election lists. You're asking me why we didn't do it at first? Well, because we started collecting the signatures seven before the World Health Organization declared the pandemic of Coronavirus. So, at a time when we were collecting signatures, the pandemic was not yet declared, it happened a few days later, and in such conditions, we decided that because of their health, due to the reduction of the risk of getting this virus, we would allow the signatures to also be certified by municipal, or city administrations. In doing so, I don't think it's the essence at all, and it will have a crucial impact on who will win these elections, as I don't think it's crucial to define a functioning campaign, or to lower the censorship to 3%. The people well know and understand who has had results behind them for the past four years and who has not had results. (President: Thank you. I'm done. The people know very well who made new clinical centres and new highways and who has now provided masks, gloves, Skuffanders, respirators during the pandemic, who made it possible for the citizens of Serbia, who lived abroad, to be transported to Serbia. They know very well who has strengthened our economy, who has strengthened our military, who has established the best possible relations in Serbia's recent history with Russia and China. So, all of these Serbian citizens know very well, and that is why I am convinced that in the elections, which will be held on June 21st, they will precisely show confidence in Alexander Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74137	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The right to replica has Alexander Seselj. Please slowly bring this circle of replicas to an end, give others a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74138	In graduation, the only one more asking Serbia than the citizens of Serbia, i.e. the people, is the US ambassador. So that's what we saw in 2016. It was a free vote, who voted for whom he came up with draft results, and therefore the mandates in the National Assembly were divided. Therefore, for reasons of health nature, these laws are not changed, but because of pressure, i.e. because of some proposals and some marginal political phenomena such as the group "One of the Five Million". So you can't tell us that local offices or city or municipal administrations will be much better sterilized than public records' offices, and there's less chance that someone might get infected with this virus. So that's nonsense. The procedure is easier, there is less formalism and it is going faster and that is why it is changing, and what is scandalous is what is being introduced for the republican elections, because it was never in Serbia, nor before the public registers. The signatures were collected by a court-certifier in the territory of a local court, not a municipal court. The municipal council gathered for local elections, not republican elections. It's nonsense, it's mocking democratic principles. We see that the government in Serbia is ready to change the laws just to satisfy the interests of some small non-parliamentary political options, not that it should enforce the laws and write such laws to be in the best interest of our community, i.e. the citizens of Serbia, and that should be the whole point of all this, rather than going to meet to be an electoral ballot as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74139	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74140	It's not that the ballot should be which, as you say, is bigger, and I would say longer, than that the health of citizens would be less endangered. It will, unfortunately, be threatened because the pandemic is still going on, but we want the possibility of infecting to the least possible extent, and this can be much easier provided when your signatures are certified by municipal, or city administrations than by a public notary. Why? Because in most municipalities you have one, possibly two public notebooks, and there are a much larger number of municipal, or city officials who can be involved in the process of the citizen's approval. It's going to slow down, it's going to slow down, there's more space, there's more fresh air. So these are all reasons why the signing of the municipal, or city administrations had joined. But I repeat once again, it's not the point and it won't break the election score. Whoever confirms the signature of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it was a public notary, it was the people of the municipal, or city administrations, it was less important than what they call the results of someone's government. Either you have the results or you don't have them. We go out with the results in front of the citizens as a party. We're proud of everything we've done with Alexander Vukic over the past four years. I'd like to hear one of the bad things we've done. Is it bad that we built and built new clinical centres? Is it bad we made hundreds of miles of new highways? Is it bad that we make Serbia a free and sovereign country? Is it bad that we now have friends and partners in the EU, but also in Russia and China? Is it bad that today's economy is a hundred times better than it was in 2012? Is it bad that we've increased our salaries to healthcare professionals, doctors and nurses? Is it bad that the state of Serbia today can almost be the only one in Europe to buy for just a few days from its budget, not in debt anywhere, in business banks or abroad, for its citizens the equipment needed to fight the crown of the virus? So there is nothing wrong with the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. We're going to the polls with these results, and these are all the marginalities of political -- who's going to verify the signatures, whether it's a census 3% or 5%, whether you can come with an official car to a rally or you can't. I'm not saying it's irrelevant, but it's not essential. The results are essential – either you have them or you do not have them.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74141	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. (Alexander Seselj: Replica. I'd like to finish this cycle of replicas, if you'll excuse me, because you can't agree. I respect both your arguments and Dr. Martinovic's. It's obvious, but we're starting to repeat ourselves, so let's give Gjorga Milicevic a chance to say something. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74142	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I didn't use the right to replicate, and I had a basis for replication. Since several topics have been discussed, I will use, of course, the right of the head of the parliamentary group and the right to belong to the parliamentary group. First of all, when it comes to countries that, in a period when Serbia faced the biggest health challenge, helped Serbia. So I've said multiple times that this period, which is behind us, has shown that in the period when you're facing the biggest in the moment of the health crisis, you can only rely on two things. The first thing is their own sources, and here, first of all, I mean agriculture. We're an agrarian state. If it hadn't been for our farmers, who are heroes of this country, too, there would have been no good supply. The other thing is just good relations with traditionally friendly states. It is diplomacy that has proved not only to be a policy, but as a purpose to protect your citizens, how to help citizens who have found themselves outside our country's borders during the pandemic period, because the virus does not know the borders and it is good that Serbia has constantly appealed to community, to co-operation, to help and to mutual support. Why am I saying this? I don't want to criticize anyone at all. Gratitude to all, but this transparency that Mr Martinovic spoke of, the EU's gratitude certainly does not come from the ruling coalition, at least not from the SPS, and I will also say why. So, I don't want to criticize, thanks to all the countries that helped Serbia during the pandemic period, but simply, let's just talk about what's real, and you correct me if I'm wrong. The European Union has passed a regulation restricting the right of third countries to access medical equipment during the pandemic period. I'm sorry, we're not EU members, but we tend to be EU members, we meet our obligations far more than some others who claim to be EU members and could at least treat us as equal members during this period. Afterwards, they abolished it, but they abolished the moment the president of Serbia came out and said there was no solidarity in the EU, when Minister Dacic said that much faster assistance was expected from the EU, and then the regulation was then lifted and then then criticised, among other things, by Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. A little while ago, there were some kind of bumps at the local level, and I'm just going to say a few sentences about that. Every local environment has its specifics. The Socialist Party of Serbia is never and will never use violence for political purposes. At the local level, we go out with people, with programs, with people who are guaranteed to realize the program, and it turned out to be very familiar and recognizable in Kladovo, where we won 31%. We're not part of the opposition and, I say, it's nothing tragic. But local relations do not affect republican relations and there is no market between the republican partners, because there is one long-term and strategic partnership between the president of our parties, and this long-term and strategic partnership is visible through the results that citizens will recognize 21. It was only a little bit of time to talk about something that was an interesting topic. Someone has advocated that it would be good, since the Minister of State and Local Self-Government is there, so I'm talking about it, for a little while I think Mr. Jovanovic was talking about it, that it would be good if we had a majority system in Serbia. The majority system corresponds to the majority political parties and the majority political options. If we had a majority system, I'm fully convinced that one part of the opposition would say we're working on their damage. We believe that the proportional system that we currently have political reality in Serbia, and I also want to remind you that the proportional majority system, correct me if I am wrong, is here for senior MPs, amended in 1992, on the opposition's initiative. Then Slobodan Milosevic accepted to change the majority into a proportional electoral system and then one part of the opposition initiated and insisted that the censorship be 3%, and it is very interesting that when we talked about reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, they were against the 3% censorship. I think the proportional electoral system is political reality. There are several models of a proportional electoral system, and we can talk about it. Perhaps an even greater reality would be and perhaps it would be good to talk in the perspective about, say, a proportionately personalised electoral system, where everyone would know about whom he votes, where no vote would be in vain and where one part of the parliamentary mandates would belong specifically to political parties, and the other part would go from the electoral list to the result, how much the candidate achieved on his constituency. But these are all the things that we can talk about after these elections, and we certainly need to talk about the fundamental reform of electoral legislation. We, Mr. Minister, have discussed two key topics with you, important to us. You agreed to work together on that in the next period of time. We also asked the European parliamentarians, but we did not expect to get an answer from them. Namely, what is an important question for us? For us, one of the key issues at this point -- how do we prevent that after these elections, I don't think we're going to do it now, but think about it in perspective, that the parliamentary mandate should be the subject of political trade? We said that at this point we have about 25 independent MPs, 14 parliamentary groups. I don't think it's ever been in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia. The People's Messenger, the Witch of Radeta, throws it away. I have always voted in favour of your proposal, as you have voted in favour of my proposal. No, I know why you're asking. So how do we prevent the parliamentary mandate from being subject to political trade? There has always been a question of what is older - the will of the voters or the parliamentary mandate? You know, we were in a situation in this term that we had political parties in parliament that, enough to have money, buy a few MPs, and I don't even want to say it was bought, but, one MP went from the SPS parliamentary group to some non-existent party that didn't participate in the elections and they have their own parliamentary club. This is exactly the bitter experience we had in 2003, when the SPS, Mr Obradovic, correct me if I am wrong, seven parliamentary mandates were kidnapped and when due to a legal and political anarchy introduced by the DOS, we didn't know at one point how many MPs we had, whether 250 or 350 in parliament, because we no longer knew who was an MP and who wasn't an MP. For this very reason, we have initiated to come to a way, legally, how to prevent the mandate from being the subject of political trade, because we believe this is important for Serbia's political stability, and Serbia's political stability is a prerequisite for any further progress in Serbia. Also, we have proposed another amendment and we have also asked the European parliamentarians this issue. I personally asked Mrs Fajon, I asked her if you have a Rules of Procedure in the European Parliament and if you have a Rules of Procedure on Labour, does this Rules of Procedure provide for sanctions for those MPs who do not participate in Parliament's work? I'm sorry, you've taken responsibility. You have been given the mandate and trust of the citizens to do one responsible and serious job. Among other things, you receive salary in this House, you do not give up travel expenses, you travel abroad, it is your turn to participate, it is your obligation and responsibility to the citizens to participate in the work of parliament. Of course I didn't get an answer, but I think it should be part of the Rules of Procedure, which, by the way, should also be a topic at the beginning of the next assembly session, because there is no ideal Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When this Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, you know very well, then you were the head of the parliamentary group, we said that we see this as a transitional solution but that there are a number of open issues that we respect the advice of the professional public, that we respect the advice of the Constitutional Court, but that there are a number of open issues that we need to discuss and find final solutions. There was little time to talk about the media, about media representation. Mr Jovanovic, I am sorry that he is not here, but we have also been in parliament, among other things, was part of the talks that we have had on the relation of the government and the opposition but at this point we have included media representatives, and above all the media with national frequency because we believe it is perfectly logical that you have such kind of dialogue of government, opposition and media representatives with national frequency right before the elections. We discussed the representation of political parties in the media, and we said at that time that we were absolutely clear that we think that one part of the opposition wants to deal with the editorial policy of the media and that if they are present in the media, the media scene is good, and if they are not present in the media, the media scene is bad and that there are more than enough of this media moaning in the media. I'm sorry, the media privatisation strategy came in after 2000. You wanted capitalism – you got capitalism. Where does the need for you to participate in the private sector come from today? So the interest in media ownership is primary, and the media must and should be autonomous in decision-making. I will remind you, in 2011, although we were part of the ruling coalition, the SPS did not vote to amend and supplement the Public Information Act precisely because it would be a step backwards, when the SPS was exposed to the pillar of shame precisely because of the media. We felt that these changes and additions in 2011 were a blow to objective and professional journalism. Also, in that dialogue, I think we've completely agreed, no one had a problem with that. Mr Djukanovic even said – here is all the space on the media, show up as often as possible. We have absolutely no problem with that either. We have absolutely no problem. We said - media equality. Thematic debates, of course, we want to participate, because this is an opportunity to show your program, but also to show people who are guaranteed to realize that program. Of course, what is crucial, REM has declared its position, that it will give a regulation, when it comes to media with national frequency, and when it comes to private media, they cannot have a rule, but recommendations, because they are still representatives of the private sector. All the time we're here talking about important issues, about two important laws, and I agree and we will vote, of course, on these laws, not to allow some minority parties who cannot collect signatures, to collect signatures, but above all, for the safety of citizens. That is the essential reason, and believe that some parliamentary parties are also in trouble to collect signatures. I want to say that we, as well as our colleagues from the opposition party, as well as the SNS, had no reason and had no problems, but we collected our signatures on time through the notaries and handed over our electoral lists. But as we conduct the dialogue here, in the hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia continues the political monologue of the representative of the Latvian ideology, who says that we are making a coup here, all together, forty days before the elections, that if we adopt these laws, they will be in front of the Constitutional Court. We don't mind, let the Constitutional Court give its opinion, which calls for an end to the electoral action. Well, it suits him to interrupt the electoral actions, because I said, the only goal he wants to achieve is to somehow, without a choice, without democratically expressed will of the citizens, the grasp of power and privilege. He's not gonna take his hand. I repeat, we will have fair and democratic elections and respect the will of citizens. He says, June 21st, we're going to have anti-democratic elections. I repeat - we will have fair and democratic elections. It is quite clear, therefore, that they still need space to be present in public through incident situations, in order to try to profit politically through incident situations and to reach some political points. If you remember, how much memory does it serve me, maybe I'm wrong, so let's ask a question, did they come from what they said in Hilandar -- we don't have a party and we don't have leaders and we deal with family? Did they end up doing it? Definitely not. You know how, our people say that the prize is mostly given to one who rides, not a horse. This isn't where he gets the prize or the one who rides or the horse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74143	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74144	Thank you. It is unfortunate that in Serbia and the representatives of the government, first and foremost, representatives of the so-called government, and representatives of the so-called government. Pro-European oppositions are trying to solve all the problems in our political life and in our society by asking the EU for help, some of the officials, the former, the present, whatever. That's really not good. Guys, we're not stupid, we're not underage, we're serious people, we're serious people. We have to solve all the problems we have within our own country, and when it comes to choice and when it comes to it any problems, I am now speaking from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. A colleague mentioned earlier that the EU, some officials there, also made a decision at the beginning of the pandemic, is not providing assistance, approximately like that, to non-EU countries. Well, it's a fascist act and I don't know why you don't call it that. The fact that it was abolished because they intervened between Wolf and Dacic, it really falls into the line of jokes. But it is truly amazing that this EU does something like that, to close the borders as soon as the pandemic appears, and you keep telling us for 20 years that there are no borders within the EU. Whatever they do, it's good for you, you'll still listen to them. Here, it's mentioned here – they helped. What did they help? Why does no one today mention how much help we have in this pandemic from the Chinese brothers, brothers of the Russians, both materially and with our professional presence and with their experience? No, you're just what that Tanya Fajon tells you. Who cares what Tanya Fajon says, who uses to go through the white world about the cost of what's called the EU, which doesn't exist? It is a group of some officials there, and they have now shown in this pandemic that there is no EU as an institution, there is no.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74145	Thank you. The word has Gjorge Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74146	Thank you. Now a lot of topics have been launched here and many of them are both important and relevant, it's just a question of whether they are now, is this the time to talk about them now. I'll start at the end. It's this change in the electoral system, which is better majority or proportional. I also think that there is a need for more representative representation of citizens and greater personalisation of MPs, which is not achieved by these, especially by anonymous lists, where it is generally voted for by the leader and then smuggled through by many others. I would personally, and it would suit me, but regardless of what suits me, I'd like to vote for a man, but I'm aware of the lack of it. So perhaps some other convocation, in some, hopefully, better and more normal time, could seriously consider either a combined electoral system, which has reconciled or removed some problematic aspects and a proportionate and purely majorityal one, because it is clear that the majority works in principle – the winner carries everything, and on the other hand, I say, and has ensured greater visibility, i.e. greater subjectivity and greater presence and the role of the particular man himself on the list, and not only to be an anonymous number on that list and then, through the leaders, essentially, to enter parliament. But it's things that we're not deciding about right now, nor is it for that moment. Another thing, and I must immediately conclude my surprise that today I do not recognize Mr. Martinovic, as he spoke reasonably, logically, called for tolerance, made arguments, in favour of his political option and position, and along the way some blows or some remarks or regrets at the expense of the opposition brought forward. That's about how, plus-minus, it's supposed to look like this congregation debate. But the trouble is, I can hardly recognize it in that, at least so far, part of the debate, him from some other days, some other roles, especially some of his party colleagues. So, if in this tone, regardless of how much things have been said I disagreed with or couldn't agree fully, that in this tone, that this was what the meetings of the Assembly and discussions in the Assembly looked like, we wouldn't have had this political crisis, which I think we have. So, let's at least later, not to say in the end, to demonstrate, to see how about these discussions can look. And this pledoa for tolerance and to hear the voice and those who are minority and that voice that we disagree with, and all that is, I say, more or less beautiful and beautiful, but unfortunately, we haven't seen much of it in the Parliament of all these months, even years. And that's where the tone and the intonation were given by the representatives of the government, or the ruling majority, in my deep confidence. That's why we're in the situation we're in. I don't think part of the opposition is entirely innocent either. I think by using what they're using, I've already said that, but I must point out, the Assembly to send their political messages, even if the Hall of Parliament, shows indirectly that the Assembly is important as an institution. It is sad that only now, at the very end, when I say to me, I think of the MPs and also of the political parties, the actors, and God to me and to the citizens, one part, it is seen, among other things, and by the ratings of these transfers lately, but it is not the main criterion, so, as if the compensation is now realised that the Assembly is the most important institution, formally, constitutional in this country. Various legitimate criticisms both by the public and by political parties and by actors of what it looks like, as discussed here, should not and should not question the importance and importance and role of the Assembly and parliament. That was, uh, that demeaning, the exaggeration, I say, a lot of both stops. By the ruling authorities, she often humiliated the congregation by the way they sent these laws, as they initiated certain discussions, as much as required to do the urgent procedure. That, I say, has been changed lately, or what treatment it has been or what the behaviour of certain ministers here towards the MPs. So these were all examples of a humiliating and inadequate relationship between the executive authority and parliament. I say, part of the opposition is, I'd say, that's where I failed my exam, because it's unsatisfactory, more or less, justifiably, by the state of the assembly. They conclude that it's better to be on the street, under the tent, or on the stairs. This isn't a press conference. Of course, it's easier at a press conference, surrounded by your co-workers and colleagues, to express your political views. It's much more comfortable, more comfortable and more pleasant, but here, too, it should be possible to exchange opinions with those you disagree with. That wasn't always the case by the chairman. A good part of his colleagues in parliament has also created an atmosphere where it is not easy, but it is necessary. We must learn tolerance and democracy. Tolerance and democracy is to hear an opinion that we do not like, but the same way that we express our opinion or the one who is expressing his opinion must, at least minimally, at least elementally, maintain, retain the decency and preserve the dignity of the conversants, with a clear emphasis on which it disagrees. Later, at the end of the ballad, as if everyone had realized that the Assembly was not some toy, that the Assembly as if it did not exist, as part of Parliament says, is not the mere pendant of the executive authority who votes, I don't know, on the button, on the bell or whatever, but that it should play an important role, an important role in calming tension on the political scene. Unfortunately, the assembly did not play that role. The elections should have this important role to play at some point in this tension, that pot of political passions to unwind, to calm down, that political pressure to slow down and then move on. I'm afraid, or I'm saying that these elections, as they're scheduled, at this point on June 21st, will not have that effect and that fact, i.e. It's not going to contribute, it's all about calming these tensions and not being maintained, it can't be held in a normal political social atmosphere. I said there are political and health reasons. So, both of them, the media only transmitted this story of health reasons which is why I believe that these elections should be postponed, not because they want to rule without a choice, not at all. I said it, so some of my colleagues resented me. I think this request for, as it was, a transitional government, etc. It's not something I support. We, dear colleagues, are saying that because of the citizens, you know that, although some pretend not to know, but because of the fact of the state of emergency, we have come out of the box, these constitutional and legal frameworks. What we're doing today, have you noticed, have the citizens noticed that this is the first session in this House to be held on Sunday? Maybe she was, but I don't think she was either. So we're working on Sunday. Why? So somehow to force things into these frames, the elections could be held on June 21st. Why? Because tomorrow, the electoral commission, based on our decisions today, will cancel the clock, that stopped clock, and continue to run this election time. So it's all a little bit tight, so I'm saying that we had to continue these activities at least a day after we broke up the state of emergency. It was completely arbitrarily placed on May 11th as the date from which pre-election activities are being restarted. As it stands on May 11th, so can be put on June 11th or, as I suggested, August 30th. Yeah, both of them are extraordinary circumstances, because we had an emergency situation. I believe for a reason and justified, although some think it wasn't, but somehow they're too, I'd say, under one tension were these measures that are proposed and suddenly there's no danger of an epidemic. Serious epidemiologists, members of your team, our expert team, have said that the danger has not passed, said they do not know and that it is very possible that the virus was still there in January of the month. Citation: "I don't know how the elections will be on June 21st," says a member of your expert team. He speaks for health reasons, not for political reasons. He doesn't care about political reasons, I hope, at least. I mentioned it myself the other day, you know what our polling stations look like, you know how many observers there are. Under the current regulation, everyone in the closed area must wear masks. This should apply to members of the electoral board and should also apply to voters. What's that gonna look like? You know what our classrooms are or those places where, in most Serbia, it means most of Serbia, votes. It's not my only and main reason, but it's very important. You know that by at least half of June, no weddings, no prom nights. And that's very important for these people. I stress how important this is in the lives of many, from prom to wedding, so there are none, and you want to make choices. So I'm not saying anything to myself. I can't go out in such an election, nor can I invite someone out in such an election. I don't think political will contribute to stability either, i.e. I'm sure it won't contribute to stability. Going out to meet this proposal of mine, I beat it to some proposal to amend and supplement the law, not a sign of weakness, but a sign of reason, not to say strength, but at least of reason by the ruling coalition. Let's not pretend to be normal is something that isn't normal. It was too big a trauma and a shock for most of the citizens of this country to just say, like at some game, take a break, half-time, ta-out, so it's 60 or 50 days, and you say, we pick up where we left off. The alternative would be, and some colleagues suggest it from the opposition, an electronic vote, a vote by letters, etc. In the world of that, there really is, but what would that electronic vote look like in our case? Our citizens are not safe, they are afraid or despised or suspected that this in the polling station is not secret enough. In anonymous polls, they don't want to plead, because they're afraid and they suspect they're not anonymous and that someone is going to have their voice and their sympathy reported and published somewhere. Then how can he expect to be free to express his political will electronically and how many citizens are electronically written to do so? So there are countless reasons why it's not feasible or it is, but with one extraordinary pressure and some kind of rape. I didn't say rape, but rapes and citizens and the whole system to get these elections done. Finally, not to spend all the time, I have to say that this 100-euro measure, which many people mention and many criticise, I think it's okay for citizens to get that kind of help and support, but isn't it a little ugly and lame, if I may say so, that reporting and that 100-euro division coincide with an election campaign or even an act of voting? It seems too much like some kind of legalized bribe, or at least, here's how good we are, because it is presented, it gives good authority, gives Alexander Vukic the hundred euros personally. At this point, it takes reporting or voting in the elections. That's already a reason to move. On the side of what I believe, and I end it, that with the reasonable movement and this part of the opposition that for a reason feels that they are not conditions for elections, someone is boycotting, and someone like me, which is not for a boycott but feels that they have not obtained conditions for maintaining fair and democratic elections. Surely by early autumn, September or possibly mid-October, he would have changed his mind and taken part in it. You can say – we don't care, it's tourists, it's margin, minority, hooligans and what we care about their attitude. But I think that neither is such a minority nor such a margin, and especially if you really care about stability in the country, we should not ignore and miss the opportunity for anyone who has some weight and some support in the public to make a constructive contribution to political processes in Serbia, to be excluded from the election process. So you can ignore it, you can continue normally as if nothing happened, but I said it won't contribute to stability. Indeed, at the end, it is not good to bring down the entire opposition to the Alliance for Serbia, especially the Alliance for Serbia to Gilas, and Gilas to Bosko Obradovic. Everyone's here... Behind you, as it is not, and you have convinced me here, not me, but the public, that behind fellow Djukanovic and his call to that torch is not Alexander Vukic. President Vukic himself said he didn't support it, not for either one. We now need to believe that behind these torches, behind the repeated political stance, statements and calls on them by Mr Djukanovic neither stands nor SNS, your prominent MP, nor Aleksandar Vukic, and here the public should believe that behind Bosko Obradovic, who is the leader of a party, parliamentary parties, an independent figure stands Gilas and the entire Alliance for Serbia and the entire opposition. Let's be consistent. Perhaps indeed, Mr Djukanovic acted autonomously and did not stand the president of the SNS behind him, but then why do you claim that then he stands behind Bosko Obradovic I do not know Gilas, the Alliance for Serbia, me or someone third and fifth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74147	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is, by amendment, Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74148	Thank you. I have no intention of replicating. I've made my own decisions in my life, I'm not asking anyone. Sometimes I'm wrong, sometimes I'm right, I'm who I am, who loves me, who I don't care about, it's his right, but it's important that everyone has their own attitude and that they do what they think is right at the given moment and fight for their beliefs. That's what's important. I'll answer if it's necessary, and I've said it many times, as far as these torches are concerned, unfortunately I'm not an organizer, and I wish I was, and I'm certainly an incentivist and I'm still incentivizing. So I don't have that problem at all to say. Now, here we have heard one argument about the election, that for health reasons should not be maintained etc. You know, that logic if we followed, maybe the election would never be, because we have no idea when the pandemic of Coronavirus will end at all. There may never be a cure. Does that mean we should never have an election? The point is to control that the epidemic doesn't spread, and we have to learn to live with Coronavirus, because if we, I say, follow the logic that because the government and the World Health Organization hasn't yet withdrawn that there's a pandemic in the world, it might never pull it back, maybe this will rule forever. It doesn't mean that you can have a government, a Parliament or, I don't know, which mandate expires, you just have to have choices, because life goes on, you go on living with it, you have to get used to it. What to do, that's it. So that argument is completely unnecessary, because in many other countries elections are also being held. After all, the opposition can be a great argument. Let's say we don't have a lot of turnout or whatever, although I honestly believe that the citizens will come out, because their goal is to choose the power they want, but if there's less turnout, they say, well, you don't have legitimacy. Isn't that even something that's good for them somewhere? We are taking risks as a government because we will organise these elections on June 21st. They have to happen sometime. That's right. And of course we'll take that kind of risk on ourselves and responsibility to ourselves because there's no alternative to it. If we didn't give the election then you'd tell us that we're dictators, that we want to rule forever, that we won't give anyone a chance to vote, etc. I listened during the pandemic itself, i.e. while the state of emergency lasted – first there was a terrible criticism towards Alexander Vukic why no state of emergency was in place, and then when the state of emergency was in place, then there it was – there we were, locked us up in houses and wanted to make it impossible for us to think freely, to move freely, so now that the state of emergency has been lifted, it's no good now that the state of emergency has been lifted. So there are people here you can never please. Whatever you do, they will say, "Well, that's no good." I don't understand that kind of logic, but what you're going to do is, someone's going out with such an offer in front of the voters. What I would really look back on and what is very important is this media picture in Serbia. I claim she's a disaster because the media is divided. That's a fact. They're terribly divided and I don't like it at all. However, we have one body, reportedly independent, that does not respond when it comes to televisions that are not even registered here in Serbia and that violate the flagrant law and reacts by removing the show from me. We're talking about Vucic's dictatorship and censorship where, as part of that government, they take off the show, even in their recommendation, the TV on which I ran the show is not even under control, but I guess that's where it has to be experienced, and that's why I don't know what kind of muscles, but according to those who break the law in this country, they can't say anything, and then we talk about censorship and dictatorship, where I'm being censured as a representative of the government. That really doesn't make any sense. It's not about the media anymore, the roaming and the like, it's about what you're offering. If they had anything to offer, believe me, it would come to a voter. Don't underestimate what happened the day before yesterday and what fellow MP Nogo is, whatever I think about his work, really what he's up to is really not good and that it's something that's out of his mind, but he's something he's offered, and that's what people have caught up for, because people are asking you to offer them an alternative to whatever it is he's offering, no matter how crazy it is, no matter how much it's out of every logic and wit, but people have taken hold of something and he's managed through alternative media to get to the voters and to get to the people who are going out for the protests. Why can't I do it, Gilas and Obradovic, etc.? Because they don't offer anything except, in Wolf, we hate you. It's already been seen and people won't. I'm not someone who underestimates these people. Those people who were protesting something, I'm trying to get into their shoes. You must understand that not a small number of people in Serbia are watching television at all. I'm one of them. I don't watch TV at all. I watch sports when I feel like it's because I think, first of all, our political shows are "tok shows" so-called "tok shows." And what's offered on TV is boring and sterile. It's stupid for me to look at it. I don't like it. So where do people move? They move to social networks and YouTube. What's problematic about these channels of alternative so-called. is because the greatest ratings have something that is extreme. For example, you will always find someone who will threaten through Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, it doesn't matter, Wolf, and they will say, "We will kill you." This one will have a hundred thousand views, but out of those 100,000 people who looked at it, at least 95% will say, well, this one's crazy, this one's not normal, but everyone's going to look at it. You need to know that these alternatives to the media have a growing and greater impact especially among the younger population and that the little television has almost become irrelevant. We have to accept that. They've become completely irrelevant. We ended up here, and Mr. Martinovic was here, we were witnesses, we went to the Faculty of Political Sciences, we talked to people who were unhappy, or they asked to change REM and voter lists and so on. They never came up with a single proposal that should change the media scene, REM, it doesn't matter. They just knew they said it was wrong. If you were to ask them, well, how would you change it, a team before, because this is exactly the REM they made as they are, and they put only their people there, and when their people were there and they were directly on the party line, from Gordana Suša, to who I don't know, I guess that was great. And in their time, I'll remind you, when no social network was developed to that extent, you had two media, a Justice daily and a Radio Focus who were somewhere saying something against them. Everything else was straight to the Stalinist, the most primitive Stalinist method in the media and governance, where you had today a leader, a political one-media owner, I'm talking about Gilas who owned the press. So today, when social networks are developed to that extent, talking about media censorship and blockades can only be said by one who can't get to the voters, who can't take advantage of it. You won't tell me that someone who has over 100, 200 thousand views on YouTube, that he is now slightly less viewed than someone who is visiting on TV and perhaps more examined. The question is, what are you offering? Otherwise, I did say, I think Mr. Milicevic mentioned me, I didn't say – that, I don't know, I asked all the owners of television, editors, publicly, here and now please call the people of the opposition as much as possible. It is in our interest that they appear, because every appearance of them, especially the Alliance for Serbia, which I agree is not in the opposition set, and the right to tell you, I speak it openly, what they do, and how they behave, I rarely express my suspicion that some of us are working for us, because it is not completely normal how you behave. But our goal is for them to appear as much as possible and we would like them to show up as much as possible, because every single one of them is 5% more to us. I appeal, I really appeal to media owners to call them. But there's something else. They won't go. They don't want to visit either "Pink, or "First", they don't want to visit on "B 92". He's not going anywhere. Why? Because it's a commutative position for them to act as victims. X times are invited, I happen to know. I called them on my show, and they never wanted to come because they were comfortable playing the victim. Then they say, "Well, we will turn out to be Wolfs." It's not true, but you have nothing to say, and it's nice to act as a victim and, of course, go to the "N1" or "New S". And when we look at media freedom, just look at those two TVs. Take a look at the weekly "Time", "NIN", "New Magazine" etc. They're party bulletins. From cover to cover each text is directed against Alexander Vukic. The worst party newsletters of the Gilas Party of Freedom and Justice, as it is called. So, as far as the media is concerned, don't complain, because there's absolutely no censorship, no one censors you. Chuck, here's the REM that Tanya Fajon asked for, and unfortunately they got most of it, so I don't know what they want anymore, what they want. That REM, I repeat again, is taking off my show, and it's not responding to other things. After all, seeing how many of these alternative “jutub” shows you have, these are serious channels. You have shows that have 300, 400, some even a million starving. What are you talking about, what censorship? It's just the point of what you're offering people. If you have anything to offer, people will hang on to you. And what I have to say, what they underestimate, we here rarely some people who say -- we're not for each other, we're for ourselves, and that's what we had on Friday, we underestimate people. We can't underestimate that. You have one part of the people who, whatever you're telling them, have two themes, it's 5G networks and migrants, and whatever you try to rationally tell them -- people, it doesn't exist in Serbia, it's not a real problem, not they have a 5G network and migrants. It is then dangerous because these people are being manipulated and there is no rational conversation with them and these people can really lead to serious social tensions even though it is not a number of groups, but it has to be accepted that they exist. As you know, when you go out and you say you're against the vaccine, I agree it doesn't have to be binding, but they don't accept any rational conversation about waiting for people, if we don't vaccinate that there can be a really abnormal infection, that maybe our children can die. No, they don't have a rational conversation about it. And we have to figure these people out somewhere. This is the situation of the White Preletzic at your choice. That man won 10%. He was third in the election, out of protest because some people voted against the whole system. We need to understand these people, try to talk to them, try to get them into a situation that even if they try rationally to think, and not just throw ten topics, these two are impacting, 5G networks and migrants, and there's nothing more to talk about with them. To them it is the only topic they are talking about and as much as you tell them – people, there are 7,000 migrants in Serbia, everyone wants to leave Serbia, they don't want to stay in Serbia at all, it's not worth it, there's no way to talk to them. They know that there are migrants here every day, that they're going to buy us up, take the villages, I don't know what to do, and it's not worth it. You can't talk to them. We have to stop that. These social ones, as useful as they are, can be very, very dangerous because they're being manipulated and that leads to these tensions in society, which is what someone here is trying to say. I claim that Serbian society is not divided, you have one large majority Serbia that sees that normal, politely follows everything, looks, but you have extreme and left and right. These people are the most active on social networks, they think they're the only ones who have the right to think, they think they're just God's days, they don't come out of Twitter, they don't see that there's anything other than Twitter and then they say, "We're a people." That's very problematic. Please, in the pre-election cap, we're really holding on to these people, too, trying rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74149	In accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure, I'm moving on to the next amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74150	I wanted a replica of Mr. Djukanovic, but fine. The essence of my amendment is something that I was already saying here, that if I really wanted to democratisation the political process and the electoral process, then I should have really come out to meet the demands that I was already talking about here, which is that this census, or not census, rather than the condition of 10,000 signatures collected, has been reduced proportionally as much as the reduction of the censorship. So if it's 10,000, the censorship was 5%, now if it's 3%, it should be six thousand. This is especially important for the local, or committee elections, because everyone knows who participates, how complicated it is to collect these signatures for the committees and how much room there is for manipulation. With that in mind, I'd say that what seems to be now, this change in the way the signature is certified is really just cosmetic, and it is intervention in the electoral law. If we're going to formally stick to each other, we're going to make a point, we have a fact now that during the election process you're practically changing the Law on Elections. So, not during the election year, which someone says is wrong, I don't mind changing during the election year, but they are now changing during the election process itself. I don't think that's a bad step, it is, okay, better so and before Corona was supposed to sort it out, because this unnecessary favoring of the notebooks, em makes it a lot more difficult for the real subjects in these elections, they participate. So it's not disputed that it's happening. But I have to go back to what's the point here. I said, there's health care. Epidemiological reasons why the election decision should be reconsidered. There are also these reasons politically, because they do not contribute to calming tensions. There are also reasons, I would say, politely, if this is the period and during which you actually share these 100 euros, of course, it's not that someone is dividing from the pocket, but that kind of impression remains that the government is sharing 100 euros, which to the pensioners, which is what to all the other citizens who apply and during this process you are holding elections. It can't seem that way for people to buy, to buy their support. So, that's why these two things should be separated, plus health reasons, as I said, a member of our national team from the Crisis Headquarters says he doesn't know how the elections are going to take place on June 21st, says he doesn't know what happened to the crown, or the virus, whether he was in January or February at our house, and somehow gets the impression that the election was also called, or that there was an emergency on the button, as if it had been lifted on the button. I'm not about to continue the state of emergency, I'm about to let some lex specialize that thing bridge. But, like I said, imagine what those polling stations would look like, with how many dozen men with masks, no masks, and all that. I don't think the political reasons and the political tensions that exist in this society should be talked about, because it would be better for everyone to take now a really timeout socially and politically and try to reach a social agreement that hasn't been reached so far. It's a little painful for both the government and the opposition that announces the boycott and that she announced, and now I see that they're a little bit hesitant. But, I say, I wasn't for that boycott, I'm for going to the election whether I'm on them or not. The elections are the way in which political problems are solved, but in order to be elections, not just a mere vote, then there must be some necessary assumptions for that being ensured. I'm saying that at this point these assumptions don't exist and that it's going to be one kind of thing, again, I'm not going to say rape, but certainly rape, one general coercion to do it somewhere, to get it out, to see how much it came out and everything. I don't need it, which was mentioned by fellow Djukanovic or anyone else, that now, like, I'm rooting for as little turnout as possible. I am not rooting, I am rooting for a good turnout and for the elections to be really representative and for them to reflect then and this future parliament and to reflect the relationship between political forces. But that's not possible at this point, I say, for health reasons, which is for political reasons. And these 100 euros and a match of holding elections or voting with the allocation and sharing of those 100 euros are, I would say, the least of them, untasty and it would be good for the government to change and avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74151	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to inform you of a few things. Proved fascist and bully Bosko Obradovic took the hunger strike. I guess he's unhappy that he didn't hurt Marijana Risticevic much more. I want to inform the MPs and I want to inform the citizens of Serbia that my colleague Sandra Christmas and I will now go out here in front of the National Assembly and strike hunger until the judiciary and prosecutors in Serbia react to the fascist outbursts of Bosko Obradovic and everything he did two days ago and until the so-called objective and independent media apologizes to Marijan Risticevic for lying in a sense that he was holding a knife in his hands, not car keys. We are doing this because the last moment has come to an end for growing fascism in Serbia. So either there will be a free and democratic Serbia or Serbia will be a fascist state. In this act, we want to show that Serbia is a free and democratic state and that fascists cannot win. Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic, for letting me say this. Here, I ask my colleague to go out with me in front of the National Assembly and fight together to leave our children in an amannet state that is free, which is democratic, which is sovereign, in which everyone has the right to speak their mind, but in which no one has the right to beat another because he has a different opinion than he does. I ask the prosecutor's gentlemen to imagine very well why until now they have not responded to the crimes committed by Bosko Obradovic and which have been committed by supporters of Dragan Gilas and I hope this is the last moment for the prosecution to finally wake up in Serbia and bring the fascists to justice. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74153	I'm setting a five-minute break until I speak to the MPs. [[after breaks]] Dear MPs, I spoke with our colleagues Aleksandr Martinovic and Sandra Christmas. They're starting a hunger strike. They asked me to continue the session, because this is not a protest against the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or against you and they asked us to continue our regular work and I will do so. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74155	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, my advice to my colleagues, if they strike hunger for the fascist Bosko Obradovic not to do so. He's not worth the attention. He's just not worth the attention. If they are doing this for the prosecution, which does not haunt this kind of phenomenon, whether it is Bosko Obradovic, whether it is Dragan Djilas, whether it is Bastic, then I understand my colleagues. In that situation I would join them, however, because of health problems that I do not want to describe, I am physically unable to do. I repeat, my advice to my colleagues, if they do it for Bosko Obradovic, he is not worth it. If they do so because of the appearance of Bosko Obradovic's leader, because of Bastac, Gilas, Bosko and other violent acts we have experienced in Belgrade since the signs were torn, the presidency, where the prosecution's reactions were not at all. If they do so in order for the prosecution to start doing its job in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, then I understand. I want to tell you that we don't have a problem with the opposition either. Our problem begins the moment Solak and Gilas are trying to preserve the monopoly on this market because of Telecom. We have a problem with Solakov and Gilas's business. Those who have bought their story, about this – democracy is not an import nor an imperial product that can be imposed on the outside, democracy is a process of maturation, something is happening within a society. My impression is that those who are allegedly boycotting, who are demanding a postponement of the election for a year, two years, etc. Many of them have a financial reason and I'll say it in the afternoon, so that their parties and they get that money personally, etc. I think the main motive of Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, who did not participate in these elections at all, and who gained 11 MPs in a very strange way, acquired very strangely political parties that were reregistered for their benefit, etc. I think they're trying to outside, with media attention, unregistered channels, many unregistered parties, so you have a media landscape that, we've dreamed of letting us register television, etc., to present opposition programs, they act on unregistered television, there are unregistered political parties who call themselves so-called. movement, etc. There's no movement register. Our dream was to have the election before the time, and these dreams of the election not being held at all. Why? There are financial motives for Boško Obradovic and Saša Radulovic, and these have motives for external natures of allegedly democracy, i.e. that they are natured as power. I have to say, it's not popular, but Tanja Fajon is officially or unofficially their spokesman in front of European institutions, with media support, media sponsorship of these two televisions is all happening. I remind you, an attempt to invade the presidency, more attempts to invade the National Assembly, more violent attempts by Bosko Obradovic. You've got those Bastaches, bags on your head, etc. So, I understand my colleagues if they want to force the prosecution to do their job in a certain way. As far as these signatures are concerned, let's be, let's be, let's be, let's be, let's be, let's be, let's be, let's be, let's be adversaries of Milosevic, let's confess something. I told him all sorts of things while he was in power and while he was alive, especially when he was in power. The moment he lost power and died, I don't measure the dead wolves' tail, and in front of fascists I won't retreat, but in front of dead Milosevic I have nothing to say, I told him everything while he was alive. Let's just admit that in the first election, we went out with 100 unconfirmed signatures. Let's be fair enough to admit it. Probably his motive was that the opposition was weak to give as many candidates as possible, to go to elections, to measure in a certain way and to get support. Let's face it, it's not his fault he won. Count in the 1990s all the votes the government received and the opposition that came out specifically and you'll see that it was half-and-a-half and that we from the opposition were ourselves guilty of going out like that. Let's admit that the signatures collected at a maximum of 1,000, as I recall, not certified, you've also been in politics for a long time, you've participated in elections, not certified signatures until 2000. Let's admit that the signatures have been certified so strictly, rigidly, since 2000. I guess he tried to stop himself, to preserve the monopoly of his parties, to prevent other participants from coming out. Here, I also support that the Vlachs only have 5,000 signatures, no matter what I object now. I support what is allowed for this national group to point itself out and go to elections under more favourable conditions. Because it says the degree of democracy is valued in one country by the rights of minorities they enjoy, and many of my colleagues know it, in that country. Now Tanja Fajon comes and says – e, but I am worried about democracy in Serbia. There are 4,033 Slovenians here, they have national minority status, national councils, we finance their culture, publishing work, etc. The Serbs there are thirty times as many in percentages, which there are 40,000, ten times as many, have no rights. She comes here and acts like an occupier. She's an official unofficial spokesman, they're media sponsors and they want a democracy that's going to be on the outside. Then it's not our democracy, it's not democracy at all. That is why I support that we have allowed as many participants as possible to participate again, to revive the political scene, to make local political movements with a procedure of facilitating the collection of signatures and so on, can qualify, as once qualified by the DJB that through social networks and so on, free media can be participants. Why should I keep the stereotype political parties that have ruined this country? Why would I keep them here if only they had money, that only they could collect signatures, that only they could participate. Let everyone participate, let them win the best. I invite citizens to participate in the election. The power is chosen by those who vote, and God damn it affects those who boycott the election. That's why I want everyone to decide who's gonna be the government, the active choice, not the passive stay at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74156	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74157	Here, I'd like to point out one scandalous manipulation that's been going on since this morning, and it's all used for elections and at a press conference here, I've shown it. I didn't understand at first why Mr. Chevarlic suddenly came out and started that hunger strike, but now I'm going to show people what manipulation is about. Namely, the disputed statement, otherwise torn from the context about where Kosovo is allegedly being told about independence, and about what Aleksandar Vucic was saying, was not given yesterday, although someone on the YouTube channel tried and put the date on May 9th 2020. The statement was made last year, you have written on the N1 portal, May 5, 2019. The statement was then taken from the context and is a year old and a few days old. And then you see how someone's cheating, because I have a video on YouTube, and here I can show it, it was given on May 9, 2020. What's this about? What's this all about? Then as we go and strike hunger and act, I don't know what. Now, that's what it's all about because some best-looking way of manipulating, and you see the video where Alexander Vukitch is in a sweater and a shirt. Well, does anyone really think that someone's crazy that at 26 degrees yesterday or the day before yesterday, they're gonna be in a sweater and a shirt? Look at what someone's serving. Does this make any more sense? Then we strike down hunger and act like a circus and then apparently Bosko Obradovic when he saw the frog get wet, so will she, because the martyr has nowhere else to find support, so if he can go to the city transport to look for it, then he also joins the hunger strike for it. The worst manipulation tried to trick people. This really doesn't make any sense, and I was obliged to react, so here's how an election campaign is run. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74158	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74159	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as much as they throw themselves here, are calling out who knows what this one is going to say, won't say, Serbian citizens have the right to hear and Serbian citizens have the right to know that a political campaign is being conducted by those who are now out on strike, and those who are funding, sponsoring, and how they and on social networks continue to abuse the freedom that exists on social networks today. I was sent, about an hour ago, that announcement, if I'm not mistaken, may have been about two, three hours ago, where a certain Branislav Stanisic wrote – it's okay to attack the children of Gilas, but not Vucic's children. Maybe we should kick Wolf's bastards, just to get the Nazi Wolf to land. Here, I think of the citizens of Serbia and of those who are getting upset, those who are excited, those who strike outside, thinking of Boško Obradović and Ševarlic and all those experts and idiots who every day refer to the most monstrous threats to the children of Aleksandr Vukic, children of all officials, members of the SNS, each of us individually, those who endanger the property of each individual SNS member, the SNS supporters, those who voted for Alexander Vukic, who are referring to the most monstrous possible threats, swearings, experiences, which are being spread through their so-called so-called. To the media of each and every one of the supporters or members of the SNS, I call, here are those who call for tolerance, for humanity, I don't know what fine relations, for some nice river, for a wonderful vocabulary, to condemn these things publicly, or for a session of the National Assembly. That those who only hold conferences to come in and say publicly to Serbian citizens in a direct transmission that these things condemn. Then we can lead with such monsters any dialogue. What kind of dialogue do you have with people who keep quiet about this? What kind of dialogue do you have with silent organizations, and I don't know, UNS, NUNS, who's keeping their mouths shut about this? Where are the silent organizations, the various NGOs when anything happens to someone from the opposition, and nothing happened when Dragan Gilas cries with his false tears in front of the building where his children live, and no one even mentioned his children? I'm asking, here are our MPs, anyone in the O.R. here, do you know the name of one of the children of Alexander Wolfie? Do you even know if he has a son, a daughter, who he has? Do you know anything? No one here knows what his children are called, or where they live, or should we be interested, or should that be the subject of politics? The topic of politics should be programs, ideas. The election's on June 21st. Let's hear what anyone's offering. Well, we won't all agree with each other, of course, because there is a power, so there are parties to the opposition, it's all natural and normal, but this isn't normal, this cannot be kept quiet. You know, no one said anything about the children of Dragan Gilas anywhere, and he allegedly started to whine in front of the Vracar building, so he started banging into those pots and pots, so he had as much brains in that part of the opposition as he had in one pot. There's nothing. He has no brains, no morals, no cheeks, no scruples. It doesn't matter what he wrote. He needs to be processed anyway. He is inspired by the political, fascist action of Bosko Obradovic, beatings in the hands of Dragan Djilas and those who spread it, sheruje, divide further by their own, what they call the media. Will someone today in that news condemn such a thing, say that someone's children should be slaughtered, in this case the children of the President of the Republic? Will one organization condemn it today, or will all of you in that part of the opposition be silent, nod your head and look palely at it? If some idiot had written that to your kids, I'd have condemned it and I'd say it's a monster whose party, whether he's a member or not, has to answer and has to be arrested. Doesn't matter if it's a member of this party or that party. Kids are children, they don't know membership in any party. Don't involve children in these things. The fact that someone wears this or that last name doesn't matter. Therefore, it must not be subject to political or any other experience, threats, and far from anything worse. Someone here is calling for the murder of the children of the President of the Republic. Calls, maybe even a bigger lunatic to reach out to that kind of thing. The other day, we had an arrested man preparing ammunition for the assassination of the President of the Republic. Someone inspired him with his life on Twitter, on Facebook, on his Instagram, and who knows where everything, he found himself some kind of fake hero, and I don't know what he needs to free Serbia. From what? To free Serbia's money? That that bastard Dragan Gilas has more money in his pocket, along with Solak and other monsters, Jeremic, Obradovic and others. The one that looks at the marijuana plantation. Well, when the press leaves, all they do is shoot chickens without marijuana, what then? Then be quiet. When a photo montage is published, where they insert Daniel Vukic and when it's proven to be a photo montage, it's quiet. When it turns out that Marian Risticevic had no knife, but had a key chain, he had a key to his car, silence. And there's never any excuse. There's never an apology from those who invite us to conduct some kind of civilized dialogue here. Well, who insulted whom of them? Nobody. What kind of decency? We're talking about decency here. Here. And all those who talk about that courtesy of that part of the opposition are using social networks. Well, come in, and write by name and last name, my friend, we are not for it, we have some policy, we are not for the threat of children, we are not for it to enter the National Assembly, but for it to enter the elections. You have the election on June 21st. No problem at all. You don't have to agree with the SNS, you don't have to be for Alexander Wolf, you have the right to think differently, it's your business, it's your personal commitment, but you don't have the right to involve the children. Shame on you, you who inspired this. This lunatic is for a nuthouse or for a prison. But the one who inspired it, what immunity? We talked about that immunity. MP immunity, what, frees you from beating someone. So when you beat someone up, I have immunity. And invite people to violence, invite them to destroy the constitutional legal order of the state of Serbia, then immunity. So, what kind of immunity? How far are we gonna go? Let's in some next term and talk about it, let's define exactly in which cases this immunity applies, in which cases you have the right to appeal to parliamentary immunity. It can't be infinite, infinite, so you can do whatever you want. If you're elected to office, let's go live on, then now over everyone. I'm a big guy, now I'm gonna threaten, I'm gonna have immunity for four years, purse, bow, official car or whatever, budget money, and I can threaten, but I'm not gonna come to work, but money's just gonna lie in my pockets, money goes to the bank, which is from abroad, which is from the budget, which is what's legal, which is how it all goes to black funds through Dragan Gilas and the rest. Yesterday he said, no matter how much it costs, I don't have to go to the election. Of course, a man is full of money, he's got money, he's gonna pay for chaos in Serbia, he's a conscious man, he might even boycott those elections, he'll always boycott them maybe, just because he can't win those elections. People in Serbia will not vote for it, however you're committed, it's not what you see on social networks is not the mood in Serbia and it's not a picture of Serbia. You can make social networks of thousands of different profiles, with various IP addresses, to enter and open e-mails and create different profiles and write whatever you want, but it's not a picture, it's a picture of when you go to elections, it's a picture of the campaign, and it's a number of voices, so RIK tells you how many votes anyone has received, so the final results, so you come to parliament, it's a picture of Serbian citizens, their electoral will and what citizens of Serbia want of us. It's not a picture of someone sitting by some name of Pera Peric and writing something on Facebook, and now like us, we're a people, we're citizens, imagine. They don't say they're citizens. Here, I live in Old Town and they chase that "d", "d", they change speech. Yesterday I saw one of them, so when I look at him slapping on a sherpa, he's hiding behind a towel. Well, they too are ashamed to be, and that shame will be even greater after June 21st, because they won't be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74160	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. It's a business thing. (Alexander Markovic: Which member? )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74161	Member of the 107th President, dignity of the Assembly, I think it's harshly violated. I really didn't move often that member, but I think you were obliged, although of course you can't intervene on every statement by the MPs, but it repeats so many times that without any warning from the chairman of the most terrible things here are heard at the expense of political opponents, but now I'm not even talking about what's just being said here, you bastard, Dragan Gilas. The other day, on the other hand from the same place, we heard from the same speaker, the bastard. Also, someone says it's counterproductive. So those expressions just can't be heard here in the National Assembly and you know it, Mrs. Gojkovic. What's worse than that, I appeal to you, to everyone, to my colleagues, if I wrote something, or to one of the MPs, or to one of the leaders of the opposition or government, it makes sense, although it doesn't need to be exaggerated, it makes sense to quote and read here. But to take it off the network of anonymously alleged tweets of alleged people, who may exist and may not exist and use it as an argument against political opponents of the type -- to stone, to anyone, let alone children, to anyone, of course, that I condemn and any normal condemn. But not only that, I condemn even mentioning and quoting it, because it also creates an evil atmosphere. How am I supposed to know that maybe it wasn't one of the government activists who wrote to accuse... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74162	I find this an insult to all of us. This is a terrible insult you've just said. I'd really like to hear you say anything about what happened two days ago. In addition to that, let me tell you, I don't know who said they're drug dealers who were here the day before yesterday with Bosca Obradic's bastard, I said they're a tow truck and I don't take that word back. If you were thinking of me, yes, drug dealers convicted of long-term prison sentences are for me tows and criminals. I don't know how you defend them and how sensitive you are now that someone said about them that they're thugs, criminals, or quits? I'm just shocked how they could come up the stairs here, near the door, where we work, where we come in. It's all a congregation. The Assembly isn't just this joke. I'm worried about that. And I'm told what to say about someone who's been sentenced to 13 years in prison for dealing drugs, I'm being dragged away. You apologize to them, I won't. No matter how dangerous it is to tell a criminal he's a wimp and a punk. The fact that you can't say a sentence is threatened to the children of Alexander Wolfich, but to anyone, this one, that's your problem. That's not the problem with parliament. This one, that one, you can't say a sentence-- the children of Alexander Wolfich are on the line for days. And they're not anonymous tweeters, they're signing. What's the problem with saying? That's no problem. The children, this one, that one, Dragan Gilas, were not the object of the attack. And that's fiction. You know that, too. No one mentioned those kids. And now it turns out that those in my environment can stand that it was me, how it was said in public, fuck, jerk, jerk, like this, like that, my cousins, kids in my environment. They don't need that to bother them. And when someone yells - Gilas is paying back the money - then the kids are so excited. So, spins never enough. I, Article 107, defend the dignity of the National Assembly by defending one of the tweets and a second to approve, perhaps in another life. But I'm not that. (Alexander Seselj: In the next session.) Maybe in some kind of coercion. But I'll always tell criminals they're criminals. I'll always tell the dealers they're drug dealers. I'll always tell the bastards they're punks. That they're skewers - they're skewers. What were they doing on the stairs with three MPs? I'm interested in that. And how did we get them to come and block the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? That's the subject. They are not themes - you did not interrupt the previous MP. In the sea of what we've been listening to here for months outside this building, now I haven't interrupted the MPs, someone's sensitive because someone's tweeted, that the children of Alexander Vukic are being targeted again, that someone's going to rape them, that someone's going to kill them. George Vukadinovic, George Vukadinovic, what can I tell you? Article 107 is not injured. We can vote on that. There are different criteria for voting. But, always most, at least in democratic regimes, give an assessment. As many votes as you have "yes", that's the assessment of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. When it's different, I won't be involved in politics, for sure. I'd like to ask you to move on. The MPs strike hunger and we talk about sensitivity to someone's statements. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74163	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the permanent dirty campaign against Alexander Vukic, the SNS, members of the Serbian government, the campaign of spinning, the campaign of lies, the replacement of the thesis and other manipulations continues, and the examples of this and the evidence here are we from the SNS all morning. The campaign stems from those politicians and their media, and their journalists, but I would say "journalists", or journalists who only pose as journalists and hide behind that profession, and in fact are ordinary political activists who get orders for their work and, of course, money according to that from a centre, which is Dragan Gilas. And they are ready for days and weeks to drag even the children of political opponents, the children of Aleksandar Vukic, as counterpart Filipovic earlier showed, but also to relativise the brutal beating of the MP, our colleague, Marijan Risticevic. And they're willing to banalize it, like it never happened. They are ready to relativize it, not to say that it is pure fascism at work, the fascist fallout of MP Bosko Obradovic. It wasn't like that for them. So we have news that Marijan Risticevic wore a knife and other nonsense in the sense that we had the opportunity to read and watch. And the N1 television went one step further in reporting the events in front of the National Assembly a few days ago, so they said that, I now quote, Marijan Risticevic was recorded entering the Assembly with his jacket torn up and that's it. So Marijan Risticevic was filmed entering the National Assembly with a torn jacket. That's news for N1. That's how they spread that news, so now you think about how the jacket got torn. Maybe he fell, maybe he ripped it himself, maybe lightning hit him, etc. That's the manipulation, that's the replacement thesis. To what extent is this banalisation and this relativization of pure fascism in Serbia? Next is likely to write that Marian Risticevic, in fact, hit himself, beat himself, ripped his own jacket. That's why N1 television is leading the media in Serbia by unprofessionalism, by exchange of thesis, by subjectivity, by false news and a dirty campaign against Alexander Vukic and all of us from the SNS. The duty and obligation of each of us, every decent man, every institution in Serbia, is to say - stop fascism, stop violence, stop Gilasov and Boskov beatings. The chairman, I would like to give strong support to my SNS colleagues, the head of Parliament's group Aleksandr Martinovic and counterparts Sandra Bozic, who have decided to start a hunger strike because they want the judiciary and the prosecutor's office to finally start doing their job in Serbia, to stop these fascist attacks by individual representatives of the people in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and attempts to introduce fascism to a small door in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74164	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74165	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I will agree with everything you said during your earlier argument, and I will repeat once again that we must finally put an end to and that the basic norm of social behavior in Serbia must not be violent and violent and that the prosecution and the competent authorities and the competent institutions must finally react. We fully support the position of colleagues from the SNS. On the other hand, today at the beginning of the session you were absolutely right when you asked Mr. Chevarlic – what do you really want to say? Four years in this House, you don't even know the Rules of Procedure, you're actually trying to abuse him, and you don't know how to abuse him, and on the other hand you don't even know what you're trying to say. Then, in all that, he tries in one political way, because he is definitely more politically minor, irrelevant, you know, you come from one parliamentary group, and then you leave that parliamentary group, be some kind of stand-alone MP, unrecognizable, invisible in the public, invisible in parliament, you need political points, you don't know how to get these political points, and then you figure out -- I'll strike hunger. What's your hunger strike for? Because someone betrayed Kosovo and Metohija. Who betrayed Kosovo and Metohija? Then Bosko Obradovic attaches himself to him as a political leech, as they joined this protest at 20 hours. In fact, not a protest, I'm sorry, but 20 hours when we were all supposed to go out and applaud Serbian heroes, especially health workers, but also all those who helped make this system work at one of the most difficult times, so one part of the opposition, as political leeches, attach itself to 20.05 hours thinking that they are politically profiting. So Bosko Obradovic, since he's probably exhausted all political ideas, he's attached himself to some protest or hunger strike, as they define it, because there are no more ideas, no more ways to reach the incidents, because it's becoming politically too minor. What did the president of Serbia say and how did the president of Serbia betray Kosovo and Metohija? Because he said something that is true, something that others are preparing and because he said he called in Serbia for internal dialogue and because he asked a question – well, now tell me what the solution is? And because of the opposition's insistence that one of them sits on the stairs today and strikes hunger, they insist, correct me if I'm wrong, to hold a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the Kosovo and Metohija issue, in fact submit a report on Kosovo and Metohija? Everything they had to say could come to that session and say, absolutely anything. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the president show readiness to face problems, to answer difficult questions. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a very difficult issue, both the president and the government understand that it is very important that the dialogue continues and that dialogue has no alternative, but because there is no dialogue it is not Serbia's fault and no one can blame Serbia. Serbia is doing everything possible to reach a compromise and fair solution that will be acceptable to both sides. Both the president of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia are leading, in terms of Kosovo and Metohija, a masked policy, but a maskless policy. The truth must be the basis for finding a compromise solution on Kosovo and Metohija. And the president appeared before parliament and spoke very openly about it. We then made it very clear – no matter how difficult this road is and how difficult it is for us and emotionally difficult and not a bit easy we have to continue this way, because there is no other way and there is no other direction. But in all this, we have to be real to ourselves, first of all, and accept mistakes when those mistakes have been made. It is not Kosovo and Metohija lost as others would have wanted, but it is not ours as we would have wanted, but it is a question – why were those who were not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's hall for a long period of time hiding many things exactly in terms of Kosovo and Metohija? Let me ask you, are the APBs the political leaders you had to talk to? Did the resolutions change on the plane? Why did they transfer Kosovo and Metohija from New York to Brussels? Why did the International Court of Justice ask the wrong question? Why are the border crossings? All around the border crossings, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, was completed by 2011, and it is known which put the paragraph and the signature on it, and since the elections were in 2012, it was known that this would lower the rating. Well, in order not to talk about it, then it was silent, so it was left to the next government. But it's not worth it today to talk about it and such cowards, because cowards are the ones who didn't show up at parliament to talk about it openly. Anything you have to say, allow me, come to the O.R., declare your position, state your opinion. Let's hear what finally their alternative to Kosovo and Metohija is, ours is clear. No solutions today, no compromises, no Serbia. Unlike some previous periods, Serbia can say something today and ask, not just to watch it be taken away by part of the territory. But to get to that, it took a lot of work, a lot of effort, a lot of energy and a lot of dedication, first of all. How many benefits we're going to get over the next period of time, it's up to our reality again, how much we can be realistic about ourselves. Citizens, when we talk about the Kosovo and Metohija issue, we expect first of all the truth, but expect from all of us a responsible and serious relationship. This reality means – can we finally look at the real situation in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and have realistic expectations accordingly? Let me, on one side of the West, insists that Serbia ceases diplomatic activities, am I right? Pristina says it irritates them and is one of the reasons why they do not want to continue dialogue. It's no problem, we knew that. It's common knowledge, but you know what the problem is? Albanians or sharps, call them whatever you want, no matter how politically they differ, everyone thinks the same thing, which is about Kosovo and Metohija's independence, they have the exact same attitude. Here in Serbia there is no consensus, while we are trying with colleagues who participated in the debate that day and every honour and fellow SRS that then invited citizens, if you remember, then there were elections, invited citizens to come out and vote for the "Serbian List". It's unity. We are always as strong as we are unique, and we should always seek to build this consensus on Kosovo and Metohija. That's important. On the other hand, you have that part of the opposition that didn't define himself to come to the O.R. and say what he was thinking, but he was saying it from the Assembly Hall. And what did the congregation hall say? What did they say about diplomatic activity? It's not, for God's sake, ethically, not in harmony, it's not moral, it's what money was taken for. Wait, we were listening from the congregation hall to the words of Pristina politicians. So, the words of Pristina politicians have been heard from the Assembly Hall, and today they have every right to respect the Kosovo and Metohija issue. I think you'd better keep your mouth shut. I think it's best if you shut up about Kosovo and Metohija, because then when they were supposed to talk, they didn't find it appropriate. So we are fully convinced, Serbian President, the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing everything to find a compromise, fair solution that will be acceptable to both sides. They're doing everything because of the generations that are coming, because we don't have the responsibility to transfer this question to the generations that are coming. As time passes, this question will become more difficult and we will have nothing to talk about in the end. Unlike all others, both the president and the government are openly telling the truth to the citizens of Serbia. The truth and then when they go to the U.S. and to any other state, only the truth. Not one story about Brussels, not one story about the United States, and the third story here in Serbia about how it happened in some period of time. A compromise is possible, an agreement is possible, which it insists on, as has been done so far by both the president and the government, and insist on dialogue, as long as, as so far, they have consistently and resolutely defended national and state interests. Everything else is embarrassing. Everything else is hypocritical. Everything else is immoral and everything else just talks enough by those who wanted to allegedly protest it, talks about their moral and political character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74166	The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74167	Thank you. It seems to me that we have forgotten the essence of why we are discussing today and what we are even discussing in this session of the National Assembly. I would say that today's whole poorly-cut amateur story by Alliance for Serbia leader Bosko Obradovic and Miladin Ševarlic is, in fact, an attempt to prevent what should happen tomorrow in our country by adopting this package of amendments and amendments to the law, which is certainly that tomorrow's election commissions must continue with the electoral actions that were interrupted the moment the state of emergency was introduced in our country. This is the purpose of today's play between Ševarlic and Bosko Obradovic. I don't really want to save anyone, it doesn't come to my mind, because they don't save us, neither do they save me, so I don't have to save them, nor do I have to. Who says I have to use the chosen words to address or describe the conduct of an MP? I really don't have to. The same way they address me, in this way, with the same respect, I will address them, when I describe what they are trying to do to Serbia and trying to do to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They want to make sense of everything, out of the inability to gain the trust of the citizens of this country. I'm very interested in what Mr. Chevarlic's voter looks like. I'm interested in how many people it is and where it circled his name. He was on the list, even in the now failed Parliament group of Dvori. He just -- Lassie came home today, and nothing else. And no one will convince me after 30 years of politics, that he accidentally got up today, accidentally asked us to discuss some twisted sentence from the president of the country two years ago, which again happened to be done by someone on these social networks, and then, so, the man grew up, from about 70 years ago, came out, sat down on the stairs and said -- I'm going to strike now, because it's not going to be debated about Kosovo and Metohija, and we all look at our backs and wear crazy shirts, looks like, and we don't know that we're thinking with our brains, and we don't know that after the order of incidents directed by Bosko Obradović, this now as something spontaneous. It's a little spontaneous tomorrow. Then Bosko Obradovic made up his mind that the fascist was a bit of a victim, so yesterday, they spinged that Marjan Risticevic had a knife in his hands. Shame on them. Shame on them all together for what they're doing to the state. They do nothing to me or Marjana Risticevic, or Peri, or Ziki, here in parliament, they do it to Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. From pure peace one car key turns into a knife. And Marinika Tepic accidentally turns to pain and fear again, and she doesn't know what the car key looks like, so she thinks it's a knife. It's all a directed show, a directed show that Serbia is presented in, I don't know, one part of society, and worse, abroad, in front of someone who wants to listen to that play, that there's a dictatorship here, that right here with the right drug addicts come to beat up Marianne, because Marian has some kind of peroresce, a knife, not keys. They just decided from home that morning to stop Mariana from driving her car. Is that what those of us who still have a little bit of reason to convince, just because it's been read openly, say again and again, who are these people with Bosca Obradic who came here to teach us democracy two days ago? It is clearly and loudly said that these are not angels who carry out democracy, but they are drug dealers with such files, such files with judicial convictions, etc. We've been talking about this all day and defending ourselves from the scum that wants this country to make a truly non-democratic state, to come here to power without a choice. That's the whole idea. Because if they believed they had great support, that they believed they were really going to stand up mass Serbia to fight democracy in this parliament, then they would go to the June 21st elections. And then that mass of people would calmly, quietly, with a pen, I say the pen is the strongest weapon, the strongest weapon. You don't have to confess to anyone, go back there and round up who you're for. I've never voted against, I've always voted through my life for someone's politics. But of course they don't believe it and they know it very well, Gilas is a powerful man, a rich man, who does research every day. He knows he can't come to power by election. And this spider is just an executive here, to fill out the front pages of the newspaper, so it doesn't say that we're passing democratic laws, so it doesn't say that after a meeting with the president of the state, where about 20 parties attended, lists that want to go to elections and respect democratic processes in this country, respect the Constitution and respect the law, that they have asked to allow the signatures to be certified, most sought by members of minority parties, and then another party, I heard that, whether the list "One of five million" and others. They asked, because they have no conditions to do so, they have no conditions to bring into their environments the verifyers, or notaries. I don't see what's controversial in order to improve the conditions for going out to elections, that, like once, municipal verifyers or court verifyers or already depends on which direction that liberalisation is going? Now, that's not to be talked about, not to inform Tanja Fajon and Bilchik, but to be written to them by Gilas, how many times the president has welcomed himself with elbow, finger, thumb with doctors from the People's Republic of China and will write about what Bosko Obradovic is daily directed as a spider and clown representing the Alliance for Serbia here. If he's not a spider and a clown, let him sue me. It looks like it to me. And those who support him and who came here two days ago to beat us, to beat us, Reverend Messenger, who can't say it, it's very difficult for you, because you belong to that way of thinking. Yeah. You can't just, it's so hard for you to say. You know what, the right person who asks to talk about it openly in our society, about fascism, must be me. It all started with me. Only then was that funny. Only then were the MEPs of Marinika Tepic and some others saying – if it happened at all, Bosko Obradovic's intrusion. At the time Chevarlic was with them at the MP's club, he didn't mind. He didn't mind that they walked into the president of the National Assembly, attacked me, harassed the secretaries, harassed the chief of my cabinet, was no stranger. Boška Obradovic, like any fascist, was in the way of having a tie, so he said, "Mannequin, what are you playing at, one nice man who asked him to come to his office, so if he had something to say, to make arrangements, to help him, he didn't understand at all, he was never in what was going on. He says, like the Nazis, fascists usually want to humiliate someone who doesn't speak in a dictionary like they say, model, what are you playing? The man was in shock. He says it's those who represent family values. I say, "Yes, it is you who have a proud name that they have regretted, who have tarnished it." Drug dealers on the steps of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, terrible. Bilmese some in black T-shirts, on purpose, they all have black T-shirts. It's like an accident? No, but they show Serbia what the state will look like when they take power, not with voices, when they take power by beating us. Today they beat Marijan Risticevic, they rip off his jacket, and then the ladies from the Alliance for Serbia, actors, painters, I don't know who came forward with what interest they offer to buy Marijana Rističević a new jacket. Eww! That's what I have to tell them. I'm a civil Serbia because I respect the state. That's how citizens behave. Because I respect my faith and others, because I respect my family, because I respect the rules, because I respect the laws. That's how those who say they're citizens, and those who are under-citizens behave like this. They laugh at violence outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, offer to buy us new jackets and to tear them apart again. Where does this political option go, if that's even an option? The option means choosing between those who do something in the state, who respect the laws, who preserve the dignity of this country, who struggle with every problem, make decisions, because dealing with politics means that every day you define yourself or you are in favour or against something. That's why there won't be any who can't give up. They're not for, they're not against, uh, he was insulting those kids and stuff. That's the past. That's what I guarantee you won't be in the next session, because there's no one to vote for you. Let me tell you something, this Bosko Obradovic in this room, except when he wanted to discipline us all, to harass us, to humiliate us, to kick a cop... The next day, who are favored, unfriendly, Bosko Obradovic's open newsletter from the Alliance for Serbia, is interviewed without any possibility of hearing and that policeman he was kicking says - I did not dump a policeman. It's over, it's the given truth, the whole of Serbia has to say it's true. That's not true. That cop walked into Anna Brnabic's office, picked up his socks, his legs were bloody. So there's no respect for the military, no respect for the police. He's now inviting some kind of army and police to join him. God forbid! God forbid the army and the police stand behind an open fascist. Thirty years of democracy here is at work. I don't know how it was during Tito, one party, one party, one party, you're gonna shut up and you're gonna be done, otherwise you're either going to jail or Goli Island. It's been gone since the '90s. No one beat up the MPs. That happened two days ago. They know that it was not a good echo among the citizens of Serbia, and even among those of them, that little, little maybe that... I don't even know how it's possible that someone in our country can support Bosko Obradovic. It's a shock to me, a sociological one, but good times, such and customs, what to do, there are. To forget what that man was doing -- beating up journalists, beating up journalists, breaking into RTS, and it's all being cynical, like every village jilk in front of a supermarket with a beer bottle, so I imagine him, laughing and everything is fine, and everything relativates, and when he does something, then they show us how Serbia approves it. If he approves, I invite him to go to election 21, here he is all the time in the world in all the media, because the media loves him, he's on TV every day. I, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is rarely invited, believe me, to make a statement when something is happening here. Bosko Obradovica yes, because it is a clown that fills the time, because serious people can't get their hands on television, it seems like they're talking seriously, only clowns and those who make incidents. I don't remember visiting for more than a minute or two on the street by a river, so I wait for them to include me for 25 minutes, I freeze in Novi Sad in the square, and all I'm happy to say is we'll have a session and then they say, "We're past time." This is how the relationship to the serious man Bosko Obradovic is being torn down and who Sergei says – enough is the way Maja Gojkovic and so on, and about them every day we hear about them and they become stars of the grand, as far as politics is concerned. Their nonsense and nonsense is written every day, and we're trapped here, and we comment on them every day. Every day, we comment on what the Marines did, wrote, said they were going to beat us, and if we don't postpone the election for December, they're going to kill us all over the house. The election can't be postponed. One who calls on the Constitution and the law cannot delay the election. Bosko Obradovic should personally introduce a state of emergency in this country, according to the Constitution, but let him explain it to the movement of sherpa and pots, because first they organised themselves to hit the sherpas and pots to end the state of emergency, and now that the state of emergency has been lifted, the political idea of Boško Obradovic and Dragan Djilas is to extend the state of emergency to even hi, hey months to somehow get hold of some imaginary date for the elections. Who knows why? I don't understand what that December is going to bring and what's different than June or April when we were supposed to have elections. It says in the Constitution – only when the state of emergency can be postponed. The state of emergency has passed and we are now going to the elections and the citizens of Serbia will go to those elections and will have a chance to round up the political option that suits them most, from those political parties that go out on that day. They can't round up someone who won't participate in the election. It never was. Even this sweet idea of Boris Tadic coming out so they don't come or I don't know. It's better than not to go to the election at all and then write somewhere there that they didn't go to the election and they didn't even come out because I don't know what conditions. I don't get it. It is only clear to me that Bosko Obradovic receives 100,000 dinars every month for two years or a year and a half. It's important that the citizens of Serbia hear. As President of Parliament, I never wanted to talk to this dictionary, but I want to talk to that dictionary because they don't know anything else. For not coming here 100,000 dinars, every day, every month. Every session they sign up to be here taking travel expenses, not to lie, and our citizens here are fighting for a minimumer or for a job. He radio doesn't take that kind of money. What else should fascist Bosko Obradovic do, the one who wants to become a victim in these two days? He lives in Dedinj, many of them live there in Belgrade, but he came from Cacack like that and immediately found an apartment in Dedinj and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in translation of the citizens of this country pay him an apartment there every month, to sleep to live in Belgrade, and that's not what we decided, the Administrative Board said a thousand years ago that it cost him 30,000 dinars and that's it. So, Bosko Obradovic, the one who boycotts himself, does not boycott the money of Serbian citizens, has a greasy salary for labour, 100,000 dinars and citizens of Serbia, respected Serbian citizens, you pay him a rented apartment on Santa all this time while he claims he is not coming, and otherwise as you heard when he tried to block a police station in Vracar municipality, he made fun of those people who are doing his job and then declared his private car as the official car of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We may have one car, I think. Is that right, Branko? One car, and that car that took the picture is not an official car. So wherever he shows up, he's lying, but maybe he thought it was official because he charged the charges and took the gas money to drive around Belgrade. To me, all this violence and harassment, which he does, is physically assaulting MPs, a big sign of why the prosecution is in charge and when he reads an inscription in the paper to respond, why does the prosecution keep silent? What difference does it make that he has their parliamentary immunity? The prosecution has to react. Whether he calls for immunity or not, we can only determine that if the prosecution responds. Since he's waiting to be a victim, he can't possibly become a victim, so he's waving how he's politically persecuted, although the attack on MPs in the National Assembly is not necessarily political action, but a criminal act, because they attacked him in the group, it's qualified as an attack in the group, it's not a crime, it's a crime on me, but well I'm neither a prosecutor nor a judge, I'm like that -- the leader of a private front and something, as I'm already qualified by those who know better this job, looks like someone who's been doing this for years. I don't mind, but it's up to us then. I say Bosca Obradovic, he'll never be a victim as long as we're the majority here, but the prosecution has to react, and then we'll decide here in parliament, no matter how you know what it looks like. It wouldn't be our first time discussing someone's immunity. He can't be called to immunity, and we can re-establish him and not allow him to be the victim. But let's talk all day about him here, his behavior as a representative of the Serbian citizens, his money he takes from Serbian citizens, two years per hundred thousand dinars and 30,000 dollars for an apartment in Dedinj and travel expenses from Dedinj to here or he charges from Cacko to here. I don't know what he does every month. To dedicate one session, all day long only to the fall of masks, not to be ignored on the stairs and proved to be a victim, he poor, miserable shared the fate of an ordinary citizen. Regular citizens would like to live and be as rich as Bosko Obradovic, not to say that I still doubt there are other sources of income to behave like this. So I ask you today to declare these changes and additions because the other day we passed a law that requires electoral action to continue tomorrow, that Boška Obradovica is released from the Alliance for Serbia and the entire fine democratic society that says to themselves that they are intellectuals, and an intellectual, as well as one woman will never say to herself that she is an intellectual, as no woman will ever say to herself that she is a lady. That's what someone else should be estimating. Let them see what they will do with Bosca Obradić. I would like him to continue to represent them because then there really won't be a choice in the elections because there won't be people, that little bit in our society that went to another side, so he thinks that this is an alternative, obviously if Bosko Obradovic leads them and continues to act violently, no one should think more about what the results will look like in the June 21st elections, because Serbian citizens never make mistakes and know that they value work, effort and someone who loves Serbia. They will not give a voice to those who hate Serbia and who are causing chaos in this country. We won't let that happen. I call on our honourable MPs Martinovic and Sandra Christmas to endure in their efforts, but I do not influence the judicial authorities at all. I just ask them to read the paper from two days ago and yesterday, to see what was going on in front of and in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to tell us their assessment – whether they believe that a crime has been committed or if they think that nothing really happened in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74168	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74169	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appreciate it when MPs fight for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if they do so honestly. So I can't be convinced by beatings. Maybe I can make a good argument, but no matter how strong they are, they can't. I especially don't allow it when I see fascist groups doing it. Now let's watch "Express" Pristina since July 22, 2010. After the International Court of Justice's opinion, requested by Vuk Jeremic, according to an agreement they previously had with the US Embassy. When a Pristina magazine showing the Albanian language, when they write the title in Serbian -- thank you, Wolf, then you know how much they appreciate that Vuk Jeremic, along with others, has worked to build Kosovo's independence. Be careful, delay recognition of Kosovo's independence for the period after the second round of Serbian presidential elections, so as not to harm President Tadic, as recorded in the December 17th 2007 dispatch, under the heading - delay recognition to help the good boys. Look out, good boys, strange Americans. Don't ask Tadic to accept the loss of Kosovo. The late Prime Minister Djindjic was killed for less than that, Stefanovic cried at the meeting. It's done. Boris Tadic seems to have taken an oath on February 14th or so, in February, fled to Romania, or on February 14th, Albanians declared independence, and Boris Tadic, respectively, was elected, and Albanians declared independence for several days, seems to me on February 17th. This is proof that they participated in the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. You, too, ladies and gentlemen, were able to hear more times than Mr. Chevarlic, that he and Twors and Bosca Obradovic had nothing left. Nevertheless, there is an old saying, he says – an individual or a society is known by the leader. If you are led on the election list by Bosko Obradovic, then you are a little bit recognized in such a way, especially after denying as - I am no longer with him, but I am with him. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't believe in pacifism, humanism, here from a colleague who's saying something, so, like, you're now Gilasa, the defense of Gilas and so on. You all remember the message of the Dvora that we should be hanged on the terraces, to the letter - we should be hanged on the terraces. Is that true, that we do not take down the answers to these “tweets ” and so on. Our colleague here who wants to represent himself as a humanist said, "Don't hang them on the terraces, that's where they hang the patriots." So you can go where you can't see it, but don't, there's a rodeo hanging on the terraces. You also remember the incident in the National Assembly that caused that Ljotician, where after that incident our fellow humanist threw him like this, congratulating him, and threw him five, like, every honor of the master. Now I ask you what kind of humanism and concern is that? One more thing to tell you, there are material and financial reasons, or our colleagues, I believe first that they strike hunger because of the prosecutor's impotence. The prosecution has to prevent violence from being punished before, so it doesn't happen again. If you don't punish something, it's meant to happen again. The law is for every law. Evil fights while it's little, there's a saying. The prosecution did not do so, and the last moment is for them to create regular conditions under which the election campaign will take place, that is, under which these elections will take place. Now, let me show you how the prosecution does it. Article 344. The criminal code that was violated by this Ljotic man several times. He says – who, by rude insult and abuse of the other, commits violence against the other, by causing a fight or insolent and reckless behaviour, poses a greater threat to the tranquillity of the citizens, endangers the calmness of the citizens, or tends to disturb public order and peace, will be punished by imprisonment for up to three years. Says Section 2. - if the work of Article 1 has been carried out in a group, undermining, performed in a group, or when a person has suffered a minor physical injury or there has been a serious humiliation of the citizens, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of six months to five years, a minor physical injury, if there is any further need for any evidence. So that's what the prosecution missed, to do their job, to sanction violence, because violence and weapons are weak, and non-violence is a weapon of strength. And that non-violence cannot be created only by us, but by the prosecution, by protecting, innocent by punishing the guilty, it should create conditions that this is happening in an atmosphere that will not be violent in the streets. What happens in parliament, who told whom and how, it stays between us. I admit that I'm very sharp in my discussions, but let a colleague say that I've done anything out there against him. Here, in front of these benches, they tried to physically attack me. My mother was in poor health. She died in three days, but never one colleague, no matter what they did, I didn't charge her with it, and I don't think I'm thinking of accusing him. It still ended without physical harassment, it ended here, but let's take an eye out for an eye, I call on everyone not to respond to the violence of the Latvians and others. It's not just Bosko violent, remember Bastac, bags on his head, remember the overcrowding of the street, remember when they were waiting for Seselj, not to let him enter the National Assembly. Let's remember the sign-stealing, let's remember the break-in of the presidency. Remember the attempt to break the doors of the National Assembly. Let's remember all the violence that happened, and that's the prosecutor's problem. The D.A. wants us to respect them, because it's on its own. Justice is independent. We want to respect you, but start respecting yourself and doing your job out of self-esteem. The beatings were, the beatings would pass, but I have no intention of kneeling in front of them. Micunovic is not here, I may have offended him once, which I am sorry, but he said one thing, quoting someone – I can only get out of here on bayonets. As long as the citizens vote and I pass on the list, I don't go out here, no matter how many angry people or what they have in their hands. I guess I did, 'cause the key made them do what they made. Today in the country there are also vests and multiple rocket launchers, but Bosko Obradovic introduces a stone, he is a stone age politician, he is a politician of cave Serbia. He needs to give it up. He's not that lame, he can be said, but he has to give up that kind of policy if he thinks he's successful in that policy. I tried to help him by proving that he wasn't an anti-communist, which he pretends to be not a great believer. Imagine the believer who came home in the evening and said: "E, we great Serbian believers, followers of Mark Miljanov's humanity, heroism, today we beat up some colleagues in the stairwell, we beat up one of them where we don't like who's 62 years old. Are they believers, are they humanists? Of course not. Neither are those who support them. Is Dragan Gilas closely connected to him? There was a comparison here with torches, of course there was. It wasn't with Bostic Vukic that he took the sign, it was Dragan Gilas. He didn't fall into RTS closely tied up. He didn't break in, there's a photograph, Dragan Gilas, in violence, didn't fall into RTS with Vukic, etc. In these violent attempts, Bosko Obradovic, narrowly, was tightly imbued with Dragan Dilas. If I were Dragan Gilas, I'd be worried because responsibility isn't on the individual who bites and on the pack. The responsibility is also on the boss of the pack. It's a bit of an ugly comparison, but that's how it is in Srem. When these attacks are said by the pack, it's not only the pack, it's the boss of the pack. There is this mutual link between them, the goal is to postpone the elections so that Serbia will not be a democratic country, as far as possible. Maja Divac appeared, she says – there is no country in which the elections are held. Here, I'll list, France on March 15th, ask the minister, is it true that local elections throughout France were made on March 15th in the rise of an outbreak of infectious disease? With four thousand patients that day, I think 91 are dead? Is it true that in South, not North, Korea, elections were held with 11,000 infected? There are things that have to be done for the state, for the management of the state. They don't choose us... Says Janko Veselinović, give me back my country. Well, it's not the state thing, so let's give it back to you. We get the right to run public affairs, right, Minister, and we don't get the state. They're experiencing it -- we win the election, the state is ours, we can do whatever we want, we can take 619,000,000 euros. There is a financial motive that made Sasa Radulovic want the elections held as soon as possible. These are these unregistered political parties, etc. Sixty-sixty-sixy-seven euros a month is given to the party, in a strange way the money is transferred. Now, by clicking, I don't know what, Feng Shui, some therapy, etc. And so the money that is intended for the electoral lists is emptied, not for the individuals who ran that election list. I ask you where, in which state can he earn 60,000 euros a month and put it in his pocket? She's gone. This is the scheme by which Bosko Obradovic pumped in less than a year the 250,000 euros the state gave him for the party, not for him personally. Be careful, Cvianović Ivan, Verica, Željka entrepreneurship, from Borca, Simidzija from Borca, etc. Twenty million. So, what were they doing in his election campaign for 20 million? The next day, the money was raised in cash. It's fictitious business, it's money laundering, it's tax evasion, it's serious crimes. When I got this file, it was an obligation to forward it to the D.A. for organized crime. Why does Bosko Obradovic want to postpone the election? He did not come to finance alone, but in a coalition with the Democratic Party of Serbia that pushed him, and certainly little did Scott. And now he gets 25,000 euros, plus 1,000 euros in salary, plus an apartment on Dedinj. Don't get lost so easily. By beatings, by violence, they will try to extend as long an election as possible, that the longer they get 25,000 euros a month, 300 thousand a year, to transfer it into their pockets. In doing so, when the police were investigating, it was the prosecution that had to do the job, the prosecution didn't do it. Today our colleagues strike for this prosecution and it's time for the prosecution to do so. We cannot pay 25,000 euros for 18 months of violence-doing violence in Serbia to extend the elections and prove that it is allegedly a dictatorship in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74170	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74171	Thank you. The calendar of the election will be translated into a manual that RIK will most likely, on the basis of its powers, share with all of us, the choices foreseen for June 21st and this will be a very unusual instruction. To write this manual and to adhere to the provisions of the RIK resolution, we are all required to participate in the election, but all others who are not directly involved, but are by vote, are their own interest to hear one of us who is going to the elections. Practically, it means it's now an election campaign. It is the easiest, and it is a kind of temptation, to accuse the ruling coalition of a major violation of the constitution and of amending election laws during the election campaign. As easy as that is, and true, talking to lawyers can be, it's unproductive. As much as I think election rules are the most sensitive, the most prominent and most important part of the legislation that people in a society are talking about, because it describes the fundamental freedoms written in the law say that we will choose those who will lead us. That's why free elections are so important, as are the free media. These are the two pillars of the rule of law that all of us who care very carefully about the rule of law and democracy. So instead of resisting or resisting and criticising the power to proceed after the state of emergency has been lifted, I have submitted an amendment that should contribute equality to the participants in the election process in the coming days. What's this about? June 6th of this year is the last day when all election lists will be closed. At the time of the emergency decision, there are 25 days left for all those who wish to participate in the electoral process to collect signatures and to submit their electoral lists to the RIK within the appropriate time limit, until 10 April. Now the calendar is being moved, how will it be written in the instructions RIK will give tomorrow, so June 6th is some date when the election lists will be closed. What are the jobs to be done in the next 25 days? The collection of signatures for those who have not collected the signatures and have not submitted the lists, regardless of whether the job has begun, whether it has been interrupted by a decision on the state of emergency or only now will it decide. As I can resist using classic criticism – we change election laws during the election campaign, because it is unproductive and none of it has any use, so I can say – I don't care, because the list of the United Democratic Serbia was handed over and declared a valid list for the elections then on April 26th. So, from that point of view, what do I care? We did that part of the job. If you do public work, it can't be – what do you care? If you want to talk seriously about election laws and media freedoms during the election campaign, we cannot talk about that there are laws that are good for the opposition or bad for the opposition and good for the government. We don't understand the concept of laws being passed. Laws either work or don't work. In democratic societies, no one gives the laws to anyone. In democratic societies, people, through institutional dialogue, decide what is best for a society where elections will be held, in which there will be free media, in which there will be freedoms and rights for which someone will guarantee. It's a huge misunderstanding that, I hear very often, as you don't understand the concept of dialogue, maybe I misread, where people apologize to each other for participating in the dialogue. We don't understand the concept of democracy, we don't understand what dialogue is. The dialogue is a process that you go into voluntarily with people who can't stand you and who you can't stand, and you'd rather be on another planet, not in a room where the dialogue takes place. I have here, I think, quite correctly heard that people apologize why they are in dialogue with European MPs, why they are in dialogue with the opposition. I've heard here that someone should deserve to be in dialogue. It won't do any good after these elections, however any of us deserve trust, as many voters as we can if we don't start thinking about how wrong it is. My amendment is precisely because when we already have a special situation after the pandemic, when we have a broken electoral process, then the imminent decision of the RIK continued, to go to the end in the position – it is unusual to have complete circumstances and to require totally unusual measures, and to leave people not to choose between a public notary and one institution where public notebooks have, but to choose in all cities and municipalities where they will submit signatures on the cover, whether there is or not public notebooks. It's for this situation, I think, a better solution. Will we change these electoral laws when the elections of June 21st pass and with what explanation? Are we gonna go back to that so only the notebooks can? These election laws will have to be discussed after the election, so if you're going to have some kind of dialogue, which I hope no one will be ashamed of and apologize for agreeing to talk to someone from the opposition. Digression - that women in this congregation never apologized for being in dialogue with each other. As much as you think women can't stand each other, you're making a big mistake. But we were aware that the objective of institutional dialogue was to change some things in society for the better. We all need to learn about this process. So, if we're going to change, and we will, then let the ministers go there and where there are notebooks to verify both in the municipality and wherever they want. I know why you chose this solution, but the amendment I propose is a political message. As I would like to hear in this room political messages about how we really believe in dialogue and really want free media and fair and democratic elections and not to apologize because we are talking to someone in the opposition about dialogue. There's a situation in society that researchers have a name, not to mention, when people have an irresistible need to talk about people who aren't present. It's the same condition as when people talk about themselves in a third person. You can't do that. We're obviously enjoying it here in the O.R. and the ones out there. It won't do anyone any good. These elections will end under such rules or such, we will see guidance. What will not be solved on the 22nd morning is the fact that you have a fairly large number of people who have genuine and firm support for the ruling party or the ruling coalition. At the same time, they have an incredible impatience for anyone from the opposition to hate. And you're not at risk, it's simply due to the way those who run the ruling majority communicate with their voters. It's all legal and legitimate. On the other hand, you have people who say - I have no one to vote for. But the energy that breeds impatience to the ruling one is identical. It's our responsibility to at least try to make an alternative that's politically articulated how impatient they are. You've got nothing to do with it. If we fail, we'll be responsible only for ourselves, but the problem will remain. I've been trying to tell you about the fact that you don't have a clear political articulation on the part of the opposition electoral body, that is, our mistake and our responsibility, but the damage is common. Although you're telling me I don't have a brain while I'm talking or anyone who doesn't have a brain while I'm talking, then you're finding trenches where there's no democracy for Serbia. You need to refrain from telling people they don't have a brain. If you want to talk to me about any of the leaders of the Change Alliance, I'm at your disposal in the lobby, with coffee, with all the mask and gloves, because it's not done in the Assembly room. It's done in the halls and in the cafeterias. But I can't teach anyone what's done here, what's done in the pubs. We brought the bar in here. And it'll be a common shame. Whatever the 21st of June election is, it's over. Why do I think the minister should still consider that this one-time change in the electoral law should be so that they can choose where they want to verify their signatures. Why did I give up on saying that all of us here are indisputable, exactly, what are they doing, changing the election law because of the election campaign? Because we changed election rules a year ago? Because the opposition rightly had protests, objections, demands and everything they said on the street and what they said in the institutions, because since December of last year we have already changed electoral laws. Three plus two electoral laws and a functioning campaign and the Anti-Corruption Act and the way REM is elected in the end because in February we were on my proposal, because it was good, but with responsibility both the presidents of the Assembly and the president of Serbia changed the electoral laws by introducing 40% quotas for the less-represented sex. It was February. So, two months before the election, we changed one part of the electoral legislation. It can be an explanation why I resist temptations to easily criticize how in the election campaign we change the way we collect signatures. If I were someone who were to give up trust in Serbia's power, I would make this speech completely different to you, but I deeply and sincerely believe in Serbia's power to win freedoms and rights, to win the degree of democracy, to lack the rule of law, to lack the shortcomings in institutions, to build all this. To build this, there must be dialogue. The dialogue isn't, don't talk to him, stab him, like the screaming stadium when the judge tries to bring a player in order. You can't talk I want a dialogue, but actually share, don't talk to him, stab him. We have a very difficult time ahead. I am an optimistic person by nature, and that is why I have submitted an amendment hoping that the minister will accept it. That's nice when you accept the amendment. So, hard times because the pandemic that's with us is here to stay until the vaccine is found. The economy we are part of is primarily the EU, but it is also planetary in recession and downfall, and it will not stop in a week, even if Serbia works well, even if we do not have a liquidity problem, even if we manage to maintain the level of investment, we have to trade with someone. That someone and the EU where you will have an estimated recession. There's new times ahead of us. We have a new normality ahead of us, and we have a choice ahead of us. We can say, we're doing well, this, we have nothing to talk about with the opposition, stab them, see what they're like, you don't even have to insult them by yourself, you just have to show it a little, or we can say, let's start a dialogue, because we owe people in Serbia an answer to what they're going to live on if we survive the contagion and preserve most of the population in Serbia. It will also be a question for the election campaign, and in particular it will be a post-election issue. Therefore, I ask the Minister to consider and that the amendment to which I have proposed that we do not separate cities and municipalities with public notebooks accept or let the Committee put you on, because it is not my name, and another amendment relating to the Law on Local Elections also from the same topic. With the hope that I will have time to explain and the second amendment I want to share with you a kind of pleasure that I have worked well with many of you and that, if you will honestly look, we have done some things well, but unfortunately we have missed a lot of things to do as an institution, as a message and as a hope that the next assembly meeting after the elections will see a list of what we have missed and will make up for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74172	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74173	Thank you, Chairman. I thank, of course, Members of the Comic for this good argument regarding many things that concern above all dialogues that should not be ashamed of, it is not at all controversial. I don't think anyone here is ashamed of dialogue. As for the content of the amendments, and according to this law, and according to the Law on Local Elections, exactly on the trail of what you said, in principle, by accessing this subject and in view of, as you said, that your political option had already collected signatures and you would have no reason to do so, but you want to approach it in principle, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, precisely in view of public health and the effects of the pandemic and, of course, that political agreement on which the representatives of your political option were present, decided to extend the circle of authorised certification officers of the signature of all political groups and lists that want to participate in the elections. This is what we have done with this proposal, so, as far as local elections are concerned, we have returned competences to municipal and city administrations, and as regards the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, we have included practically city and municipal administrations, alongside public notaries, with that exception which stood in an earlier legal solution, which is that where there are no public notaries, in those units of local self-government, in this case now and in addition to city and municipal administrations, the overnu can be done by the basic courts, judicial units or the office of the basic court. We may not have come to the highest level to meet what you were hoping for or what you see as a facilitating circumstance for electoral conditions, but in any case, I think it's much easier at this point to prevent the risk of a still existing virus, for which we have proven as a state and a health system that we can fight it, to tackle it, but now it's an obligation to learn to live with it in all spheres of society. So this is also one way to prevent these risks and also to make as wide a framework as possible for those who are interested in going to elections to give them the opportunity to verify and sign support for their lists as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74174	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like you to record my time as an authorised representative. A few notes only regarding what is said on the topic of dialogue in the National Assembly, since we are resented that this dialogue is not sufficiently advocated, that we do not practice it, it is even said that there is hatred and total impatience for all who are in opposition on our part. That's how it's been announced. I'd just like to say, because it's important, that the truth is significantly different. The truth is that the dialogue that some of us resent is being led by it, the dialogue is being initiated right on our side. We have been talking in the National Assembly, under the auspices of Mrs Gojkovic as president of the National Assembly, with all others who wanted to participate in this discussion on electoral conditions in Serbia, possible improvements and amendments to the laws that mean it, therefore, were right because it was our will. The unquestionable fact is that if we didn't want to, these talks would not have been held at all in the National Assembly, with an open invitation for everyone to participate in this dialogue, if they wanted to, even though they were represented in the National Assembly, even if they weren't, and they represent some political factor. If they want to. That was the only question - whether or not you wanted to. The doors of the National Assembly were completely open to them. And we took part in this dialogue on our part, as well as in the dialogues before that. Say, was there a chance in this country to talk about other issues, such as, say, the Kosovo and Metohija issue, some have re-enacted it here today, at a level such as an internal dialogue which, you remember well, launched in this country just now by Alexander Vukic? I guess it's a good indicator of our desire and our willingness to talk to everyone and to hear everyone's voice, everyone's attitude, everyone's opinion, that there's room for it. I honestly don't remember such a thing being organized in this country at some point that there are no touching points with Alexander Vukic and the SNS. So I think it's wrong to blame us for wanting to talk, to talk to everyone. And that in this intention we are completely honest, this is what the president of the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Martinovic said today. We've never apologized, nor tried to justify ourselves, because of our dialogue, in any place. On the contrary. What I'm telling you right now, literally, we're saying as our message all the time, that's what Aleksandar Martinovic was saying today. It is this significant, fundamental change in political life in Serbia, the change in the paradigm he spoke of, the willingness to set ourselves up in this way. You won't find an example of others setting themselves up like that, and they were on occasion. Then when they were, they didn't even think about it. And there's no excuse. That is the fact that we are proud, as well as the fact that we have shown willingness to act, the result has shown our willingness to lead the dialogue in this assembly. Also, in this room, let us also respect the suggestions that come from the other side of the hall to put some topics on the agenda, to discuss them, to ensure that time is further ensured to discuss these topics, that the proposals that come from the other side of the hall, and that you, Mrs. Komic, were among them, if we agree that there is a quality in them that is essential and contributes to something good, are adopted by all of us in this room together. These are all good evidence that we are honest when we say that dialogue is worth it to us. And democracy, yes. Because of this democracy, Alexander Martinovic and Sandra Christmas are now in protest. Because of our attitude towards democracy, because our positive relationship with the issue of dialogue, regarding relations with institutions, the cultivation of democracy in this country, was answered, you know very well in what ways -- methods that we cannot, which no decent man in this country can call different to fascist, by making an ambush here for the MPs of the SNS, just two days ago. You can never establish a sign of equality. That, whatever anyone thinks of the Serbian Radical Foreigner, any of the parties sitting across the street, can't say about any of us being the same, that it's the same, because none of us have done that, the impatience towards everyone in the opposition, we've never done anything like that to anyone from the opposition, that we've never done anything like that, that the MP is forbidden to come to the National Assembly, that he's doing his job, that he's getting into a person's face and being insulted, that he's being disdained, that he's being provoked, that it's not enough, that we're physically attacking and that we're coming to the most scary things, that he's being hit, that many people didn't want to see on the floor, that floor, he's tearing his clothes and some of them are breaking up all, possibly controversial issues, but even if his blood is released, which many didn't want to see. Then they're trying to justify it all. It's for us to be completely clear and open to the end, pure fascism, and for those who try to justify it, it's obviously something that's close to them, which is kind to their hearts, that's what those of the Dvora, who must have sent Dragan Gilas to do. You know what proof it was like? Because practically a few hours later they tried to justify these people in the most hopeless way by lying that Marian Risticevic deserved it because he allegedly threatened them with some kind of knife. Everyone knows it's a lie. Everyone knows there's no knife in there. Anyone who looks at the video, if it hasn't already been on that staircase, then the footage has as much, sees that the most common are faceless lies, inhuman lies, the story of some kind of knife. The man in one hand holds the phone and the bag, holding the car keys in the other hand and showing them here, and it can't even look like a knife to anyone. No, it's something else. That's where you lie, knowingly lying to justify those fascist methods here. And then they say, "Now we will make sacrifices, and then we will weep in front of the entrance of the people's congregation, and then it will all be forgiven for us and for all to be made mad." And those who supported it, and those who had done it with shame, and those who were truly the victim, were lying about it, lying about it; now they will all say there was nothing; now we will feel little pity for those fascists who tried to kill man, literally. These media who wrote and lied, upset that hatred and that lie that Marijan Risticevic, allegedly, is guilty of what happened to him, will also be made ignorant and will not paste their minds that the apology of the instructions they owe to that man. You see, it's all a dissipation of fascism and it's something that's all the opposite of democracy and it's something that we're like strangers to us, if you want to talk about it, as a parliamentary group absolutely unacceptable. Today Alexander Martinovic and Sandra Christmas send that message. We want to protect democracy from the growing fascism and the obvious campaign. It's not an incident, it's none of it, it's a campaign for these things to be scattered, supported in the political world, but also in the media world, and to say that they're obliged to respond to those who do it. The prosecution must not answer, the prosecution must not act on these issues, and that is our request - to establish the clear responsibility of Boška Obradovic and those people around him for that fascist beer a few days ago and that no one is acting crazy about it. These media who supported, along with what Đilasima, Marinika and others, what Bosko Obradovic and Dvori did, these media owe a great apology to Marijan Rističević, yes, but also to everyone in Serbia, because such a support is, simply, unfair. It's inhuman. This is our position on relations with dialogue and relations with the importance of democracy in this country. We can be as different as you want, but these are the differences that are essential. Whatever you think of each other, that way we can't threaten each other. It's our clear and principled attitude, and that's all you can expect as a message from us, and people see it all well, and on the basis of all of that, they'll judge the moment they're asked, in the elections, of course, because it's the only thing democracy knows as a way of measuring opinions -- what we're going to do next, how we're going to go on, in which we believe we have enough trust to trust him about the common good, and that's our beautiful country, old in our name. Only in the election, because it's democracy, because it's something that's a good indicator of values like dialogue and tolerance and willingness to understand others. It's the only acceptable way for us. For these fascists who wish to deny the right to life to others only if they do not belong politically to them, we all know what the answer is – that is not the way. They took their ways completely naked and showed off. Their way is through other people's lives, obviously. That's not democracy, and that's what we're up against here today, and that's something that I believe is a fundamental relationship that can come from those people who truly care about democracy in this country just to come across support and consent. I believe that we understand each other very well about this, just as the citizens of Serbia, who are very much aware of all this. And just because they understand well, no one should underestimate people in this country. That is why they support the policy that makes democracy in this country safe, that in time it seems only stronger, just as the economy is growing stronger, just as our country's position in the world is growing stronger. In one word, that is the policy established by Aleksandar Vucic, and since it was a question of what the attitude of the people of the SNS and our MPs was, that is exactly the policy that we all follow. We follow, I'd say, consistently, we follow sometimes and heartily, but be sure, never at the cost of jeopardizing others. No, we keep everything and protect it, but it's certainly a policy we follow with great pride. If the citizens see it, we're just glad the citizens see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74176	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74177	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I have submitted an amendment specifically to this Law on the selection of MPs in the part of the signing, where the notaries, that is, have not done their job properly in the previous period. There's been a lot of trouble. On the one hand, the party I run and which I belong to, which is the United Peasants' Party, we have collected and handed over the signatures in my hometown in Svrlig. Here we are in a coalition with the SNS "Alexander Vukic – for our children", but we have a dozen other municipalities, where we have submitted the signatures. Let's just say, in the city of Nis, we got into the business of collecting signatures, but there were major problems and we couldn't complete the procedure. They collected close to a thousand signatures for the city hall, but it took several hundred more. We'll finish it in the next period. This is a good move, a good thing, if we could end it with municipal or city verifyers, but now that we're talking about other things here, I'd like to point out now, my men from Srlig, from Pirot, from Nis, who have a problem with the lambs. It may not be a place, but it should be heard. That's a big problem. Perhaps I too should now, as a folk MP representing the United Peasant Party, go out there and strike hunger, precisely because a large number of my people who deal with sheep, cattle, cannot sell their lambs, their calves, and they live on it. We had a situation now, it was a state of emergency. Now it's a state of emergency stopped. Now our people can't sell those lambs and that calf. We need all of us together to find the possibility that the state of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture, together with our minister, will ensure conditions for these lambs to be bought, to provide a placement for those lambs and, on the other hand, not to be the price, since the price of 210 dinars has been offered. Believe me, people, it's a small price and my people who do cattle and sheep farming are willing to even give these lambs free of charge, not your way of humiliating them. It is necessary to provide a placement, to secure the market, to ensure that people who deal with shepherding, to deal with cattle, other agricultural activities, to provide them with the market and to have the state behind them. That is why I am on the list now with our President, Alexander Vukic, because I want to present problems here in the Assembly for all of us living in southeastern Serbia and we have a need to hear a voice. I am the spokesman for everything that is a problem with us in southeastern Serbia. In small municipalities, as far as agriculture is concerned... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74178	Thanks, buddy. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Canak, Nenad Konstantinović, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74179	Thank you. The passing of these laws on today, when an emergency was lifted two or three days ago, was absolutely unconstitutional and illegal and a series of wrong moves were actually made here. We can't really talk here at all about whether this is good or not, is it good that the signatures are certified by notaries or officials in local self-government, but we can talk about whether it's possible or not, and it's not possible. As far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, we have long stated our position when it comes to notaries. We advocate that in the notary business, in their jurisdiction there remains only the conclusion or soloisation of the immovableity transport contract, and that all verifications of signatures and transcripts return as once, one part of local self-government, in accordance with the law, and in the other part to the judicial administration, also in accordance with the law. We don't have a problem with who's supposed to verify these signatures, but we have a problem with you breaking these two laws. He's supposed to be some kind of roof law. Why didn't you suggest we change that law first? Here with these two laws you also violated the Law that regulates the work of public notebooks, which is also, in a certain way, a roof law when it comes to signing over. We've been listening all day to you in power here, wanting to make an opposition, so you're doing these concessions. You've changed the laws of two months before the election, some and these now, to make an opposition. You may have a good will, but the Constitution doesn't allow it. You are not here to make an opposition, or, to your opposition, to those with whom you have agreed to pass this law. That's what these are, like, "One out of five million," and the rest don't apply. So it'll be easier for you to collect signatures from the local offices, be a little further from the public than to do at the notaries. What's the difference, you say, that, well, you do all this in the interest of the health of the people. Of course, the health of the people is a priority, especially in this situation where there is still a pandemic, when we still have certain measures, but in no way do you justify what you're doing. Do you think there's a more sterile office in some village than the notary office? Notary always makes it look like a pandemic. You never have two men in your office at a notary. It's just, it's such a job that it's impossible. There's a buyer and a realtor, and the next break has to wait, it's got an appointment or it's waiting outside, it's sitting. So, already in advance, the precise way of working, yet to be said, everyone has to come with a mask and gloves, the notary has to sit with a mask and gloves and finish the job. But no. You're doing this for some completely different reasons. I have to ask you, Minister, since you are going to adopt these laws, I have to ask you - which way, by which law, by which regulations, you can no longer do it because it is not an emergency, how or how will you do it, you have to by some solution to order people in local self-government to deal with it now in a period of time, because there are no more such jobs systematised in local self-governments, means one serious legal problem, how will you, by what act, return the books of oversigned signatures? Those books are long gone. Since the creation of notaries those existing are permanently archived, others are gone. How are you going to use an act to search for new stamps for the overa? It's gone. It's thrown away, it's spent those stamps that were pounding where the data was being typed, etc. So you're going with your throat into strawberries. You didn't do anything serious. You promised, another president of the Republic says after that meeting with party representatives, where Serbian radicals were, he says -- we agreed to amend this law. They did not agree, but "One out of five million" suggested, and he accepted. You're trying to convince us that your relationship with the government and the opposition is that you want to equalize in all possible rights power and opposition. Well, that's not true. Here's an example at the main entrance to this building. Those who strike hunger that belong to the authorities sit comfortable on the chairs, those who are from the opposition strike hunger, sit on the stairs. Now we're wondering, tonight when it's dark, how will Martinović and Boskovic exchange sandwiches most undetected? It's not fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74180	The word has Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74181	It's simple, what's said not to have some ambiguity, of course I will not adopt these amendments and the additions of the law, but you will vote on it as MPs, that's one. As for the options in which the amendments and additions will be adopted, it becomes a legal obligation and the mayors of the city and municipal administrations will certainly make a schedule of duties to work on the signature. If there are such cases that there are no stamps and that they are spent somewhere, we are also the address for making new stamps as the ministry responsible for, among other things, the local self-government system. So, in that sense, there won't be any epochal problems, but the questions, I would say, are in principle in place, and that's why I wanted to answer them. What is also clear to all of us, it is that no constitution as the highest legal act of any state foresees any pandemic, nor the pandemic of the coronary virus, and you will agree that this happened so that in these new circumstances we have practically defined ourselves to facilitate certain conditions of the election game, which is quite logical, natural and, I would say, correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74182	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74183	Mr Ruzic, of course, that no constitution, no law, and not even one regulation can predict the pandemic, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has provided for an emergency situation and circumstances under which the state of emergency is being introduced and what is going on. And he prescribed that same constitution that the state of emergency was introduced by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but you skipped it, but on the day of the suspension of the state of emergency, what happened here when? Three or four days ago. On the day of the suspension of the state of emergency, Minister Ružić, the Constitution from letter to letter is automatically applied. So there's no more deviations as they exist in the state of emergency. Emergency measures are something else, and we expect it to be more precise, more serious by the crisis staff, that some will be binding because we really need to protect the health of the people. Obviously, the pandemic hasn't calmed down yet, but life has to go on. So, the moment the emergency is lifted, that moment the Constitution, as you like to say, applies in its full capacity, you love this expression. This wasn't possible either. You say: We do not bring the law, but the People's Assembly adopts it. Thank you for the information. Now, if you'll just give us one more piece of information, who whispered to you that this bill, first draft, then do it? Who told you that? You're that formal organ that did it. Who whispered to you to do it? Then he says, "Yes, this will be brought by the Messengers of the people." Mr. Rose, don't say that. Just tell us, how do you say if there isn't one of those stamps? How could he possibly have them somewhere? Did someone abuse something? Did someone print something and verify some signatures, make some kind of abuse? How could he possibly have them in the first place? Minister Ruzic, a little better on your jurisdiction, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74184	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74185	Thanks, buddy. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot agree with my colleague Radet, although I have been very often able to accept their amendments, colleagues and colleagues from the SRS for many reasons. One of the basic reasons is that these are not normal times and that the conditions can't even be normal. We've come across a period that we honestly haven't had in the last fifty, maybe more, years. Normally, a colleague is a prominent lawyer and she will find reasons to control and say – it is not, how to do, here's an example, let's say, a big seal problem. Exactly, there are no stamps, they're probably destroyed, because it's been a change of law, but anyone who's done a little business and who's had a little need for a seal knows that the seal can be done in an hour. So that's not some big problem, that's what we'll end up with. Someone will say, "They asked the radicals to narrow down the ability of the notaries to do what they do." Maybe this is one moment that suggests that there will be a change of laws in the future and that there will really be a lot of changes in this job that is now being done by notaries. I agree with that requirement about the notaries and the perpetrators you're looking for, and I believe this may be the beginning of getting rid of it all. Now, let's look at the situation in the country. Just now, a colleague of Milly was talking about the problems that cattlemen have in his neighborhood. Aren't these the important problems that we're going to have to solve in the future? Don't make fun of me here, as my Blacks say, about some things that don't matter. We want to meet all those who want to participate in the elections, to allow them in a safer way by citizens and in a easier way to come up with signatures that are necessary to hand over the lists. Some parties, including us and the radicals, have already collected signatures on the principle they were. But it won't bother us any more than those who, frankly, will be able to do it. So let's not argue over some things that are not the place to argue right now. Let's get this over with, let's get you going, let's get the election going, let's get this election over with and get started on a serious job waiting for Serbia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74186	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74187	We absolutely are in favour of continuing the electoral action, and that is why we asked even for the emergency to be lifted on May 3rd, midnight, before you suggested it. For that reason, we voted to abolish the state of emergency. We do not want in any way to put an end to a democratic process in the country. On the contrary, I want it to be in accordance with the law and the Constitution. You, my people, are today like the one who spoke. What do you hold to the law as if it were drunk? You're breaking the Constitution, you're breaking the roof laws that regulate this. We can't do that. We want to make it easier for someone now. You're not good fairies, you don't even have the right to do that in relation to your election list. You don't even have the right to put your electoral list in a more difficult position than they are called, "One of five million". If you were able to collect signatures, if you were really collecting them as realistically as you're doing, why couldn't someone else? Does anyone who says – I would go to elections, does he have to go out? You know what conditions you need to meet. Whoever meets the requirements, let us be here as much as possible, I mean 250 MPs, but as many political parties as it is, it doesn't bother anyone, but it doesn't mean – well, we'd like this to go to elections, but how to get his signatures together, let's break the law to do it. It's not possible and it's not normal, as my colleague Ljubisha said, that all of this is happening under abnormal circumstances. No, nothing is abnormal, anything can fit into the Constitution, anything can fit into the laws if you really want to. It is only abnormal here that what is now happening in front of the National Assembly, that one part of the government is strikein', one branch of the government is strikein' against another branch of government within the same government. Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74188	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74189	I'm sure you've noticed then how much we're in power there, I mean the D.A.'s office, and I'm thinking about the court. How long are we there in power? Well, we're not at all. And it is well known to everyone in this country that both in the prosecution and in courts, for the most part today, and today, the staff of Gilas, Jeremic, Tadic and others who chose these people are obviously with the aim of being faithful to them today. Because I can't understand the different reason for the relationship that we have by these, as you say, the branch of power, just obviously not our authorities, according to the phenomena that are absolutely unacceptable to us, and not just to us, I trust every decent, reasonable in this country, absolutely unacceptable, that no one finds invited, and that it should be called itself by, say, in some prosecutor's office, to react when at a small door, as someone said, but not by an incident, but by an obvious plan of fascism in this country, when fascist phalanges are gathered here at the entrance to the National Assembly to abuse, attack, try to kill the MP, and there's no responsibility for that. So, the only thing that's abnormal, since it's said that something abnormal is here, is that we pretend to be blind, deaf and naive, not to see these phenomena and then someone else gives it to themselves for justice, which is what both Gilas and the marines and everyone else did, to try to relativate and justify these things and to do it as a play of something normal, beautiful, decent and totally acceptable. How acceptable? For what reason is acceptable? Because they do it to people who do not belong to them politically, but to those people openly, like Marijan Risticevic or any MP who makes up most of them, but not only to most people, they don't think of anything better, better or you, that we don't lie, that they can try to kill. And now it needs to be nice, normal and democratic. Well, it's not. So democracy is all the opposite of that. That's what we're protesting today. And since I've noticed the tendency to make some jokes, jokes, jokes, nothing is absolutely funny to us, such as the ridiculous question of dialogue, the attitude to the National Assembly, the attitude to that democracy. This is a matter of attitude to the state. Will we want Serbia that is democratic or Serbia that is fascist? There's absolutely nothing funny about that. The issue can be handled responsibly, as Alexander Martinovic and Sandra Christmas do today, or irresponsiblely, so each one should choose on which side he thinks he belongs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74190	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74191	Honestly, we Serbian radicals are the most offended when someone says we are the same, and in fact you and those who are not in the O.R. right now are the same. As for the prosecution, dear colleague, remember or look at the stenograms of how many times we've worked here we've called the prosecution, how many times we've called Zagorko Dolovac, how many times we've asked him to react to the crime of ministers from Zorana Mihajlović, Rasim Ljajic, Zlatibor Lončar, public enterprises, drugs, everything. We've mentioned the Attorney General Zagorko Dolovac many times, asking you to secure her in the National Assembly. She sent some of her deputies there. But you just have to remember that Zagorka Dolovac is your attorney general, yours. You've renewed her mandate. If it wasn't good, if it was theirs, then why didn't you bring yours, what do you say? Imagine, my people, my people, if you hear, the messenger of authority says that they are not in power in courts and in prosecutions. Well, would you like to be? Should you be? Is that possible? The prosecution and courts are independent, the prosecution independent authorities. The fact that it is a branch of government, one of the branches of government under our Constitution, is not giving it to you, says man – we did not, as he said, have to write down this miracle of sentence, we, he says, are not power, but they are yellow. It's really scary that someone who's the government should be thinking that he should be the authority in courts and the authority in the prosecution.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74192	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74193	As you said at the very end, on this thesis, which came from your side, I replied - that it was in the prosecution and it was in the court of our authority. Well, it's not, although you finally understand it's not, then we end up agreeing on something that should have been clear at the very beginning. So there's absolutely nothing here for us and we've never set ourselves up so that we're asking that there's something that's ours, I don't know, party or whatever, personally, private. We don't care about that. We don't care about that, but we don't accept the thesis and I don't blame you for the fact that there's obviously a lot of ugly stuff out there, it's supposed to be our burden. We weren't involved in this, and as you can see, these people are obviously trying to do things in a way that's harmful to us, but to the harm of this country, and that's what's the problem in the whole story. What's unacceptable to us is that there's any equality and anything between the former regime and us. So once again, find an example of whoever wants to remember that anyone on our side has been doing what they're doing today, what they've been doing all this time. Does anyone remember that we took, and forbidden any messengers to come to their work, to enter the Hall of the National Assembly, and to speak or vote here? No one will ever be able to remember such an example, there is no such example, as we have not done to the MPs of your party or the MP group, so we have not done absolutely to anyone else. We don't think of that. We don't care about that. When something like that happens, and as you can see, they're doing it, according to the direct order of Dragan Gilas, these backyards of his, uh, fascists. When something like that happens, so I guess anyone who really cares about democracy can just say this -- people, this is unacceptable, people can't do this. If we're going to talk about democracy, this is absolutely out of the question. Not that this is justice, not that this is relativating, not that it is going to some fiction, so Marijan Rističević kept the knife. What knife? A knife that looks like half the key chain on one side of the hand, half the key chain on the other side of the hand. The key chain. So senselessly obvious lies that they would, what, justify the attempted murder, and that's what those who sent those courtyards did, but also their media who blew up all day yesterday that Marian Risticevic, imagine, held a knife. It's just a lie. (President: Thank you. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. For those simple lies, not just the MP they tried to kill, all of Serbia owes an apology to all of them. The D.A. owes him to react, to do his job. Either we're going to protect the law, or we're going to protect the institutions and protect democracy in this country, or we're going to throw ourselves into the buds of those fascists, and I don't think any of us sitting in this room right now want that to be an option that's gonna go too far in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74194	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74195	We think it's absolutely illegal and unacceptable that what happened to the MP attack some mob outside the National Assembly. We said it loud and clear, but we didn't want to be part of the game so let me say, if you don't change Nebojsa Stefanovic, we'll strike hunger. No, I don't. We just told you – Nebojsa Stefanovic, as police minister, is responsible for why he did not react immediately. Can't, colleague Orlic, I understand that you're teaching electrical engineering at some medical school, maybe there's something that can be connected, but the lawyer is not, you're consulting, but there's no Martinovic now and you're all hungry for legal knowledge, so the prosecution has to react without reporting. The application is filed by the police, and we said that – this must not happen anymore. It happened, what to do, I guess no one could have predicted, but the police had to react. The police didn't react until everyone passed on what we said here, then they remembered to arrest 10, 15, 12 people. And it's okay to have them arrested, but that should have been done right away. It shouldn't have happened. In fact, if the police had responded, it wouldn't have happened, because the police shouldn't have allowed the assembly in front of the National Assembly the day the session was held. You know no one, no friend or cousin of the MP, can park a car or can't get in if he doesn't come down here. There's some order. No, you've let it all go, with you all can be satisfied with this Fajon, to be satisfied with these various kinds of, uh, estranged and unsuspecting officials, just so that you're here, that they applaud you, and that you're violating your own Constitution and the laws of your own state, that's not what you're interested in, and then someone of your hunger will strike after. What? For what? What? I guess she'll be responding to the prosecution now, this one of your Zagorka Dolovac's? You can't wash yourself if it's not yours. Your congregation majority chose, yours. Now that she's not doing, that she's hidden somewhere, well hidden in some corner... We've been praying, Godfather, let's send someone to derail the D.A.'s office, maybe make up some corner, you didn't want to, now, strike now that you don't have Zagorka.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74196	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74197	I really don't understand what's fun for you in this whole situation, so that you're trying to keep kidding, that you're trying to make some personal notes to make this more interesting. Nothing here is fun or funny, nothing we should enjoy talking about. That's the first thing. The other thing, as far as the police are concerned, the police responded yesterday, not waiting for anyone on any side of this room to remember to say something. The police responded yesterday immediately after what happened and if someone else hadn't seen it, I don't believe you're following the news so much, the 15 participants of that rally really ended up in the police. You've seen or haven't seen, if you've decided you haven't seen, that among them is any wonderful world, that there were good human rights champions, one with 13 years in prison for drug dealing. That's what brought that fascist Gilasov Bosko Obradovic here. There were still a few of them a couple of years ago, it seems to me, three or four, also, prisoners, already certified and done, which is for robbery, which is for inflicting severe injuries. So, I'm all wonderful, honest, nice world. This is an indication to you that notorious criminals, that bandits are the most common, that bandits, those people who gave themselves the right to do what happened two days ago -- to attack a cat, in a horde, in a pack, as it is said and true, Marijana Rističević, to bring him down on the floor, to crush him, to bleed his head, and then to make his own media performances as some pushing, an incident, and there may be someone torn up his jacket and nothing more. When they saw that the lie would not pass, then they went to defend it with worse lies. It was Marian Risticevic himself, who provoked them, he threatened them with something. It all happened. When someone's having fun with that story, I just don't understand it, there's absolutely nothing nice about it, there's nothing fun about it. You know exactly who did what and who didn't. What we're responding to today is this lack of work done by the prosecution and, once again, no one can say absolutely in this country that it's the prosecution in any way ours. So, those who don't do business in this situation, let's know it well and understand it well, do it absolutely directly, directly contrary to what we're sending as a message all the time. We say - it's unacceptable, we say - it's an attack on democracy, we say - it's an attack on the state... (President: Thank you. We invite, not just the people’s messengers, as much as we love us or do not like to be defined accordingly. We also call on your human rights fighters and independent institutions and NGOs and all those who are first to yell at Alexander Vukic and SNS. Say now, define yourself and determine yourself – is it democracy, is it human rights... (President: Thank you, colleague Orlic.) )......................................................................................................... What did Gilas's phallangists, I finish, do the other day, and then try to justify? I guess I don't expect too much of what I think every man decent should say about his court and his position on the matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74198	Thank you. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74199	I was very concerned, since Easter is far away, that Martinovic will wait until he defiles himself with the Easter egg, that is, to end a strike like Tom at the time on the Styrofoam, and then it occurs to me that these days will be the anniversary of the day you were supposed to react, to call the prosecution, to file a criminal complaint against the president of RIK and the president of the state because they... That's exactly what Martinovic and Sandra Christmas can do with Bosca and this Chevarlic. That's when you were supposed to react, say we're not gonna listen to Scott. Bosko Obradović, Dveri, DSS, Tadic, Canak, Ceda, have not crossed the censorship, they cannot be MPs, they must not enter the National Assembly, until of course some of the next elections when they may have had no idea how much. That's when you made a mistake and it's, of course, four years back as a boomerang, not just for you. None of you said what they were doing in front of the National Assembly and what they were doing, we didn't support any of it. I repeat, the first one we said was supposed to react. It should not have happened that there was a bulument gathered in front of the National Assembly at the time of the session, nor that he was dealing drugs, etc. Of course, but you miss under the influence of Scott at the time, now you've given in to the influence of NGOs within this EU convention in Serbia, you give in to such dissipations, and then you break all of us in the face of what is due to your bad political moves, in fact, not the bad, your bad political moves are your own thing, but the unconstitutional and illegal moves you've been doing and what you're doing. So at that time, the Dolovac would not today be a People's Messenger. Maybe he'd be in front of the assembly. Maybe he'd have 100,000 men, maybe his political power would be much greater. We're not worried about it, but we're worried about the fact that in the National Assembly of the Sea, as well as in the whole state that the law is respected, and you see what it's all about, then let's play, let's go to the circus, let's strike from 12 till noon, pointlessly, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74200	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Vladimir Orlic answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74201	I was convinced that everyone in this country knows that in RIK, who must be making decisions, whether they want something or won't accept it, the SNS doesn't have a majority. She's had no previous election, no election before that. If someone didn't know, although I doubt he could not know, he can only close his eyes on that fact, so today he also reminded Aleksandar Martinovic, who, you will notice, is not involved in any circus or what you already called a serious man, and these are once again too serious things to talk about them in the way that it is persistently done. These people, therefore, I think that the new extremists who have well entered the open display of fascism, are indeed during this gathering in this National Assembly, but not only in it, showed all sorts of things, which may have been unimaginable to you as we have, inconceivable that we don't remember ever having existed in previous councils, but in the history of multilaterals, if you will, in this modern, but to understand one thing, it's wrong to say after that, and now it's breaking down about who - except Alexander Vukic and SNS and us sitting here... (The Faith of Radeta: Serbia. )... It's a message. Now, that's a message, a message I've been repeating for the third or fourth time in a row. It's a message. They worked on the head two days ago right outside the entrance of this Marijana Rističević, and who is their primary target, which is a non-stop target, on a target that is able and open to point at his chest, that is Aleksandar Vukic. They don't do that to other political leaders. Whose children are being threatened with murder and other abominations, remember all that, you've all heard about it by rape and slaughter and other most morbid, most disgusting things in the world? His kids. And if we don't lie about it, it's their primary targets, and that's why they hit it like they hit it, that's why they hit it in their media, that's why they're making it a senseless campaign and trying to cause as much evil as possible in this country. (President: Thank you. So, if someone suffers, I end up, Mr. Chairman, so it's clear, it's quite clear who in this country suffers, but notice that we on our own side never complain, as you've never seen Alexander Vukic, that like Gilas - on three, four, now shoot me, dive tears and want over his fate, he's always been able to squeeze his teeth and fight further because we know what we're fighting for and because we don't let anything interfere with it, and it's the greatest punishment for the bad guys who try to shake honest people all the time. What you said earlier was true. The most vulnerable here is Serbia itself. If we let those, the worst of the worst, succeed, get this over with, get fascism into the country, then it doesn't matter which one of us goes down individually. In that case, the country itself was destroyed, its future was destroyed, and the children we often talk about, all of Serbia's children, all of them will be equally victims and ruin will be common.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74202	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The reply came from the Verse of Radet. Please and fellow Eagles to close this circle of replicas. One more. I see you disagree, but there are no insults, so there's no reason to continue. Here's my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74203	The closing of the replica is up to you, Mr. Vice President. This morning, you promised that the next round would be completed by the final presentation of the SRS MPs. We'll see if he does. We have one very short replica, a concrete proposal. The assembly is in a regular session. You will end this today, you will vote on these laws, RIK will perform tomorrow with new deadlines according to these laws, in accordance with the agreements reached on a new date for holding elections, and we MPs will sit here again and put on the agenda responsibility, the report on the work and responsibility of Zagorka Dolovac as a state prosecutor, the report on the work and responsibility of Nebojša Stefanovic as a police minister, so we can tell everything here in detail, see which of them will survive, who will go away. Of course, you have a majority, but just to be realistic and to keep everything in line with the law and not be too late again. This is a proposal to make sure that by the next election, these first elections will be on June 21st and on that election day, etc. having a completely normal pre-election atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74204	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74205	Thank you. I appreciate it, and I'll end up in a similar way. If we talk about the election atmosphere, if we talk about how we should behave together, everyone can be 100% sure – it is our wish and our interest that in the period to the elections, even after the elections, without any difference, this country deals with smart things and topics that are of common interest. So, let's talk about economics, talk about what we're going to do together in a period that's just coming. These are things that concern every citizen and his standard of living, but also the quality of the roads he uses and the sewers he needs to have. It's also about the opportunity for his kids to get a job tomorrow. This also concerns questions about how we see Serbia in five, 10, 15 years, whether we are able, and we have shown that we are, that we make it only better and more successful from year to year. These are things that are of our taste, if someone wants to ask, but also to point out the dangers and to say that it is not acceptable, that it is absolutely out of the question that this country falls into fascist claws, that they further poison it with their lies, that they are lying about the fact that Marijan Risticevic threatened someone with a knife, which has never happened, and other lies from that kitchen – chickens from Morović, etc. and these lies that they are trying to sell today in an incredible campaign, trying to justify themselves and make themselves as some victims. You know what Bosko Obradovic says in front of the National Assembly? That he is protesting, you know why, because he caught one false news, one of the notorious lies published by the Gilas media today, that Alexander Vukic allegedly said that the final solution to KIM, which we are going to bring, would be independent Kosovo throughout its territory. So the lie is the most common and the most common forgery. They took part in Alexander Vukic's statement from last year... (Miljan Damjanovic throws.) )......................................................................................................... . Feel free to yell, make some money, I know it's none of your business, but I'm talking to people who listen. ... in which Aleksandar Vukic actually said – because they sabotaged, because they were trying in every way possible to destroy the efforts of the Serbian state, the efforts that went in the direction of making one permanent and sustainable solution in KIM that would allow Serbs and Albanians to live with, all those from Serbia in the hunt participated, and those jilas and others participated, all of them leading to only one goal and their goal is to make a solution that will not be compromised, but will be what they hope for, and that is for Kosovo to be so-called. an independent state in all of its territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74207	So, it's... I'm finishing my sentence, Mr. Chairman. So that's the whole and complete truth and now these Gilas fascists are trying to use it as some excuse for what they're doing today and for the reason they get the sympathy of anyone in this country. I fear that there will be nothing for one single reason – the citizens of this country do not sympathise, so they cannot even show understanding for fascists, they cannot feel sorry for fascists, they cannot identify with them, we have always been a free people, the people proud of their anti-fascist tradition, and that is why they do not go through the insidious attempts of Bosko Obradovic, or Dragan Gilas, or the likes of them. I think it's absolutely clear to everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74208	Thanks, buddy. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74209	I'll fill in my colleague Orlic, he's already out of the picture, so he talked about what the government did, what it showed the people. That's the pre-election part. He forgot a few things, I'll just fill it in. Yes, you showed the people how the Ministers are stealing from you, you showed the people how the affairs like "Jovanja" and "Kruška" are hidden under the carpet, you showed the people how the perpetrators throw people out and leave them with no roof over their heads, you showed the people how the hara import lobby at the expense of our Serbian peasant, and so, you showed some things that really don't recommend you just as it seems to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74210	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74211	Okay, so if that's all the answer to these lies and plantings they're trying to put in Alexander Wolf's mouth, then how can I take that up as an attempt to join someone in that campaign? I really don't understand. So, on the day we talk about how they beat up a colleague, beat his head, tried to kill him, the day we talk about them trying to agree that he threatened someone with a knife, the day we talk about a monster campaign running against Alexander Vukic and his family again, that in response we get what -- we seem to be guilty of everything that's going on, we seem to have earned everything. I'm afraid not. And whoever's trying to match us with the former regime in that, I think he's just making a terrible mistake. It will never be the same for those who guard the institutions with those who have destroyed this Assembly, among other things, burned, which is more than well known to all. It will never be the same as those who work for everyone's children, and every child tries to provide everyone with a better future, with those who unwittingly attack the children of Alexander Vukic, other members of his family or children of anyone who is politically on the side of the SNS or the parliamentary majority. There is no equality, and no one will be able to do it, no matter how hard I try and say it. At the very end, there will never be equal to those who defend democracy in this country, what people and your colleagues are doing today that you should respect, even if you respect it. So, those who have shown themselves willing to fight fascists and punks for that democracy are usually 13 years in prison for dealing with our children. There is no equality, there will never be, because Serbia realizes that there is a huge difference. So in this country, I appreciate, and on June 21st, as much as anyone was worried about that date, only the politics of Alexander Vukic, the list he leads and this time, because he provides the future for all the children of Serbia, but also because of the notor fact – is that list, that policy and that man by the name and last name of Aleksandar Vukic dam that these fascists, that these bandits come back to power in Serbia as much as anyone has a high opinion of themselves, the other dams are not, you know who it is, Alexander Vukic and SNS, remember that well.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74212	Thank you, colleague Orlic. This is Veronica Radet, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74213	You in power, for four years, are trying first of all to tell the public that we Serbian radicals are a little bit, little bit the same as those so-called. The pro-European opposition. We're joining them now, and it's not the first time. Indeed, and I end this circle of replicas, only with one clear and precise sentence – the SRS is the opposition, both the authorities and the opposition to this part of the so-called. European opposition. The Serbian Radical Party has only never been and will not be an opposition to Serbia and the people. And who's going to make the election, I'd still like to wait for June 21st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74214	Thank you. It's been a pleasure listening to you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a more recent time in Serbia, the electoral system, or electoral legislation, is about 30 years old. At first, it wasn't perfect. It was not possible to pass and make electoral legislation that would be perfect. With the involvement of the SRS in power, it's been repaired. Now what you want to do, it's not good, but as a good excuse it came to you, none of you wanted it, none of you could have ordered it, as a good excuse for what you want to do, or to spoil electoral legislation, is the former state of emergency, or Corona. But do you know colleagues that Serbia has been infected since 5 October 2000? The infection didn't arrive now. And we're trying to fight successfully here, but it doesn't seem possible. We don't have any allies in you who are currently in power. Who will win with such electoral legislation? It will also be the EU because it is trying through specifically this law, related to the election of MPs to introduce some of its future leaders or its favorites into this parliament. It also seems to me that the SNS, in order to be able to say – well, you see, we're going to meet, we're responding positively to all your demands. That's not good. First, when it comes to the view that the MP can decide on his own terms, you have seen what we have. Someone here mentioned the burning of the Assembly, I mean, I don't recognize it here, but there are a lot of those in your ranks who took part in the burning or at least supported it. We through electoral legislation would have to seriousise the electoral system and be the best in parliament, to be the best representatives of the people. If we do it this way and we say that these signatures can be verified, I don't know where they won't be able to verify themselves, we're doing it a little unserious, this election game. Let's understand when it comes to local elections, out there somewhere, I don't have the exact information, but I think several hundred lists appear, counting on SNS in each place, there's one in each city, but there's a group of citizens, there are other parties, let's go out there and meet. There's a little difference, and now I'm going to explain to you how and how it's created. When it comes to parliamentary elections, the whole of Serbia is one electoral unit, 10,000 signatures for all and now no one needs to answer and change that. We don't change that anything and we think it's an optimum, that those political parties that can provide that number of signatures are serious. Those who can't, who need you to provide the signatures, should not even participate in the elections. But since MPs very often know that they are very cheap and corrupt goods, that's how it suits you. You created Bosko Obradovica, Scott pushed him here, we were against it, we suggested that survey committees be formed to examine what he's doing now, very rudely and dangerously for Serbia, it suits you in the election campaign. How? Because you will say, because you say, "If you do not, this is what they will come to you." You're scaring the citizens of Serbia. I guess they're self-aware and mature enough not to deserve to be the bearers of power in Serbia. And we talked more about him here in these two days than anything else, and there's a real problem. Is it the place to talk about it today? Yeah, why not? Yes, counterpart Miletic, it is a question of who to buy, at which price to buy, but the milk in Serbia, you know it well, raw milk in Serbia may not have changed the price for nearly ten years. That's what we need to talk about. Well, someone whose party means something to, and Serbian radicals certainly can't play it like that and they don't want to play it like that. And you see here, there's none of these. Who is ready for a four-year term, four or five times, maybe more, to change the political party? It's obviously a big problem. Don't forget that you're helping to make it so. And now you're going to help. And now a certain number of MPs will enter the Assembly, by helping you secure signatures, by making someone come in. What Nenad Canak was very popular in Baja Basta, in a beautiful Drin village of Bačevci, means at the border between Ljubovia and Baja Basta, SNS activists have been collecting Nenada Canka's signatures for Serbia's president with citizens. So, aren't you in on it? Some of you may not have known. And Alexander Vukic says - I will not kneel before five million people. And that's good. There's nothing violent that can be done. There are procedures that you, as followers of DS policy, must be good at, but you are under the most banal pressures, under the most banal pressures of NGOs and servants from the EU. We need to take this problem seriously here and not degrade electoral regulations that don't bring any good to you either. There's one more thing. In one day, you made it possible for the citizens of Republika Srpska to get citizenship without paying a fee. I'd like it possible, and in the election campaign, I'd like it to be possible over and over and over again every day, not only when the elections are over, you'll end it and put something like that off. Don't do that. You bring serious regulations to work seriously in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74216	Thank you, Mr. Perry. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74217	Thank you. I picked up on Mr. Peric's replica because he called me, specifically bound to something milky. I want to answer. (President: He didn't mention you. It is. A moment ago, Mr Ljubisa Stojmirovic also called me on the problems of small communities, where I was talking about the problems of buying out lambs. I understand everything and respect everyone. Here, this is the last day maybe where our meeting ends. For this period of four years, before that I was two, I was always correct, tolerable to everyone. I watched me act the way I wanted them to treat me, to host me, to represent myself, my family, my end, my municipality and the Peasant Party. Here I represent one party registered in 2009 or 2010. So I'd like you to respect me. I answer for the replica the same way as one doctor, the other. I'm not a doctor, I'm a semimedicus, I'm a veterinary technician. Maybe that's the problem. I will be on the SNS list in the coming period because I trust the president of Serbia. I will talk here in the Assembly about the problems of all our people living in southeastern Serbia in our villages in Nis. The problem I brought up earlier is the problem of buying out lambs. Now I'm going to suggest that no one resents it, since just now the president of the assembly said the pay of MPs is 100,000 dinars, which is. It would be good if we had 250 MPs here in the Assembly, each of us who are MPs, and the government and the opposition, that of those people who have problems with these lambs, have no place to sell them, let each MP take to buy two lambs, the price will be 10% lower, not 210 dinars, but it will be 300, 310 dinars, it is a real price, and that we help these people. These are people who are from Svrlig, the White Palanca, the Pyrota, these people have problems and that's what we have to work on. We've got problems to solve. We need to talk to people. Believe me, it's not the same thing when I come here from Srlig and say what the problems are in our midst, I feel it on my skin. There's one, there's no other, there's no third. I respect Belgrade, I respect Novi Sad, but I prefer to solve problems, so I return to these people, to Svrljig, to Nis, to Piroth, to Babusic, to Bela Palank, to Književac. People, you need to speak a language that the people need to understand. I condemn every violence because I'm so raised. My father was a cop and always told me – respect everyone, respect everyone, but never let anyone step on you. Therefore, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, always, in every place, we must support normal things. The normal thing is when you go out as an MP and say – the problem of small environments is that and that, the problem of people who deal with sheepmaking is that there is no placement for those lambs. The price is 250 dinars, that price is low, that price is not like those people. (President: Thank you, fellow Miletic.) That's why you should let me talk when I answer. If not now, we will have more time, if God will, the next election cycle, I will certainly be an MP because I know that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is leading Serbia right, I am on that list. That's why I want us to continue working for the prosperity of small environments, helping small communities and thus ensuring safety for people to stay there. (President: Thank you, fellow Miletic.) We don’t need any to come from the side, we need someone to live there normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74218	Thank you. Here, and now you've been talking on the line for three and a half minutes and I haven't noticed that anyone discriminates against you, any of the chairmans, but you can't talk all the time or as much as you want. That's the only problem. You've got a line. Here, now you can speak, since you have submitted the amendment to Article 3. Here's to the amendment. You have your time, you have a chance whenever you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74219	Thank you. I thank you again. Don't mind me, I really respect all of you who run the assembly, I respect every MP. There's no enemy for me here in the Assembly. There are people who think the same way I do, I work with these people, and there's someone who doesn't think like me, and I work with these people because I respect and love every man. I have submitted the amendment, and based on that amendment, I will now speak. In particular, regarding the amendment, since it was now passed under the proposal of the Minister of Law to be on the day of adoption, I said – in eight days. At the very least, one of the most important things is to really ensure everyone who wants to go to the polls, this is a good thing that we can do tomorrow and in small areas, in larger centres, small political options like the USS so they can collect signatures. We have enough men and infrastructure. But it was a notary problem. This is how we solve this problem when the city administration can verify the signatures or municipal administration. This is a good move, and in this way we will also give opportunities to small parties, groups of citizens that can go to elections to talk about the problems of their end, to talk about the problems of living there, and on this basis, citizens will appreciate whether they will support that small organisation or support someone else. The most important thing is that anyone who wants to go to elections to make it possible for him. This way it happens. Once again, as an MP, I will also represent the interests of people living in the country and from the village, people living in small areas, people living in the territory of southeastern Serbia, because I think we need to put more attention there. As I have always spoken, and now shall I say: the hand of the itch shall not scratch. One thing that matters to everyone here in the Assembly, that they know – if the peasant doesn't sink, the gentleman will be up there, if the peasant doesn't mess up, the gentleman will get in trouble. So let us stand by the peasants, so that Serbia may be strong for us and for our villages to be full of students. Once again, honourable MPs, I speak a language that perhaps bothers someone, perhaps I'm not speaking it right, I speak the language as spoken in my neighborhood, and I think it's the right language and the right speech for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74220	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Elections. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Djordje Vukadinović, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Gordana Comić, Marijan Risticevic, Marko Djurisic, Nenad Canak, Nenad Konstantinović, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Milija Miletic and Petar Jojic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 1st was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected this amendment and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and shall not be voted upon in accordance with Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74221	Thirty years of party pluralism in Serbia, restored since 1990, when it was held in December, was the first multi-party elections and when it seemed to me that more than 40, so did counterpart Obradovic, a party running in the election. Consistently, persistently and in line with the highest democratic principles, the SRS fought for Serbia to be one electoral unit and that one vote, each citizen who votes for a particular political party and thus transfers his sovereignty to the MPs, is indeed such that it is authentic and that it can be freely said that there is no manipulation, that the elections are regular. However, and unfortunately, we will wait for these elections, too, so that participants, especially those who will be favored by the SNS by amending this law and by means of verification of signatures with the authorities of the municipal administration, will make it simple to degrade parliamentary life so that everything we have done, for which we have fought back for 30 years, simply doesn't make any sense. A colleague, Orlic, said, a corresponding colleague of Radeti, that the SNS does not have a majority in the Republic Election Commission. For everyone who knows the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and above all the Rules of Procedure, it is clear, and this is the basis of parliamentary law, that the rights and obligations of the MP begin to run by verifying his mandate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today, in front of the National Assembly, this Ljojticvac Bosko Obradović, with the rights and obligations of the MP, is in front of you. You gave him the right to do so when on June 3rd 20916 despite opposition from the Serbian Radical Party, you verified his mandate on the electoral list, which did not receive a sufficient number of votes. You did the same thing with this list of these traitors and pro-Western pawns of Ceda-Chanak-Tadic and now everything is back to you as a boomerang. We warned you that regardless of the pressures, and you've had tremendous pressure since then US Ambassador Scott, you remain consistent with the principles of parliamentary democracy, the Constitution and the choice of MPs. Now we're coming up with another situation. After four years, Serbia and the whole world recorded a pandemic of incredible proportions, with invisible, as experts say, the enemy, Kovida - 19, which affected the suspension of electoral action and the election process by June 21st. In all countries, several of them in Europe, where the election process was either started or planned, the Koronavirus pandemic has affected possible delay and consensus on when these elections will be held. They've been completely delayed for a year, and locals in France, despite everything, have been held. And in Serbia, you who keep talking, and I guess that's normal for every reasonable man, that the health and safety of citizens in the first place, did not affect the pandemic of the Koronavirus, how elections will be held, when 21st will now be, but lower-class officials from the European Union. And when Aleksandar Vucic says - come on, let's let him give me a name of that and that which will come to me from the EU to order this or that, well, you know, there he is, by chance, fellow Marinkovic is chairing the session now, and he's very directed to the extractive actions of many parliamentarians, both congressmen from America and parliamentarians all over Europe, so it's not done that, but in the way that they do it constantly, when you're looking at everything we Serbian radicals talked about, you plant your foot wherever they reach and do it, and how the pressure on the structures of the government in this country that we don't have any economic or good political relations with Russia, nor with China. I am a witness to the fact that in the documents, here in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, there was also in the Council of Europe, it was decades ago that Serbia was asked to accept a report saying that they were bothered by any economic and any other progress in relation to Serbia and the People's Republic of China, and about Russia not to speak, military co-operation. You kept your mouth shut, so, like, you might have suffered, but for what? For the sake of remaining in power, for good relations with them, so that perhaps the European Union will give you some help. Then you remembered, now that this monster has happened to all mankind, to say, out of their humanity nothing, and then you've corrected yourself, with these new billboards, to thank Europe. But many sober parliamentarians in Bundestag and other countries have noticed it, some left-wings -- what humanity, what their concern for Serbia, etc. You have brought a whole painful process of developing parliamentary life and the highest standards that should be applied in this country to degrade them, to simulate certain alleged democratic processes, and Branko Ruzic, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, should now take responsibility for how, contrary to the law on the order of signature, copy and how already fellow Jovanovic, this law, which was adopted in 2018, will be carried out over the signing of parliamentary elections, because Serbia is a single electoral unit. Well, you know, since one electoral unit, and since it suits you now who knows who shows up in the election just like that, and absolutely has absolutely no support, let alone to collect tens of thousands of signatures, then this year, as we did 25 years ago and over, we can expect some new yoga flyers, universalist movement and so forth, circusrs, just because you're afraid of what Fajon, this Frankenstein, Kukan and the rest of the ex-EU parliamentarians are going to say to you. You should have, if you wanted this election process to continue, but by the highest standards, to listen to all the suggestions of the SRS, because as we said you shouldn't verify without enough votes to mandate Ljotic Bosca and the rest of his brotherhood, so all of this will be safe as a boomerang to return to you, but then it will be really late for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74222	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74223	A few things. First, what we are discussing at this session has absolutely nothing to do with NGOs, European intermediaries, or anyone but the political parties in this country who decided to go to the elections on 21 June. So these are the ones who spoke with the President of the Republic on the subject of the date when we will hold elections in this country this year and at that meeting have just discussed how to protect the health of people who might want to support someone, who is still more expensive. Of course it doesn't apply to parties that ended it a long time ago. That's quite clear, but it's in the interest, first of all, of people who would like to support someone. I'm not getting into it at all. And whether or not that someone is going to succeed in collecting 10,000 signatures or not, I'm not getting into it. It concerns citizens who would like to do it in a safe, healthy way. That's all and nothing needs to be mystified. That's the whole truth, and that's, I guess, a good thing anyone could just support. As for what was a political assessment that we do anything under pressure, well, as you can see, he also reminded of today Alexander Martinovic, Serbia has not succumbed to the pressures, and they are not small, to participate in the sanctions regime against the Russian Federation. On the contrary, Alexander Vukic himself said: "This is out of the question, and there is no one to force it today." It's said -- we have terrible pressures and, like, we're going to succumb to these pressures to stop our collaboration that's fantastic with the People's Republic of China. Just as it was raised to the historic highest level with the People's Republic of China in years behind us during which Alexander Vukic and the government led by the Serbian Progressive Party and the Russian Federation reached that level during that period. It never happened. So it's clear evidence that these pressures as much as they don't give results. Finally, I will end this, Mr Marinkovic, as for the pressure on what and as Serbia goes on, you see, these fascists who are savage and who, once again I remind us, attack us, break our heads, Alexander Vukic, threaten, and which is much scarier, which is much scarier, his children and the murders and the rapes and other abominations, if we were ever people who could break the pressure long ago, their desire to be enthroned without a choice would have been heard. Once again, Alexander Vukic made it clear, and one can not understand it only if he does not understand it – forget it. There's democracy in this country. As long as we take care of her, only democracy will be in force. There is no power without choice, there is no opportunity for you to repossess the skin from the back of the people, however hard you seek it and as much as you threaten us. The proof that this is all true and as proof that it's all just like that, these beast attacks and these attacks on both the National Assembly and the institutions and the state we're looking at these days. If we had been under pressure, if Alexander Vukic had agreed to these pressures, none of this would have happened, and as you can see, reality shows how things were standing, who was firm, who was principled and who was therefore on the most intense blow in the history of multiparty in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74224	Thank you. He volunteered for the replica, I presume, Nedjo Jovanovic. Mrs. Jovanovic, to your replica speech, and then you'll get a chance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74225	I thank you, Chairman. Given that Minister Branko Ruzic is not here, and he has been called, I have no intention of answering his calls on his behalf, but I have an obligation to respond on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to what was said. Branko Ruzic as minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, is part of the government of the Republic of Serbia which is ultimately responsible and committed to doing its job in the interests of citizens. His responsibility is the responsibility of the government. It does not take any specific responsibility here, but represents those views that the government represents and promotes, realising again in the citizens' interest. Something is said here that is not acceptable in the professional sense of the word, so in the shortest possible, in these two minutes, I will try to protect the right to the correct messages that go from this Assembly to the citizens and make a commitment to the citizens to say something. I will not dispute whether something is constitutional or not, because everything that has been done so far has been done in accordance with the law and the Constitution. Secondly, what is most important is that we cannot deal with administrative and technical issues when it comes to human life and health. Bake, signatures and everything else is carried out exclusively in accordance with what will hopefully be adopted laws, exclusively in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their health. Therefore, how administrative and technical arrangements will be made for the certification process is a technical matter and there will be no problems. Should we intervene in other laws? No, I don't. These are the provisions of the Lex specialis and they are applied as a Lex specialis compared to the roof laws. We have a lot of other laws where it exists, so I don't know why such criticism. At the very end, since I overstepped two minutes, I just want to say that the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown and proved that in this emergency situation it has responded in the best possible way, which is that the consequences caused by the Corona virus compared to the rest of the countries in Serbia are incomparably less, which means that we have successfully fought or we will fight the monster that has surpassed the entire planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74226	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The right to replica now has Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74227	I have the right to a replica and colleagues Orlici and Neđi Jovanovic. I'll put it together in one, so if I say any longer, you know that's what this is about. You see, colleague Orlic, not only did you notice it, and you're constantly potential, which is the most monstrous and the most terrifying thing, but the whole public could see that these monsters were starting to threaten another child in a cradle, I mean the youngest child of the president of the Republic, a little militia while she was still a minor girl. You knew all this, and we've all witnessed all of this and such campaigns against innocent children, but you've peeled them and held them like a little bit of water in the palm of your hand. Why do I say that? Just because you didn't react the way you were supposed to when they went into state television with motor saws, before that, the introduction of stones into the assembly, and the day before, the highlight of everything, the one you gave, the one you gave to, I mean the Latvian, the Fascist of Boška, which we first marked as such, and all the heritage and all the ideas of Monstrous Dimitri Ljotić and branded it as such at the beginning of this mandate, you allowed, that is, the failure directly by the Minister of Police of Neboj Stefanovic, not only to let the citizens know, because I don't know what the videos went to the public, mostly, from the works of the stairs and from that plateau outside the door, the three cars that they drove, imagine, where they couldn't keep the minister car of the government and the president of the Republic, they stopped there only until they got out of the car, they parked those cars in front of the stairs at their entrance to the national gathering and ended with their rally, and how they were finished with their fairness. Where could that have happened? When could this happen in the history of Serbia's recent parliamentaryism? You know, then somebody come in and park the truck, the beeper and you nothing, you stand there and say, well, that's some people. Well, only when they make an incident, then it's something we can't accept. We are talking about it with the best intention of protecting the integrity of the highest legislative body, Mr. Orlic. As for this observation, I was talking about it, Mr. Ruzic, which is why your colleague, Jovanovic, came forward, that you will take responsibility for yourself, because regardless of how you resorted in this way to change the overture of the signature, according to Neđo Jovanovic, a Lex specialis, there is one procedure for which each unit of local self-government and your ministry will have to correspond. You know that the most important thing about confirming the identity of a person who will support that list, and here it is obvious that those who could not do so, so if they were able to do so for the republican elections, those 10,000 signatures in one electoral unit, come out post-traumatically to the elections in order to satisfy everything that comes to you as a warrant from the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74228	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go, Mr. Eagle.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74229	Only one thing about who first recognized not only but also revealed the courtyards and the Latvians as such. That was done by SNS MP Aleksandar Martinovic at, literally, the first session in this session. He was the first, if we're gonna remember it all together. But it's not about who first remembered or who was first brave to say it and explain it. (Natasa Jovanovic: What are the consequences? We're talking about the consequences, I agree. Look at how this has all been going over the past few years in this National Assembly. They attacked Mrs. Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. It was made by bruises when they fell into her cabinet, the microphone was ripped here, Alexander Martinovic was attacked physically several times, Marjana Risticevic tried to kill a few days ago, and it is a clear indicator of who they were opposed to, as they say, the enemies, who intend to physically destroy them. They are, and I fully agree with that, legitimate targets, how they experience it, and they don't even hide it, so even underage children. If these are the children of Alexander Vukic, they are perfectly acceptable and normal, but it's terrible, you know, not what happens in those dark minds, but what happens to those behind them and who try to justify it all the time and who are okay with it just because it happens to Alexander Vukic and his family. It's a variety of media, it's a variety of analysts, it's a variety of false politicians who aren't any politicians. So these are the kabadiahs most common and businessmen who have decided to use politics as one of their secondary companies. In a society where you're trying to impose that Dragan Dilas is a politician, so that's a society where you're trying to make it equally wrong that Milovan Brkic from Tabloid is actually a journalist or some political analyst or political factor. So that's the level of relationship to truth and lies, to right and wrong, and there's no help there. Those who are able to say that one Brkic, who said - it is natural to kill Alexander Vukic and then haunt his children, and Danil and Milic and little Vukan, that it is something that is absolutely beautiful and wonderful and all of which should be harder. When you take it as your role model, and it was taken by these courtmen, Ljuticians, Gilas and others, when you take it as your political guru, then you declare that you believe that politics is allowed everything. When they did, and they did, it was quite clear, they opened the door for physical attacks on the MPs, they opened the door for the introduction of dictatorship, for fascism in this country, and with that everyone should be clear. Their campaign of lies is experiencing culmination these days, trying to re-insinuate, most shamelessly discrediting Alexander Vukic, planting as news today that he said that we would recognise Kosovo so called throughout his territory. They took his statement from last year, in which he said precisely, and everyone can find it, that they, therefore, are liars with, here, these jilas sites, "directly.rs" there, you know, it's directly with the "Darekt Media", that those liars once again have been raving against the difficult efforts of Alexander Vukic and the state of Serbia to make a solution for Kosovo and Metohija that will be a matter of compromise, a matter of balance and a matter of agreement between Serbia and Albanians. They sabotaged any chance that Serbia would get anything, that the Serbian people would get anything, and you know why, and it was quite clear then that Alexander Vukic and there is no need to falsify it, convince it, because they, these poor people, are most common, work directly for the benefit of the whole state of Kosovo and today try to justify themselves, their shameful role these days, and to collect some tears on their side, so that no more people would say that they are fascists. That's not gonna work in this country. Fascists are all well recognized and we will always call them the real name.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74230	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Natasa Jovanovic: Replica. ) Natasha Jovanovic, I can only give you by amendment. I listened to the MP, he spoke for four minutes. I tried to give you and him the opportunity to speak at the same time. I really listened very closely. Not one moment, nor Mr. Seselj, nor you, nor the SRS mentioned. Even 90% of his speech agreed with you. Please, I can give you the word after the amendment, but the replica doesn't. Thank you for understanding. Let's move on. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74231	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for you not to think that something was going on by chance, if these installations were to happen by chance, if Mr. Chevarlic had reported by chance, I need those who think so, to disappoint - nothing is an accident. If you think it's just because of Gilas' needs, that's not true either. So this is today's statement. It's all happening today. This is today's statement, ma'am. I don't know if anyone was saying that, Madeline Albright. This is her statement from today. So, Mr. Gilas and his team, which included the great host of Serbia, Chevarlic, were very nice and carefully synchronised along with Albanians and an Albanian mother named Madeline Albright. Here, this lady, who was the chief advocate of an independent Kosovo and to remind her that this former government, gathered around Gilas, was actively building that wild state of Albanian terrorists. What do they say about Wilbright and Elliot Engel, who's the lead lobbyist? Madeline Albright and Elliot Engel hit the Wolf hard. It's his fault, they say, that America turned against Kosovo. The former U.S. Secretary of State, known for its ill-known, Madeline Albright and the most famous Cypriot lobbyist, Elliot Engel, were hit hard by the president of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, and, behold, they were joined by Mr. Sevarlic, Djilas, Bosic, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74232	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Canak, Nenad Konstantinović, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74233	Thank you. In the same way as elections for MPs, as well as local elections, it takes the possibility that, apart from public notebooks, city or municipal administrations can do so in their offices. I'm going to say the same thing now, I was just talking about those issues in agriculture, but two days ago I was speaking and condemning the violence that people who were there were in front of the Assembly, where I passed, where we were whistled, on my colleague Marijan Rističević. All of us who are here want to do our job in the best possible way, as is our education. The wrong things, the violence, the masquerade, the fight, it doesn't look like either of us, because here we represent our people, the people who have always been tolerable, honest, combative, but never violent. We've always been right. Mr Risticevic felt what was wrong with those who are there now in front, those who are in every way trying to behave in a way that is not like the policy they presented to their voters in 2016. That policy was different, and now it's acting differently. It's something that doesn't lead to anything. I'm from this place and now and later on, I'll always support normal things, normal behavior. Now my colleague Dr. Martinovic and colleague Sandra Christmas are out there, strike hunger just to show that what was done two days ago is wrong and I can and I want to join them. I'll talk to them about it. These are really bad things, and from this place I call on all my fellow MPs to condemn violence, to condemn all that is bad, because tomorrow, when this is over, all this will be left behind, whether it's action or not. What you're doing right now, the ones out front, that's not good. This is not like those who run certain policy options. Politics is what it takes to be better for our people and for all people in Serbia, whether it's Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, whether it's Nis, whether it's Vojvodina. Once again, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Martinovic, Mrs. Sandra, I support what you're doing, a hunger strike. That's what we have to show that it's never good violence and it has to be answered for.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74234	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74235	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I would firstly like to point to a serious threat to the constitutional and legal order in the Republic of Serbia. Those in the National Assembly and in front of the National Assembly the other day are doing something that is not remembered in the parliamentaryism of the Republic of Serbia, they wanted to show us what democracy is. They even want to show us that democracy is it, that minority rule over most and that minority laundry on the terraces on the bandits is not responding. We Serbian radicals are the opposition, but we are not a destructive opposition. We work as SRS in the interests of Serbia and its citizens. A number of aspects of what has been happening lately in the National Assembly and what the external and internal enemy is doing. Article 132. A criminal code, an unlawful deprivement of freedom and the confiscation of freedom of movement for citizens where a prison sentence is scheduled for up to three years. In Article 135. The criminal code is prescribed the coercion and elements of the criminal act and here are present in the actions of this group of people who have violated the very reputation of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 138. - endangering security. Whoever threatens to attack a person's life or body will be punished. We had an attack on a prominent MP, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, but immediately to say that he is a national MP, and this status has Mr. Risticevic, an official person, and he has to be considered and qualified. Then, Article 73. - injury to the reputation of Serbia. Whoever publicly exposes and favours Serbia, its flag, coat of arms or anthem, will be punished by up to three years. I should also tell you, under Article 308, the attack on the constitutional arrangement -- which by force or threat, by using force, tries to change the constitutional arrangement of Serbia or to overthrow the most state-level authorities, will be punished up to 15 years. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Criminal Code provides that a MP may be called upon for immunity if he has committed a crime, if found, and for this criminal act, a sentence of up to five years is provided for. In this case, we have a prescribed sentence up to 15 years. Ladies and gentlemen, violent behavior is contained in the elements of Obradovic's behaviour and his followers. According to Article 112, therefore, the MP is an official person. Second, you have an attack on an official person, all those people who intervened here against these thugs are primarily official faces. Second, violent behavior, prescribed by Article 344. So, ladies and gentlemen, that's what we Serbian radicals will never allow and we will fight this behavior and we condemn that behavior. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to my findings that I came to a few moments ago, a criminal report filed against a group of these bullies and Obradovic was rejected. You see, if the MP was attacked, if he was hurt physically, if he had the property of an official, if he had enough evidence that a crime was committed to him, that he suffered physical injury, is there anything other than what we said a long time ago? There should be changes in the judiciary and the D.A.'s office. Please, how is it possible for citizens not to be allowed to take on criminal prosecution? What are the rights of Marijana Rističević? Not at all. He only has the right to file criminal charges to file objections. That objection goes to the chief public prosecutor. The senior prosecutor rejects and Marijan Risticevic has no right to take over the prosecution. It is therefore necessary to return the subsidiary prosecutor to the Code of Criminal Procedure so that citizens can enjoy certain rights under the Constitution and protect themselves and their property from the perpetrators of criminal offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74236	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Marijan Risticevic called, not a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74237	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, precisely because of what Mr Jojic said, our colleagues are sitting in front of the Assembly. They're trying to force an independent authority, prosecutors to do their job. The prosecution is independent, and the judiciary is independent. It's independent of this government, and it's not from the former. So there are many of their relatives, many members of their party, who in 2009, are in a famous not-reform, deformities of the judiciary set up as prosecutors and judges. I didn't want to vote for Zagorka Dolovac here. I also said why, exactly what my colleague was saying, I said literally, that I would cut off before I could vote for it, since the thieves from this yellow party say – while Zagorka Dolovac is the prosecutor, no one can tell us anything. I was quoting one of their politicians. That's why I didn't want to allow it, or vote for it to continue. What I just found out doesn't surprise me. I wonder why Zagorka Dolovac didn't give them medals, a 13-year-old dealer, a thug, a bully, so the convicted people who attacked me? There is another crime committed by the prosecutor, it is called a violation of the law by the prosecutor, i.e. by a judge for whom a certain sentence is also provided. If what the previous colleague claimed is true, I will file a criminal complaint against the competent prosecutor who broke the law, Article 344. Criminal code, least of all. It's a violation of the law by the prosecutor, and that's why I'm going to file, if that's true, I'm going to file a criminal report because I can't strike hunger because of my medical condition, and I'm not going to strike hunger for Boskovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74238	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74239	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, citizens of Serbia, here we are likely to end today with this meeting and four years of the term of office of this assembly has shown a number of positive things, where a large number of laws have been passed that are very good, excellent for our citizens. I was as a folk MP on the SNS list – Aleksandar Vukic was very active and I wanted to be a spokesman for all those problems, all those things that happen in southeastern Serbia, that happen in agriculture, in the country, that happen in small municipalities, demographically threatened environments, and so I will continue to work in the next period. I think it takes all of us who come from some environments, whether it's Srlig, the White Palanca, I represent those people. It would be good if in the coming period we had the opportunity to invest more in these villages, in these municipalities, that the town of Nis, as the centre of Southeast Serbia, had at least one minister or one deputy prime minister representing both southeast Serbia and that part of our country. The town of Nis is the centre of southeast Serbia, and because of what I'm saying, I have repeatedly talked about the problems that were in the territory of the city of Nis and Southeastern Serbia, these are the removal of radioactive thunderbolts, solving the problem of charging ramps, solving the problem of building a road from Malcana loop to Knjaževci Street. These are problems related to small areas, small villages, more investment for our children, for our women in the country, for the rescue of the railroad. That's a lot of trouble I've been putting out here. I think it was necessary to know and solve these problems. Once again, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, once again, I wish everyone a lot of health, success, and I am sure that in this next election cycle of the list led by Aleksandar Vukic – "For Our Children", we will win convincingly, we will get the greatest commitment, the greatest support of the people. This means the greatest responsibility that everything we haven't finished, to end it in the coming period, to be better for everyone, especially for people living in the country and from the village and living in southeastern Serbia, because believe me, it's the hardest place to live there.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74240	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the Bill's proposal in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases You have received amendments submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanović, Milorad Mirčić and Marijan Rističević under the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74241	Well, as absurd as this whole debate is, these proposals may also show in this law concerning criminal provisions. We Serbian radicals, in order to draw the public's attention and what it is, in order to point out in some way, we have proposed an amendment that reduces that range between the lowest and most fines to be paid both by a legal and a natural person. And then we get a response from the restoring ministry, which is to suggest that the population's paid power was taken into account. Now that a man is watching, he simply cannot believe that he lives in this Serbia, where the minimum wage is far below this lowest level of punishment that the government has determined to be 50,000 dinars, from 50 to 150 thousand. We're just for emphasis, nothing more, we said -- come on, once it's done, let's make it 100,000. Receipts in Serbia are that they do not have enough funds to pay even this minimum fine. And aside from that whole story, the reality in which we live is completely different than the criminal policy that's being conducted in terms of pandemics and violations of regulations. But here we have an example that is quite shocking. You let people gather, attend public gatherings without protective equipment, sit on stairs, or warn anyone, let alone write him a sentence or bring him in, as the regulation requires, and here you already think in advance that ordinary citizens or those legal persons will have to pay no small fines like this. You think that this way you will introduce additional discipline or achieve that desired effect. You won't, gentlemen, but you will instigate even more discrimination. The law of the sea and the rules must apply to all equally. When it comes to criminal provisions, they must be at a level consistent with the incomes and standards of Serbian citizens, and not by putting in instead of 30,000, you put in 50,000 or you put 70,000, and the maximum is 500,000 for legal persons, or 150,000 for natural persons. Not a small number of people, especially those who are the most endangered by nature, the pensioners, receive that they make up hardly an end to the end, not that they pay such a dragonish, high penalty, which will be the matter or subject of an individual's assessment to carry out this criminal policy. Neither can the state, and especially cannot be handled when it comes to fighting the pandemic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74242	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pera Jojic is partly or entirely right. I've already said that the prosecution and the court, which represent the state in matters of crime, should protect the innocent and punish the guilty. Is that what's going on? If that were the case, Mr. Jojic, our colleagues wouldn't be sitting around strikein' hunger right now. The state is a shield from injustice, and that's how the prosecution has to behave. He's not punishing the court and the prosecution is not only prosecuted because someone committed some crime, he's punishing a new crime. With this punishment and prevention, they act on possible other perpetrators, especially in the election campaign, to avoid violence, etc. That's not what the D.A.'s office does. If what you said is true, that they dropped criminal charges against criminals for a crime is the least violent conduct in the group, then I reserve the right to file criminal charges against that prosecutor who was in charge of breaking the law by the prosecutor. Gentlemen of the D.A., this is about infectious diseases, etc., but it's very turbulence. They don't choose the means to delay elections and come to power with violence. What you're doing, that means you're becoming accomplices in a violent group, covering them with illegal acts, that you're thus approving them. And you, Mr. Prosecutors, no longer need a respirator for infectious disease, you need a soul respirator, along with those who commit violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74244	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, from what I just said, are close to 20 crimes committed in a short time by the same group of people. How is it possible that the DA isn't responding? I have to say that the DOJ has filed criminal charges, because it is criminal acts that are being prosecuted by official duty, among other things, a criminal offence where a sentence of up to 15 years is prescribed, the destruction of the constitutional order. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out some of the problems related to the security of facilities and personalities under the Government of Serbia Regulation No 72, from 8 October 2010 and 64 of 24 July 2013. It is clear in that Regulation which persons must be provided. Among other things, there are persons, above all, the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Defence, Interior Minister, Chief of Staff, BIA Director, VOA Director, VOA Director under two and a police director. So these are the institutions to be provided under this Regulation. However, I have an objection to the conduct of the leadership and the MUP which has not taken the appropriate steps to protect citizens, above all to protect the representatives of the people in the highest home – in the Republic of the National Assembly, to protect MPs and public order. Under this Regulation, they must be graduated, under 1, 2 and 3, in order to know which facilities and which persons they provide. If I were the interior minister that I was happy with, none would be within 100 metres of this assembly, and those who committed crimes with Obradovic were protected by immunity and would all be in prison. What's this about? (President: Thank you, Mr. Jojic. ) It is the destruction of the constitutional order, the eviction of the authorities of the competent and illegal authorities and the state must oppose it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74246	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Mr. Seselj reported after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74247	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Indeed, an unconventional session of the National Assembly. Many talk here about electoral conditions and Serbia's progress towards the EU, and in line with this acceptance of European standards that should be implemented in Serbia in the electoral process, as well as the issue of the media, and the issue of parliamentary representation and, of course, the presentation of all election lists, or candidates in the election on the means of mass generalisation. So, these are some topics, we've heard about REM for a long time, and we saw that REM has been filled in, and then we've fulfilled everything they've asked of us, or the government in Serbia has fulfilled everything they've been asked of it, and these former MEPs, before them, are representatives of the NGO sector from Belgrade. They are obviously the authority to this question, somewhere they may be in the food chain above the government of the Republic of Serbia, they would say, but what is there is, it has already happened. What is the outcome of all these negotiations, all these concessions that the executive authority has made to some who have no intention of going to elections? We have today in front of the National Assembly. We have a scene in front of the National Assembly that neither surrealist nor Nele Kalajić would be ashamed. You strike hunger against each other. You're competing who's the craziest. You are unable to sanction violence and such behaviour and violation of the law, attack against a MP in front of the Serbian Parliament, on the steps of the Assembly, which I certainly condemn, it is inadmissible, and then instead of once seeing you find a solution to the political system in Serbia, that such things don't happen to us, that everything gets normal, you go completely the other way, and you compete with each other who will continue to strike hunger. The opposition authorities strike hunger in Serbia, and we need to talk here about the normality of how we are going to go to the elections now, how we are going to be presented in the media, the political programme, etc., along with all this madness. Is there anyone who thinks it's normal? Why make a political life out of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia such a joke, a show of the highest legislative body, and then it is not clear to some that Serbian citizens do not trust institutions, that they believe that MPs are doing nothing, as the bell reads here, that parliament is a flow water heater. There's a lot of truth in it, but instead of getting rid of it, you're saying we could come up with something even more crazy than that. So it is today, unfortunately, the image and opportunity of the Serbian parliament. The head of the ruling party's parliamentary group, a party that won 48 per cent in the election, its method of political struggle is to compete with some extremists from the opposition who will continue to strike hunger over demands, which, as the police ministry does not enforce the law, as if the police minister is some in Dvori, not SNS, and now he is unhappy. Imagine now what I would say, for example, I am dissatisfied with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, he is extremely democratic and he favors power, not giving enough space to the opposition to oppose the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament, and I strike hunger for it. Or my proposal to supplement the agenda didn't go to the polls, the bell didn't ring and I went on hunger strike. Is that normal behavior? Is that parliamentaryism anywhere in the world? After this, we need to talk about some European standards and compare ourselves with Germany and France and Switzerland, etc., we can hear a lot here, and at the same time we have a duel on the steps of the Assembly that will last longer without food. Let us remind ourselves, when an MP was attacked outside the National Assembly the other day, a scene with more television cameras than people protesting. Five times as many cops as those men who protested and attacked the MP. They're all looking at the side, the camera's looking to catch the best fit, and they're attacking the MP and you think it's normal. Just because you didn't sanction it, you gave such behavior and such an act of legitimacy. And you go further and further into that extremism. Instead of being clearly fenced from all of this, instead of showing your example, you are the authority in Serbia, you say to yourself that you are the best government in history, that this is the golden age, that there are praises from all sides, that Germany is on all possible lists of 10 places behind us, that the Germans are mass taking Serbian passports and that they come here as strong and as good as we are, you engage in such performances in a way that you insult Serbian citizens. All those people, who need to go to the elections on 21 June, vote on their political preferences, whoever they want, you insult them in this way, because you show that you are unable to have a responsible approach to a variety of savagery, nonsense, things like this in front of the National Assembly, but you're getting into it. That's how you support it. Be careful, the head of parliament's strongest party group, which takes 48% in previous elections, its response to the general madness that we have from some parties or parties, mostly marginal phenomena in Serbia, is to strike hunger. I can't still explain how insane this is, even though you all act like it's a natural thing, like it's the right thing to do. Is that possible? Is that what happened anywhere in the world? One party has 48% in the 2016 elections, the other party, now that it's out, there's not even 1%, and you're with them getting into who's going to strike hunger longer. Now it's some of the best government in Serbia. That's not even Monty Peyton could think of, and neither is Top List surrealists, but it's supported. Well done, Martinovic, let him endure as long as possible, so perhaps Mr Orlic will have the opportunity to affirm himself. If he's the head of the parliamentary group, maybe he's elected to strike hunger in the next term, I'm holding his thumbs. You seem to see that as a success in your political careers. I can't explain it any other way. So it's a picture and an opportunity of what you're broadcasting from the House of the National Assembly. How can we in any way talk about normality, reduce the tension in society, free the media, democratisation the debate in the Assembly, etc., when you begin to imitate those who represent the political margin in Serbia and the extremist party? So maybe it could have been explained. You don't want to arrest people who make incidents both in and out of the O.R. You might think that's how you're gonna raise their ratings. By the way, this Bosko Obradovic has done more at Vucic's rating than the entire SNS parliamentary group has done ten times. You may not want to get into it, you think you will raise the price of Bosca Obradovic, and that is perhaps understandable. I think it's wrong, but there's some logic there. What is the logic of this event in front of the congregation? Is it possible that this is your answer to the rampage of some opposition groups? So, they are now not the ones who will threaten and rule in the elections, that it is some political force that has unsightly columns of citizens on the streets, which has won neither I know what results throughout Serbia, so it is four MPs. The ruling coalition has more than 160, the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament has more than 160 MPs, right? About 150. On the other hand, four MPs, and let's see who's better off strikein' hunger. So it's a sad picture unfortunately. You have to set an example to stop such a practice. You should be first, not because you're smarter, better-looking, etc. but because you have the greatest responsibility, because you represent power in Serbia, you should show that it is possible to make a normal dialogue between political parties, that it is possible to reach a consensus on key issues of the electoral process, that it is possible to organise fair elections in Serbia. It's all up to you. It's pointless to talk about all this when there's more to be followed here who's the first one to bite off a bun in front of the Assembly, who's less committed to that goal. So, you are not only not working in the interests of the Serbian citizens, but this is how you humiliate and insult them, to compare yourself with them, and to engage in such nonsense. You are disrupting the brutal reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that is certainly inadmissible. So it's something that needs to change urgently, that approach at all. We had a picture the other day. A column of some people, as many as 300, 400, 500, no matter, surrounds the presidency the other night and slams into pots, protestes quite legitimately, people express dissatisfaction in the way they think it's appropriate, it's all by law, except maybe they didn't call the rally, and we already see that it doesn't have to be respected, it doesn't matter. The president of the Democratic Party at the press conference at the meeting, he said -- We are asking the European Union to postpone the elections in Serbia. We ask the European Union to postpone elections in Serbia? As if the European Union, aroundly, just let me know and say – elections have been postponed, good-bye. We know this is the case in practice, but it is the gazing of the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the mob is attacking the MP on the steps of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly, the second most responsible figure in the Republic of Serbia, tomorrow when the President of the Republic would resign or, God forbid, something would happen to him, the President of the National Assembly would actually be the acting president of the Republic, that is the second person in the country, she holds a press conference after the attack of the People's Parliament and asks the European Union to react. The European Union to protect the MPs of the government from the mob from the steps of the assembly. Is that normal? So let's solve all the problems where real power lies, if that's the European Union. We're gonna save a lot of money, we're gonna save a lot of time, we're gonna disband the Assembly, we don't need elections, we don't need the Assembly, we just have to call ourselves in Brussels, and they tell us, and that's that. So the pro-Western opposition and the pro-Western government are racing to call on the EU to solve their mutual problems. Is this not the degradation of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly and the Constitution and all laws? It can be explained, let him work in opposition whoever he wants, tomorrow the citizens will give an assessment of whether they are satisfied with it, whether they agree with it etc. but it is the responsibility of the authorities to respect both the protection and the constitution and the laws, not to so brutally suspend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws, all the laws of this country and to say - we call on the EU to protect the MPs of the authorities. What does that mean? So stop that farce in front of the assembly. Seriously, try to solve all problems in political life in Serbia. It may not be possible but it should be done, it should be sought to normalize the situation as soon as possible. If we're going to bid on who's going to last longer on the hunger strike, it looks to me like it's going to come back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74248	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74249	I have to say that I'm someone who, first of all, as a believing man, has never supported a hunger strike, ever. With what, of course, I understand when people apply it, when they have a particular political motive. Mr. Seselj himself in The Hague fought for his rights. Mr. Nikolic did it to win the election, because indeed one proud government did not want to hear the voice of the people. However, having a strike to strike, just to make a play like Mr. Obradovic did, is a little lame. I'll remind you, today's hunger strike for Mr. Chevarlic, and that's what I was saying during the first part of the session, has started because of the manipulation of social networks. The man bought that Mr. Vukic made some kind of statement yesterday about KiM, although a statement a year old, ripped out of context, and the man left for no reason, manipulated, I assume he was manipulated, began the hunger strike, and then Bosko Obradovic saw that he might be stealing an idea or whatever he was sitting down and he was strikein' hunger. What I must say is, I deeply agree, this is all of us a single country and we all live in it and we eat the same bread, we breathe the same air, and the least we need is that story of these civil unrest, wars, conflicts. That's not gonna happen in Serbia. It won't and must never happen. A moment ago, seeing the supporters of Mr. Obradovic gathering outside the Serbian Parliament, I came down among them. I talked to them. They insulted me at first, it's not a dispute, but I talked to them. I think you can talk. I'm trying to get in their shoes, see what they want. I think they came to one stage when they realized and when Mr. Obradovic realized that whatever he changed didn't work out and now he's looking for some exit strategy. You know, he remembered it late. A hundred times he's been offered talks, a hundred times he's been offered dialogue, both him and Gilas and all of them. They avoided any kind of dialogue. They said they'd win the boycott. As you can see, as they would say, the king has been brought to the wind. So they didn't make it. They didn't even get a millimeter to move the government, and they brought themselves down, and now they've come to this stage to try to be at peace. I don't mind, I'm always up for talking. And as I came down among them a moment ago to talk, so I'll come down every next time and they can insult me a hundred times, and each and every one of us will be offended. It is our job to endure insults because we are MPs, but we must never allow conflict to take place. I'm always up for it - let the MPs kill themselves in parliament. Let's fight hard here. The people must not fight, not ever. Please, since I see that some of our party's supporters are coming, people, please, make some space, let's try to talk, talk. Let's not make any circus, any conflict. Political games will always be, but let's try to be rational and normal and bring the election process to an end in one of the most normal and human ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74250	Thank you. By amendment, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74251	Thank you, Chairman. I even agree partly with what I heard in the previous two discussions. I know it's bad. I warned it would be bad, not because I'm in cahoots with anyone. I'm closest here, as you know in the Assembly, with Professor Chevarlic. I had no idea he'd dare to take that gesture. I ask him to give up this hunger strike, even though I appreciate his motives and his patriotism and I believe and say, it will be necessary in that fight, precisely because of that goal he took on the strike. His experience, knowledge, intelligence and his goodwill will be needed. I also appeal, of course, to all other MPs who strike hunger to give up, not only because of them and their health, but mainly because of the health of the political and social situation in Serbia, and it is not good. I've been saying that here. It used to be heard, most often it wasn't heard, it used to be ignored, it used to be ridiculed. The situation is politically pathological, and obviously I disagree about who is guilty, or guilty, but it is clear that it is not good, respected colleagues. I agree that this should be a place of dialogue and debate, but unfortunately it wasn't, it wasn't four years ago, mostly in some rare moments. I think the government, the ruling majority, because it's so big, maybe because the opposition was so divided, most often weak, was acting too arrogantly, you acted like everything was in your hands, it seemed so, unfortunately. I remind you of that old wisdom, that no one burned until dawn. In particular, every authority should take care of it and it should be the one who provides the hand first and does gestures of goodwill. Well, if those gestures refuse, it's different. Third, or last. I think you've been putting all your politics down too often to defend the character and actions of Mr. Vukic, and you've been talking about some kind of life threat, some assassinations. You've been referring to some strange characters, anonymous, from social networks. That's how we created a situation where it's normal to talk about it, to anyone. I don't have a problem with Mrs. Gojkovic saying the name of Alexander Vukic and that someone is really ugly about him and his family, but it's also bad enough to talk about all the opposition other leaders, the personalities. That's not good. We normalize one pathology, even by reading such tweets here in the congregation. That you don't go through gentlemen like that story about grandma and wolf or a chateau and a wolf who's been shouting wolf and wolf so many times, that after the wolf showed up, no one believed him. So it's my appeal, perhaps the last of this place to contribute, and above all, the one that's stronger deascalation as much as possible, these political tensions, and they exist and are not farce and are potentially more dangerous even than this epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74252	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic, then Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74253	You know what, when yesterday and the day before, two days in a row, he's throwing a rally if I'm not wrong, Srdjan Nogo, along with Milovan Brkic. And the one who calls for the rally, this Brkic is the author of those famous sentences – killing Alexander Vukic is a natural right, and persecuting his children, and then we will judge both by name and by name three children of Alexander Vukic. Then, Mr. Vukadinovic, you will be at their rally yesterday, at a gathering that such people have organized. I really don't know what anyone expects us to be responding to about respect, normality and dialogue. These people have never been any society to us. Those freak values we've never inherited. And now we need to talk about whether we contributed in any way, so we didn't. It can't be relativated, we said a hundred times today, we'll say anything else if we have to. And you can't even it up. We have never settled here, like these Falangs of Gilas and Obradovic, to prevent you and anyone else from coming to the Assembly. We didn't settle here to push you, or to knock you down, or to kick you, to break your head, and all of this was done to your colleague Marijana Rističević. Love you don't love him, whatever you think, whatever we think about each other, everyone here. These things have only done one thing in this congregation, and not only in this summation, rewind them all you want, but only one example you'll find. That's what the Gilas were doing the other day. Completely in the spirit of those messages sent by their joint political guru, Milovan Brkic. In the spirit of those disgusting attacks, he calls for the children of Alexander Vukic to be wronged only because they are children of Alexander Vukic. It bothers you when we take them for protection, so how can it bother anyone? You know, someone you haven't seen in your life, who you haven't spoken to in a single word, Danilo Vukic, Milica Vukic, Vukan, they haven't had a chance to cause any rage with any of these people. They didn't insult them, they didn't hurt them, and why should they be targeted? Because their father can't stand them. So these things have never been seen in us, nor have these attacks, such as theirs on Marijana Risticevic, nor have they tried to portray it as something normal, as something civilized over which to cross. We've always been against it. That is what we are talking about today, and that is what our colleagues are taking up in front of the home of the National Assembly. Right now, right now, while we're talking here. So we are basically fighting for every family in this country, for all the children of Serbia and for democracy. We defend both the National Assembly and the state and the democratic order. If anyone wants to talk about relations in this country and this hall, I end up with it, let them first respect that fact who was on the side of true democracy, freedom, truth, justice and respect for everyone in this country. He will say honestly then – Alexander Vukic and SNS as much as he loves them or doesn't love them, and whoever was on the opposite side, who was trying to do something wrong with them or at least walk around Belgrade with them, so let everyone see for himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74254	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74255	I may be misread or whatever, but anyway, I want to show you what it looks like when it's being attacked and why it's hard to come to dialogue here, what it looks like to attack Alexander Vukic? Professor Sevarlic, once again, strikes because someone from social networks, on the opposition side, not ours, has manipulated the public by presenting that Aleksandar Vukic has reportedly said Kosovo will be independent, allegedly yesterday. The statement is a year old and has nothing to do with Kosovo's independence. And the man now, completely manipulated strike in front of the parliament building. He's on a hunger strike. On the other hand, you have today's "Today's" attack on Vukic because the angry William Engdal seems to me to be Madeline Albright because he has done a lot to keep Kosovo in Serbia. And you don't know where they're attacking you anymore and why they're attacking you. It's this situation, you know, about what you're asking us to talk about right now. X times they're offered a conversation, how many times we've invited them, come on, people, come on to the dialogue, let's talk about what's going on. Now they remember when they saw they'd lost everything. I don't mind, I say, I just got down between them and I'm always ready to talk and I want to talk, but, you know, it's too late for Marco to come to Kosovo. You've electrified so many of your supporters that before they start talking to you, they insult you first, and I don't know what to expect, how the other side to react. I hope this goes down and I just want to say that Serbia is not a divided country. You have one minority quite aggressive, which is frustrated and which certainly cannot win in elections, which ultimately wanders somewhere because there is no political option where it could channel that discontent. But don't ask most of them to come down, humiliate, and I don't know what to do, because, well, they're unhappy with something. Free people go to the polls, collect signatures, have a list, it's not controversial, talk, talk, enter the dialogue, but don't ask for bread that way, because you'll never really get it in your life. There's just got to be some order. The election comes to power, not by transitional governments, not by nonsense, not by violence, and it is good that perhaps now the people in the Dvori movement realized that what they were doing was completely in vain and completely insane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74256	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Then Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74257	Mr. Orlic, they can beat me up, but they can't raise me, nor will I allow it, especially because it's about fighting a violent group. They haven't changed their attitude, they're trying to minimize the damage. There's nothing spontaneous about it. There is no settlement, Mr. Djukanovic. He didn't buy it. Gilas forged a statement from the President of the Republic. Albright attacked Wolfie. Gilas had no one to raise his Rules of Procedure here, because his MPs boycotted, his MPs, he didn't participate in the elections, the work of the National Assembly. Not this abused, but used, they agreed to raise the Rules of Procedure and thus try to start some other activity after the beating. I'm not afraid of their beatings. In the fight against fascism, there's no better place to get hurt by fascists than the National Assembly. There's no better place. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, which, if dropped the criminal charges, becomes an accomplice. I ask the prosecutor -- God forbid it happens, what if at the entrance to her workplace, when she starts doing her job, those who don't do their job and they get paid, they welcome her, they rip her up, beat her up, and so on, would that be a crime? But God forbid that happens. A message for these thugs -- their leaders, whom they think will lead them into a better future, are not worth their blood, no drop of blood is worth Bosko Ljotic and his helpers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74258	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74259	Now I could use three replicas, but I'll only use two minutes. Mr Djukanovic, we cannot agree, because I think Serbia, unfortunately, is a divided country. I'm assuming it's not two equal halfs, but it's divided. I also allow that your half is bigger right now, but unfortunately, we are divided by a country, and we're not supposed to share about things. Of course, if the media were different in this country, and even if we were, if the opposition were different and better, maybe the relationship would be the other way around. But we're divided. And it's not because someone loves it, that I don't list these names and these leaders you keep calling, but because I don't say much, most of them, but very many Serbian citizens, despite this propaganda torture done here in the Assembly all this time, are not convinced, which is moreover very skeptical of it, according to the course that SNS and your leader lead this country. A lot of people believe you and I don't deny it. I'm just against it and I think it's bad for everything, and it's bad for you, that you think it's some handful, some minority, some fraud, hooligans, etc. As you know, you organized the protests. There's always some patients, lunatics, etc. But your protests had support, it's not at all controversial when you were an opposition. That's how the current opposition has support, not because they love them, but because they don't love you. And you ignore it and keep moving on to the story of some hooligans, some group, some fascist, or I don't know some similar problem elements, which are safe amongst the opposition, but, God, there are in your ranks, not some petty drug dealers, but serious criminals, the entire marijuana plantation of people close to your foreigner. Not to mention the various affairs that were all somehow suppressed and pushed into the third plan because of this state of emergency and this epidemic. So better when you're strong, you need to reach out and look for a compromise, and offer a compromise than when the situation reverses. And I think every smart government will use it to do that. Remember what I said about grandma and wolf. When you shout too often - wolf, murder, assassination, it's as if you're calling for an accident, not to fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74260	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74261	You know, if we're talking about crime, one opposition leader sat directly next to a man who sat 60 kilos of marijuana, caught with 60 kilos of marijuana. He was sitting in Dragan Gilas next to that man, it was his activist, I think he's from Kursumlia. It's simple. You know, we're talking crime. Well, those people at least have the right to tell us something somewhere. We're not shared company. I want to understand what that group of people, or minority, want. The problem is that people who are unhappy, and there's an objectively unsatisfactory world here, there's nowhere to channel their dissatisfaction, because there's no adequate political option on the other hand. These people who represent them, or who are trying to present them, whenever we ask them -- which you're unhappy with, bring some proposal, here, we had at the Faculty of Political Sciences that many conversations, they never brought anything except what they said -- this is dictatorship, this is dictatorship, the Wolf is dictator, the Wolf is this, the Wolf is that. But that's pointless. Then what are you talking to them about and talking? I understand their political action. They felt that, apparently by popular rebellion, revolution, I don't know what, they would try to raise the people. When they saw that it had failed, they now come to the tabernacle of the congregation and offer some sort of agreement. I don't just know what to agree on. Whatever we tried to do with them, they didn't want to make a deal, they thought the people would take us down on the street. Now we've come to the stage that they're having their frustration with people who might be supporting them somewhere trying maybe in some violent way to do it. Well, after all, if we're such dictators, why are you offering us transitional governments? The transitional government is otherwise formed when it is a revolutionary period. Guys, there's nothing here. We have a stable majority here, we have a people who vote, what a black transitional government. But here you have people who insist on just trying to get their asses in the chairs somehow, even without a choice. Well, that's what we won't allow. And we're always ready, as far as the election process is concerned. Well, we're the only ones who've brought solutions there, that'll even get this NGO to confirm you. We were the only ones who offered solutions, both on the electoral lists and on the election process, absolutely about everything. We offered everything. We have never heard from the other side of which they are particularly dissatisfied and what they would do to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74262	Comrade Vukadinovic, you have no right to a replica. counterpart Djukanovic talked about leaders of political parties and politicians who had not been to negotiations in inter-party dialogue. As far as I know, you were. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74263	Today we heard, among other things, Professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic's MP that these amendments and additions of these laws should be accepted, because they are brought into abnormal conditions, so I guess today when the conditions are adopted, the conditions will be normal. Well, it won't be normal, because for years the laws that have been adopted here, in the field, are not being implemented, or are being implemented selectively. Gentlemen of the People, we would be here today in normal terms if you had applied the law when the different beatings entered the RTS building, when various people came here in front of the Assembly and attacked and attacked physically on our colleague. They tried the radicals once, but they were wrong, they didn't go well, so when they saw us, they ran off those stairs. And then we have a complete paradox and laughter, to pay attention to those who are sitting on the stairs today. Instead of asking yourself how you violated your people's right, because you didn't even want to put on the agenda to discuss the abolition of the Law on Public Executors, which was filed by the SRS, which was signed by more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why conditions aren't normal. But, on the other hand, I'm calling you again, and the other day I said in this same room -- it was happening, and we've been going through a difficult period, so let's once, at least at the end of this call, listen to the SRS parliamentary group. Let's respect the heroes, honor the people who at this time of the pandemic gave their lives for their people, for their country. Come on, here, as one of the good examples, let's do it and it would be most appropriate for the Nis Clinical Center to name the surgeon Miodrag Lazic and not to forget all the other heroes, because we will need heroes if this is how it continues in this country to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74264	Right on line, MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74265	Dear colleagues and colleagues, how do you escape from not being a normal situation? If it were a normal situation and a colleague and everyone before him would talk about what's in the amendments. As I recall, my colleague Mircic left with this group of amendments talking about the amount of fine to be paid, and he said nicely that the paying power of the citizens would not allow it. Then everyone starts talking about something that has nothing to do with this amendment. That's what my colleague who called me, Miljan, says I said it wasn't a normal situation. Thank God it's not a normal situation. But if we're going to be honest and if we're going to get past all this, it would be good to read and listen to one of our greats who had a lot of wise words and a saying to characterize a particular situation. That's what Ducic said – it's a big accident when a man doesn't know what he wants, and the real disaster is when he doesn't know what he can do. Don't do what you won't and don't do what you can't do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74266	Thank you. You don't have the right to a replica, pal. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Sunday, 10 May 2020, starting at 17 hours and 30 minutes, as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74267	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Members of the Parliament, please insert your identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, and I urge you not to play with cards to determine the correct quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 129, against – eight, with abstention – two, five MPs did not vote. I find the bill accepted, in principle. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Alexander Seselj to Article 1. It concludes the vote: for – 12, against – two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Gjorge Vukadinovic to Article 1. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put Gordana Komic's amendment to article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 1. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments of the Vojvodjanski front Group, Serbia 21 on Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Marjan Risticevic's amendment to article 1. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I put the Verice Radete amendment to Article 2 to vote. Finalising vote: for – 10 MPs. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreto Periæ to Article 3. It concludes the vote: for nine, against one, none, abstentioned, one. I would like to vote on Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 3. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I am closing the vote: for – 130, against – 14 abstentions – there is no. I find that it has been decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the law less than eight days from its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – 12 abstentions – two. I find that the Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on local elections, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – no one with abstention – two. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of Natasha Jovanovic to Article 1. Finalising vote: for - ten MPs. I put Gordana Komic's amendment to article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Marijan Risticivić to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote amendments of the Vojvodjanski front Group, Serbia 21, on Article 1. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I would like to vote on Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 1. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to Article 2 to vote. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I would like to vote on Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 2. Finalizing vote: for -9. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put the draft law amending the Law on Local Elections, in general. Finalising vote: for – 143 against – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Local Elections. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – two. I find the bill accepted in principle. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 1. Finalising vote: for – 13. I would like to vote on the amendments of Marijan Risticevic to Article 2. Finalising vote: in – four. I am voting on the amendments of Miljan Damjanovic to Article 2. I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – one. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 128, v – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – one. I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases has been adopted. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic of Election Commission, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – two. I agree that we have adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-10-0.u74268	On the occasion of the apportionment of MPs to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to declare the National Assembly in the day of the vote. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, at a session on 8 May 2020, at 11.00 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 92. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has found that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic, at a session on 10 May 2020, at 13 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no, of a total of 131. I find that the National Assembly has found that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020.
