ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68676	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68677	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to ask a question that I have already asked, but only to another ministry. I was asking this question to the Ministry of Traffic and yesterday I got the answer that they were not in charge of this issue. Now I ask the question to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and it concerns imports of secondhand cars. They reiterate the question I asked the Ministry of Transport, in which I said that according to a report on the state of the environment for 2018, air pollution is one of the key problems affecting the health of the population in Serbia, and the causes are pollution stemming from traffic and energy facilities. These days we are just witnessing these problems, which for days already because of climate conditions, or weather conditions, have increased even more. Namely, the Regulation on the division of motor vehicles and their technical regularity provides for stricter control of the emissions of harmful gases, as of 1 July 2021, and each fourth consumer imported into Serbia has a Euro 3 engine. Besides, we have older vehicles, already registered, which will be a problem when the exhaust criteria are tightened. I'd like to ask my colleagues to be a little quiet, so I'll talk to you. Of course, nobody cares. The average age of passenger cars in Serbia is over 18 years, and there are older freighters and buses, which are also a problem, especially the problem of public transport vehicles, while, for example, the situation in agriculture, when it comes to tractors, is about 30 years old. My question is to the Minister of Trade -- how many vehicles with Euro 3 engines have been imported so far? Are there or are quotas being planned for the import of used goods, because it threatens to turn into a dump of used cars, primarily from Western countries? Just for this year, the information they're dealing with is that there's about 150,000 vehicles imported. Will there also be changes to the Government's regulation on the import of motor vehicles because it is known that the Government is adopting this regulation? What about tractors that are over 30 years old and that must be a bad condition, as far as exhaust gasses are concerned? Namely, I'll remind you that there are two regulations from the two ministries. The Regulation on the division of motor vehicles and connections and technical conditions for road transport vehicles, carried out by the Minister responsible for traffic operations, requires that the composition of the exhaust gasses of motor vehicles, except for species such as tractors and L and C vehicles, shall comply with the prescribed standards. The vehicle technical inspection Regulation, which brings the interior minister, stipulates that the composition of exhaust gases does not affect the assessment of the technical correctness of the vehicle three years from the date of application of this Regulation, i.e. from July 5, 2021, which means that by 2024 we will be forced to suffer this pollution in which we are now. I ask the question of the Minister of the Interior - when will he change the rule I spoke of and when will the rules adopted by the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior be in line with the environmental requirements? This is just proof that there is no inter-resorship co-operation, that criteria, i.e. the conditions prescribed by the environmental protection area in other sectors are less or less respected and that it is necessary for this cooperation to be established maximum. The best example, perhaps, that I would like to quote is just one brochure that is now being advertised in the city of Belgrade about what all the authorities in Belgrade have done. Public transport says the city of Belgrade is getting 100 joint diesel buses. In the era when diesel vehicles are banned from entry into cities in western countries, and when it comes to completely removing diesel vehicles, public transport will be on diesel fuel for the most part in Belgrade. This means that there is either one absolute ignorance, or there is complete ignoring of environmental requirements, and above all concerns about the health of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68678	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68679	Thank you. If we weren't always here to criticise, which, in the end, the work of the opposition is, I wanted to commend Mr. Marinovic's reaction, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, on the initiative he took on this, I would say, mass reactions to the public and scandalisation of the public for publishing details from the testimony of a suspected mass rapist and returner. These morbid details from his alleged or actual testimony came to the media and measures were taken. The culture ministry also reacted to certain media. But what's particularly significant and commendable is one line of what I've been saying here and in public, that finally an investigation has been launched against those sources of unknowns, but I'm not going to hope to remain unknown, from the prosecution or the judiciary, which allow that information to leak. Our anger, the anger of the public, and the condemnation, the occasional condemnation and reaction of the authorities who are usually rare and usually absent, tend to go to the media, with or without quotes, to the media who have published such information. But, almost never, not only does the hand of justice, but not even the light, not even the public reflector falls on those who actually made such a leak, which is a mild word, in fact a scandalous crime that the details of the investigation are simply copied, come into the hands of those who are not authorized and then end up in the media. So, the Information Commissioner's intervention is for every commendation and proof that we haven't made much of a mistake or maybe we've made no mistake at all that we haven't been or haven't been against his choice. Of course, there's a lot of work here, but this is one small thing worth commending in activities, or in his engagement in this case. I would like him to be so up-to-date, and not only him, but also these other institutions that are in charge, to be so up-to-date and when the sources that the girls are more politically delicate and not that leak when it comes to political opponents or some other more important or equally sensitive investigations. What's my first question, this was more commendable, is about what my colleague just said, and it was about this drama that was created in public, not without a basis, about air pollution in the last days and weeks and the controversy that was created about who was to blame for this pollution. I think the authorities, when they came in at all, were quite tending to try to transfer responsibility to individual consumers, or individual beds, those who use solid fuel for heating and cars with inadequate engine standards. I think that it has tended to try, and in part it has succeeded, to hide from the public the fact that absolutely the greatest source of pollution is actually great consumers, and above all heat and especially thermoelectric plants that pollute dozens of times, there are estimates of different, more than would be allowed, and even in competition with other similar facilities, or similar power plants in other countries. So, I ask the Ministry of Ecology, preferably, for more up-to-date information on the share of the pollution of individual consumers in Serbia. The last, most important and most powerful, is yesterday's information, as of last night, Donald Trump's reaction to the concluded agreement on the establishment of an aircraft line between Belgrade and Pristina. That was almost covered up with us in our public, only yesterday they called. A question for the Ministry of Transport and for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – does the agreement establishing an airline between Belgrade and Pristina have elements that affect the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia? Why has Serbia's public not been informed, and the President of the United States is reporting, a national security adviser attends, NATO Secretary-General welcomes the decision and the agreement, which is supposed to be a letter of intent, and the Serbian public knows nothing about it? So, a question for the Department of Traffic and the Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68680	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68681	Thank you, Chairman. In front of the SMS group, we will ask the question of the prime minister and the finance minister, who was otherwise asked by the Insider portal, and since they did not get the answer, and we should receive it in writing under the Law on the National Assembly, we will forward the answer to them. The question is – why does the state continue to subsidise "Er Serbia"? The state of Serbia owns 51% in Er Serbia, while a partner from the United Arab Emirates "Etihad" is 49% owner. Under the framework contract concluded in August 2013, the State finally assumed on 31 December 2013 all the unsettled commitments of Jat Erveiz and took the obligation to invest the three-year-old. The deadline, therefore, expired on 31.12.2016, however, the Annual Business Report "Er Serbia" shows that the state of Serbia directly paid direct state aid to "Er Serbia" in 2017 and 2018 about 2.5 billion euros annually. So that's about 42m euros based on this direct payment. The 2019 budget further states that subsidies for private enterprises approved under the government's special act provide for 14.7 billion dinars for certain companies, including "Er Serbia", although it is not explicitly stated on what basis and how much money is foreseen for state aid "Er Serbia". Otherwise, "Er Serbia" has already been subject to application by European competitors for unfair competition because of the state aid it receives, so the issue of state aid is a sensitive issue from the cornering of competition, and also to curb corruption. Therefore, it is obvious that something is wrong with the business model "Er Serbia", because few citizens who can afford to travel by plane, so they use planes and travel and services "Er Serbia" can notice that from the entry "Ethicada" in 2013 to today, this partnership with the national airline and with the state of Serbia the price of the service "Er Serbia" is either not changing or growing, and their quality obviously declines. So, the model is obviously unprofitable, unless "Er Serbia" on its balance sheet registers revenues from state aid, which is actually the help of all citizens. Now, if all citizens will fund Er Serbia, then they should really see if such a business model fits all citizens and the needs of all citizens and if all citizens really need to finance their tax dinars the work of a business model of a national airline. I do not want to say here that Serbia does not need a national airline, it must be subject to an obvious new analysis, because after six-seven years of business it is evident that without state aid "Er Serbia" cannot make profit, that its service prices are growing and that its quality is continuously falling. President Vucic answered the issue of "Insider" regarding the profitability of the direct line for New York City that it takes four to five years for the profitability of such a line, hence the direct flight of Belgrade-New York. For that kind of work it is a very long period of waiting to show whether such a business venture is profitable or not. So, for four to five years, it's a period when you expect to see profitability, let's say, start-ups in the financial services sector, say banks. So that's some period during which investors expect the company to go to the green branch. This is about one plane after all. So obviously it's too long. I will remind citizens that the Insider portal has had one extensive survey of the Er Serbia business, where it has been established, let's say, that one non-resonal, non-economic, and even a risky transition from Boing to Erbas's planes, where there was no time for pilots to get dressed, and then the pilots were rented, and there was a documented multiple overpayment of aircraft rentals per flight hour. So these are all some things that obviously have a strong impact on the profitability of this company's work, but there's no consequence of these findings. So we don't particularly know what the effect of these subsidies is on the declared incentive to brand Serbia and the general economic growth and development of tourism. So, it's very immeasurable, so we ask the Prime Minister and the finance minister to give us in writing a number of indicators of the effect of these granting tax dinars to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68682	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, who are concerned about the airline between Pristina and Belgrade, I could ask – when will the line be open between Novi Sad and Belgrade, that Djordje Vukadinovic does not bother to travel from Novi Sad on these difficult times? Of course, if he's traveling. 2/3 MZ/MT So my question concerns Judge Majic. I ask the Ministry of Justice, which should be asked by the President of the Court of Appeals – is Judge Majic asking for approval before he performs on political shows, and that is, in the political broadcasts involved, so I will set an example of the Olympic programme, whether he asks for the approval of the elders, or the President of the Court, or does he do so on his own? Is the consent of the elders, or the President of the Court, necessary before you go as a judge to an informative political show, especially this guy? Is it necessary to allow it or can judges participate in political shows and do our job to whom? In this regard, I ask the High Council of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice when will Miodrag Majic resolve the judicial functions? That's what happens when there's a violation of the law by the judge. To all my colleagues, it is known that Judge Majic has annulled the Pančeva Court verdict, which has been sentenced to the 13-year-old girl's promise of 13 years old, was sentenced to five years in prison, and Judge Majic has been breaking the laws by violating the rights of children, a monstrous violation of the laws, and wrote that a 26-year-old person did not know that it was forbidden to promise a 13-year-old girl. This was an unequivocal violation of the law by the judge, and so I ask when will the High Council of the Judiciary be resolved by Judge Majic? His second violation of the law was the trial of a "gnome group", where he annulled years-long sentences of 10, 11, a year in prison for 11 Albanian terrorists, all 100 and a few years in prison. As judge of the Court of Appeals, he felt that Albanian terrorists were not guilty and freed them from responsibilities, and it was a "gnjilan group" that brutally killed about 80 Serbs and tortured about 250. I am not only saying that the verdict was illegal, but the Supreme Court of Cassation for the protection of the legality requested by the prosecutor in the case of the "Gnjilan group", the Supreme Cassation Court concluded that there was a violation of the law by Judge Majic and Hadjiomerovic, and that the verdict was illegal, and that it was to the detriment of the damaged, and for the benefit of the accused. Because she was in favour of the defendants there was no retrial, Albanian terrorists were released. Today, when those who ask about Oliver Ivanovic's murder should know that political members of the other Serbia are releasing 11 Albanian terrorists, and earlier in 2001 and 2002, they released 108 convicted Albanian terrorists and probably one of them is behind the murder of Oliver Ivanovic, who these "other Serbs" are trying to pin down authorities in the Republic of Serbia. That is why my question is clear and loud – when will the High Judiciary Council initiate proceedings for the resolution of the Majic judge, who has broken the law at least twice, and when does the judge break the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68684	Thank you. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has already warned of the negative consequences of Serbia's inclusion in the so-called. "mini Schengen" or the Balkan Union. We believe that this type of association and integration is not in Serbia's national interest, but rather in Serbia, so that it may get some points from the EU or one part of the international community agree to such a thing. So, we didn't have any plan on it, there were no announcements, there was no discussion in the Assembly, but as thunder from the clear sky, the revelation began that our greatest chance of success in the Union with Northern Macedonia and Albania. We have warned of something that we can see from this news that was present yesterday, so that Serbia will explicitly recognise Kosovo's independence, since these are attitudes and some European diplomats, as well as official authorities in Macedonia and Albania. I will remind you both Albania and Macedonia have recognised Kosovo's independence, and now we see that we have everything in this and that we will have a direct airline between Belgrade and Pristina. So I would ask the government of the Republic of Serbia -- how did they identify it as the interest of Serbian citizens, and first of all, announce that there will be no further dialogue on Kosovo's status, or on KIM with representatives of Kosovo Albanians, until they cancel 100% fees on goods from central Serbia or BiH? That attitude of the Republic of Serbia seems to be forgotten. We will not continue dialogue until they cancel the fees, but we will meet everything they ask of us, including the establishment of a direct Bograd-Pristina airline. We have already said that for the Serbian people it is not in the best interest of association in so-called. "Mini Shengen", already, corresponds exclusively to Albania. It cannot be our chance for some major export or market for some of our companies in Albania, nor can it be a desirable tourist destination for citizens of Serbia, not because we think for ourselves because of Albania, but because these are the general views of Serbian citizens, and also Albania's policy is not to accept anything from Serbia. We will see a moment at the same table as Macedonia, Albania and Serbia will sit at the so-called Kosovo Republic. represented by Aljbin Kurti, not Marko Djuric or someone from the government of the Republic of Serbia. So we think that this is an external political failure that we should leave, that we are not further deepening in this and that we stop the practice of meeting everything we are asked to do when it comes to co-operation with the EU, we already know that there is nothing from the EU, that the Balksa Union or the "little Schengen" is our only perspective, the prospect of being a periphery of the EU. Do we think that's good for us? We don't think it is, and it needs to be discussed as soon as possible. On the other hand, a month has passed since the anti-civilisation and anti-constitutional law on freedom of religion adopted in Montenegro's parliament in the middle of the night, with the arrest of the group, primarily the Serbian MPs of the opposition in the Montenegrin parliament, with major protests and violence where they even physically rebelled at some bishops of the SPC, said the number of citizens of Montenegro and Serbia's nationality but also other protests in Montenegro over this, not only because of attacks on Serbia's national identity and attempts to kidnap the SPC, but also because of property rights, because of the lack of property, because of the secularity of the state, states and churches and everything else that is now current in Montenegro, the government of the Republic of Serbia should initiate an emergency session of the UN Security Council and in any way to protect the Serbs, the Serbian people and SPC in Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68686	The word has a national emissary, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68687	I thank the president. Today I would ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, starting with the fact that Serbia has achieved significant economic growth over the past few years, which is seen through a large inflow of investments, increased budget revenues and improved citizens' standards, I believe that in the context of further developmental policies, and in particular population policies, there is now room for us to devote ourselves to a particular group of our citizens, which are young professionals and young couples. The data suggests that young people get married later on, and later on they form a family and get their first child, which is why there are more reasons, but certainly employment and housing are the two most present. In this context, the government, the resorient ministries and the non-portfella ministers in charge of population policy are taking a number of proactive measures, which already produce significant results, however, is still the biggest problem for young unresolved, difficult-to-solve housing issues in which the government, i.e. the resolution ministries, must be involved in order to stop the inflow of personnel and the departure of young people from the country. 4/1 DG/VK 10.45 – 10.55 In this regard, I would like to ask the Government if it is planned to adopt a programme document and law that would allow young married couples and young professionals to resolve the housing issue, as it is done for members of the defence forces of the military and the population who are allowed to resolve their housing issue under more favourable conditions, which, of course, we support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68688	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68689	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, tomorrow, January 22nd, is the 27th anniversary of one of the greatest crimes against the Serbian people, so the massacre in Maslenica, known as the massacre in the Ravni Kotari in northern Dalmatia, then the Republic of Serbia. It is the second aggression of the Croatian army. So, the first one was an attack on the Miljevaci plateau a few months before that. This was the second aggression against part of the then-Serbian Krajina, which was a protected UN area, so under the protection of Uprenophora. On 22 January 1993, the Croatian military violated the truce, as well as many times during the war, which was reached between the governments of Croatia and Republika Srpska, as well as the demarcation line established by Uzrenofor, based on the 1992 Vens plan. In this aggression, which lasted until the end of 1993, 348 Serb soldiers and civilians, including 35 women and children, died as three children after 12 years. As a direct consequence of this aggression, 165 civilians were killed, so the total number of victims was 513. A total of about 10,000 Serbs were exiled from this area, so from the Ravni Kotar area, where Serbs have been an absolute majority for centuries. The villages of Smoković, Kasic and Islam of Greece, as well as several mixed villages of Murvica, Zrna, Zemunik, Poljica and Islam Latin. The Serbs are from these sub-lethal villages, which the Croatian forces did not kill on the spot, then taken to prisons and camps in Zadar and Split, by the evil-known camp "Lora", where they were then tortured and rarely killed. Of course, all the property of Serbs in these villages was burned and destroyed, and suffered a large number of cultural monuments, churches and cemeterys, such as Dvori or Serdar Stojan Jankovic from the Church of St. George in Islam, Greece, where the writer Vladan Right was buried, which was erected in 1675. Then, St. George's Church in Smokovic, 1567 and St. Elijah's Church in Kasic. The biggest crime, however, took place on January 22nd in the large-bit mountain line of Mali Alan. To make the irony bigger, close to Uprenofor's observation post on Velebit, when Croatian special forces attacked a small group of Serbian military members of the Krajina. In fact, a group of 30 Serb soldiers ambushed with two trucks. Eight of them managed to escape and survive, the other 22, including one nurse, were captured, beastly tortured, and the most playful way to kill her. I note, close to base Uprenophora. After ten days, when the bodies of the dead were transported to Grazac, it was seen that these people were massacred to unrecognizableness. The victims were completely mutilated, and the son of one of the fathers massacred recognized only by the belt. That is why this crime is especially highlighted by brutality and cruelty. The responsibility for this attack is borne by Croatian Generals Janko Bobetko, Ante Gotovina, Ante Rosso, Mirko Norac, Mladen Markac, as well as Albanian Agim Ceku, who was then in the Croatian Army chief of artillery of the Velebit sector, but also Franjo Tudjman, who granted approval for this attack. To date, no one has been responsible for the crimes committed against Serbs in this action, either in front of domestic or international courts. With this in mind, Madam Chairman, I am asking the Foreign Ministry if all available measures have been taken so far in meeting with Croatian officials and in order to process those responsible for this crime? Until this happens, until Croatia faces its past, until it assumes responsibility, until it ceases to rehabilitate the constitution and ceases daily harassment and persecution and torture of the basic human rights of Serbs, Croatia cannot plead to become a democratic and European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68690	Thank you. I would like to inform you that today she was prevented from attending the session of Ambassador Stefan Miladanovic. We're continuing our work. We move on to a common principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 9, 10 and 11 of the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 180(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint, principled and uniform search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, the Proposal for a Law on Archival Construction and Archival Action and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the handover of the Petersburg Journal of the Republic of Serbia and pictures of Nikola Konstantinovich Rerich to the Russian Federation. Does Minister Vukosavljevic, the speaker's representative, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68691	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'd only say introductory views when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. The Culture Act has been in force since September 2009, and started in March 2010. Its adoption then created preconditions for the adoption of other laws that detailed certain areas of culture, which had to comply with the principles set out in the Culture Act. The first amendments to the Culture Act were made in 2016. As for the amendment and addition of the Culture Act that lies ahead of you, I would like to set aside the following basics briefly. The Law on Culture does not specify the definition of culture and, accordingly, the frameworks governing the regulation of this act are established by defining the content of culture, i.e. in the form of a list of areas of culture within which those cultural activities are carried out. In this sense, there is a strong interest in cultural subjects that precisely in this part of the law determines the action that all together represents the subject of regulation of this law, and that, accordingly, the particular emphasis is placed on which of them have the character of artistic activity. This, for example, adds in particular to the proposal for this law the work of artistic photography, and in addition, given the impact of technological development in the fields of culture and the use of information and communication technology in cultural work. Furthermore, our country is famous for numerous cultural events and festivals held in all parts of Serbia and are already a recognizable brand that exceeds the importance of culture and enters the domain of other social areas, such as tourism, economy, etc. Therefore, the need for a single act, such as the Law on Culture, to establish a legal basis for further systematic regulation of this matter, is indicated to specify precisely the criteria on which to assess the importance of these events at the central and local level. Furthermore, given that a new Law on General Administrative Procedure was introduced in the meantime, there was a need to bring the Culture Act into line with this law. Furthermore, the adoption of the Law on Culture in 2009 for the first time introduced the practice of selecting the directors of cultural institutions in public competitions. With the proposed amendments and additions, we introduce new restrictions that will lead to the end of the abuse of the use of the institution of the director's office and, accordingly, to the avoidance of public competitions for their election. We also specify the conditions for selecting the directors of cultural institutions and thus overcome the problems that have been shown in practice. Just a few more things, as a general explanation of the meaning and reason for these changes and additions. Since the artistic game is one of the most difficult professions that carries with it the great material investment of the artist himself, education, equipment, health care, treatment and the like, and the risk of injuries and professional illnesses, it is necessary to regulate the specificity of their position legally. This law for the first time creates conditions for systematic regulation of the specificity of this profession. Furthermore, given the legal obligation to keep registers of representative associations and individuals self-activating cultural activities, these changes and additions increase their availability to interested persons, in line with new technological opportunities, related to a very current and increasingly applicable eGovernment project. Just two more basic things. Part of the Culture Act, which regulates financial procedures, needs to be amended, so that funding and co-financing procedures for programmes and projects in culture, as well as institutions established by the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province and local self-government units, will be specified and harmonised with other system laws in the area of finance, which, above all, refers to clearer determination of the obligations of founders and institutions themselves in this procedure. Finally, in order to achieve its basic role as regards the establishment of a legal basis for full and effective regulation in the field of culture, we introduce the law and inspection supervision, as this is the most important measure of the Ministry of Security for the full application of this law throughout the country. These are, therefore, general principles, which concern the motives and purpose of these changes and additions, and I believe that if the need arises during the debate, we will be able to answer some more questions or further explain some of the finesse of these proposed changes and additions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68692	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the presidents, i.e. authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Who wants to talk first? The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68693	I would like to refer to the law on archival construction and archives. That would be kind of my review. The archival structure as a cultural good has the first-class importance of bearing authentic witness to the work of its creators, state bodies, business and cultural entities, celebrities, as well as political, socio-economic and cultural historical opportunities. I want to look back, first of all, on the archives in Vojvodina. In the territory of the AP Vojvodina is the oldest Archive of Vojvodina, which was founded in 1926 and was the second institution of that kind, next to the state archive in Belgrade, today's Serbian Archives. It was founded to collect the archival construction of former counties from today's Vojvodina, which is bačko-bodroška, torontal and Tamiski, dating from the end of the 17th century to 1918. Today, the Vojvodina Archives preserves about 9,000 long meters of archival construction, which makes up the construction of former states that existed on the territory of today's Vojvodina, it was the Habsburg monarchy, then the Austro-Hungarian, then the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, and eventually Yugoslavia, and the institution of the authorities from World War II to this day. In addition to the Vojvodina Archives, the protection of the archival building in Vojvodina is carried out by archives in Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica, Zrenjanin, Pancheva, Subotics, Sombor, Kickindi, Senti and the White Church. The total amount of archive structure stored in these archives is over 50,000 long meters. The building dates back to the end and mid-19th century and is written in the languages of the administration, Latin, German, Hungarian and Serbian. The law, which is under discussion today, has been pending since 1994, when the Cultural Goods Act was passed. Unlike the protection of other types of cultural goods, the protection of archival construction must be accompanied by socio-political change. For this reason, from 1994 to today, as a result of privatisation and, unfortunately, events from the 1990s, the collapse of economic operators, the irrevocably missing archival structure was created in the socialist period. The challenges of e-business and digitalisation in culture did not have insistence in the existing law, although it was an obligation for the state to agree with the European legal framework on the protection of archival construction. The delay in adopting this law has accumulated even more problems for which the bill, in our opinion, does not offer solutions. It is primarily meant to provide space for the accommodation of an archival building, which is one of the burning problems. The position of the Vojvodina Archives, as the parent archive for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, dates from the first laws to regulate the position of archives and protection of archive buildings. The role and importance of the Vojvodina Archive is reflected in the improvement of professional work, the monitoring of the state of archive activity and institutions in Vojvodina, the organisation of expert examinations for employees and archives in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and the development of publishing activity. Funding by the circuit community of culture and former SIZs for the culture of Vojvodina, the Vojvodina Archives provided accommodation in the adapted prison building, where it is today. A study of archival construction was carried out in archives abroad in the 1970s and 1980s, in Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Russia and Romania. The archive has regularly microfilmed the structure it guards, as well as the structure that is stored in other archives, which refers to the history of Vojvodina. The Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, through the competent authority for cultural affairs, has assumed the founding rights and obligations of the Vojvodina Archives, established to collect and preserve the archive construction and registration material of the authorities and organisations, i.e. the institution of the AP Vojvodina since 2002, following the entry into force of the Law establishing certain competences of the AP Vojvodina. Since then, it has been constantly seeking to improve the working conditions of this institution, to serve all legal obligations, to train employees and to increase the number of employees in line with the needs of the institution's development, to increase resources for the implementation of the institution's programme, to improve work by improving the conditions for the work of employees and to obtain new equipment and to ensure the extension of interinstitutional co-operation of the Vojvodina Archive with related institutions in the country and in the region. Vojvodine's archive continues to carry out expert supervision of the network of public archives in the AP, i.e. nine city and community archives. Professional supervision is regularly reported in the Serbian Archives as a central archival institution and the Regional Secretariat for Culture, Public Information and Relations with Religious Communities, and these reports are publicly presented to all archives in the AP Vojvodina, the media and delivered to units of local self-government as founders of local archives. Since 2003, the Office of Vojvodina has organized and conducted expert examinations for employees in the archives of the AP Vojvodina. The Regional Secretariat of Culture supported the Office of Vojvodina's initiative to form a conservation and restoration laboratory, which officially started in 2016, and this is especially important because it is next to a laboratory owned by the Library of the Serbian and Vojvodina Museum and the only laboratory that can preserve and restore cultural goods on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The AP Vojvodina's funds provided an adaptation of the former barracks in Senta for the purposes of housing the historical archive of Sainta. The Autonomous Province of Vojvodina helped with the financial resources to train the business space of the archives of the White Church, Kickinda and Sombor for the needs of archival work. What is the problem with this law, according to the provisions of this law, is the jurisdiction of the Republic, i.e. these provisions of the law did not respect the powers of the AP Vojvodina in the field of culture, except for the founding rights under the Duke's archive, i.e. The Duke's archives remain in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. All the other archives have gone according to the proposal of this law to the jurisdiction of the Republic. The provisions of the bill provide for the founding rights of archives to be exercised by the Republic and we ask the question – is this kind of centralisation adequate to meet the requirements set by the law on digitisation and microfilming? Is there a plan for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to save and train employees to do these jobs, since a 10-year deadline has been set for microfilming the entire archive building? The archives were obliged to establish priorities for digitization. I would especially like to point out and support the amendment submitted by my colleague, Zarko Micin, when it comes to the archives of the city of Novi Sad, because this archive is particularly important for the city itself, because it covers construction from 1748 to 2016. This archive contains documents, i.e. documents on the development of the city and the environment, as well as individual bodies and organisations, legal and physical persons. The town of Novi Sad has just, recognising this importance, invested this need along with the Krajina in building a building, the most modern building for the accommodation of an archival building. Unfortunately, this law now deprives these founding rights and all goes into the hands of the Republic, as if you simply don't have people in the bar who will take care of that building and that material that collects on the territory of that city, that municipality. The law also contains a discriminatory provision, as it provides, for example, that doctors of historical sciences do not have to pass a professional exam, and an analysis of doctoral studies of history at universities in Serbia at the lower levels of studies so far, as well as a programme so far to pass a professional exam has concluded that they do not match. I want to ask the question – why is it shyly suggested in the transitional provisions that privatised enterprises can contain archival construction if they need it for a year, or until the time when the archives are able to take it? Does this mean that we can expect the archives to take over the archival structure of NIS, the cement factory Beocin, Belgrade Airport and other privatised enterprises, and until the moment of privatisation, is the general interest of the Republic of Serbia to take over state and social property immediately? So, what could be subdued, perhaps this language is most unreasonable, or incomprehensible, but the intensity of the whole law that everything is centralized again by the model of many other areas is not good and we simply think that something on this plan has to change, that how it can now be unacceptable, especially since in the territory of the AP Vojvodina you have national minorities, so we need to provide opportunities for national communities to take care of their archives, if they can in particular provide and the means for these archives to be established, or to be maintained and that this building that records the existence of some national community in some place, in some territory to preserve it, not to simply lose it, not to worry about it, because it is necessary to leave a trail behind. Unfortunately, the territory of Vojvodina and in general the whole of Serbia are constantly recording the decline in population. I'm afraid if we continue to worry about our archival structure as well as our history that we leave behind, we'll be in a situation where we don't even have a written lead left behind. That's why I don't think it's a good centralisation, that it's not good to take away founding rights and at all the possibility of taking care of archives only in the hands of the Republic, especially when it comes to the grant of funds, donations and so forth. As far as I can see, according to the law, the approvals, or consent to some of these donations and investments, will go first and foremost into the hands of the Republic and then decide whether any archive may invest in some of its activities and the renewal of its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68694	The word has a minister, Mr. Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68695	Thank you. We've now moved on to the second point. First I gave the opening remarks on amendments to the Law on Culture, but I did not give the opening remarks on the Law on Archives, and you immediately moved to the Law on Archives. (President: Mr. Minister, the debate on all points of the agenda has been united. All right. Then let me put it in order. Let me just take a moment to think about what you said, very briefly, so I'll also say these introductory notes. One part of quoting article 46, you haven't quoted it as saying it all the way. Public archives are founded, i.e. the founding rights of the Republic of Serbia, which is undoubtedly true, however, except for the archives of Vojvodina and the historical archive of Belgrade, whose founders are the AP Vojvodina and the city of Belgrade. As regards space, founders of Article 47, founders of Article 46, other than the obligation of units of local self-government, etc. they are obliged to provide funds in their budget for the financing of facilities, i.e. space for the reception and storage of archive buildings, so that funds for these purposes are provided for in this way. I'd take the opportunity to give an opening notice. I'll try not to be too long. As an independent state, Serbia had its Archive Act, so to speak, in 1898. That was 120 years ago. Now the adoption of this Law on Archives, or possibly its adoption, is actually some kind of historical event when it comes to archivism in Serbia. Meanwhile, some other laws have been regulated, such as the Cultural Goods Act and the like. This bill regulates the system of protection of archive buildings, conditions and method of use, organisations, jurisdiction and activity of archives. As I said, the Republic of Serbia has so far been one of the few countries in the world that does not have a law that comprehensively regulates the protection of archive construction. The current legal framework, i.e. The Cultural Goods Act is partly outdated and does not settle a number of issues. Legal regulation is the obligation of creators and holders of archive construction and documentary material in electronic form, the records of creators and holders of archive construction etc. The objectives achieved by adopting, or adopting, this law are – 1. the creation of a legal framework that will ensure full protection and preservation of the archive building, regardless of the form in which it is created and where it is located. This is one of the basic objectives that will be achieved by the adoption of this law. The regulation of this matter will have an impact on the development of awareness of the importance of preservation of the archival structure and of future generations, i.e. on the awareness that the most important documents must be protected from destruction because the archival document represents a sort of material testimony to the existence, organisation and functioning of a state and society, which also gives rise to the importance of this kind of document for science and culture. Two, establishing the archival fund of the Republic of Serbia as part of the national and world cultural heritage, as well as its addition to documents representing the work of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia, and located outside its territory, as well as documents and copies of documents of foreign sources relating to the history of Serbia and the Serbian people. Three, the rounding of legal regulations relating to the archival structure originating in electronic form, in a way that will guarantee its survival through time, i.e. the preservation of the data it contains. Four, setting up time limits for availability, conditions and how to use an archive building. Five, improving the conditions for the work of archives so that they can take the archival structure from their jurisdiction, registration environments and archivist processing, microfilms digitize, damaged structures can be preserved and restored, i.e. to be able to perform their work. Six, clearly defined obligations of the archive founder. Seven, regulating the archive's parent function. Eight, setting up professional calls in the archival profession. Nine, tightening the criminal policy that will contribute to the protection and preservation of the archive building. These would be the basics of the intentions, i.e. the objectives that are achieved by passing such a law, and there will be opportunities in the debate to look back at some of the views you have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68696	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68697	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, and I will address in my presentation some general questions regarding the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture and the Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the surrender of the Petersburg Gospel of the Republic of Serbia, the image of Nikolai Rerich to the Russian Federation, while my party colleagues in the further discussion will touch on certain details concerning both these two proposed laws and the draft law on archival construction and archival activity. Culture is one of the most important characteristics of man and society at all, since no other species owns culture. A state that takes care of itself and its identity and its future, and I believe that today is the state of Serbia, should invest as much in culture as possible. By saying this, I didn't mean purely material investment, but all other types of investment aimed at caring for the right values. The Law on Culture whose amendment and supplementation is today and before us came into force in September 2009 and was the first act of general character to establish systemic relations for the functioning of the cultural sector in the Republic of Serbia. During its application in March 2010, however, a number of shortcomings and practical problems were observed, so that in 2016, the first amendments and additions of this law were approached, with the aim of making all observed deficiencies in the original law of the document and thus making it fully applicable. Given that the Law on Culture for the first time established the basis for a harmonised and targeted regulation of the complete system of our culture, it is very important that, on the basis of experience in its previous application, further arrangements are continued in the field of culture through the adequate application of good laws and sublegal acts, so that, after four years of the previous amendments and the addition of the legal text, we again aim to approach the amendments and additions of those parts of the law which are justified to require a different regulation system from the former. I often have to admit sometimes and with the right, fellow MPs in this house have criticised some of the currents of the previous socialist system, but when we talk about culture, we have to admit that the conditions for its development were much better and more favourable during socialism than they were during the previous three decades. Whether I want to admit it or not, culture then took a very important place, the state was extremely concerned about the development of culture, financial investment was at a high level both investment in cultural production and infrastructure. In many particularly small areas, first libraries, galleries, theatres, cinemas, concert halls, cultural homes were opened on a private road. Most importantly, a system of values was established both in culture and in society as a whole, a system of values that he recognized and supported only quality. The change in the political system, the economic, economic and political crisis, which has affected most of the state's community and which has led to international conflicts and civil war, have left deep traces in all social spheres, including culture. It lasted nearly three decades of agony in which Serbia was in. It was particularly difficult from 2000 to 2012, when the heads of state were those whose personal interest and personal wealth was a priority and who destroyed everything else on behalf of it. The economy, economy, health care, agriculture and education, of course and culture were devastated, robbed, impoverished and devastated. With the change of the former regime in 2012, the dark period ended, and Serbia finally entered a period of recovery that is working on a long and difficult process that requires a lot of denial and work, but what is most important is that the process is possible. Thus, unlike the previous government, depicted in the image and Sunday of Tadic, Gilas, and Jeremic and their satraps who closed the cinemas, museums and theatres, the current republican government has opened the renovated National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Belgrade in just the last two years, as well as the renovated theatre "Bora Stankovic" in Vranja, and what is more important is the continuation of such a proper policy. To be honest, culture is an area where every government is rarely broad-minded, especially when it comes to budget-separation, politicians generally view culture as a cost rather than an investment in the future. It was not only Serbia's problem but also the largest number of countries in the world. When we mention the resources available to the Ministry of Culture, in the broadest sense of that word, I want to point out, and you will correct me if I am wrong that the estimated percentage of the allocation in this year is about 1%, which is a positive shift compared to, say, the budgets of the previous years, so for example, to take the 2011 budget, 2012, 2013. It is not easy to find the resources necessary to finance culture in an impoverished and robbed society as is ours, but we should not stop trying to make these funds bigger year after year. In addition, one of the basic tasks of the Ministry of Culture is to find a way to make the funding system as effective as possible, in order to replace the chronic lack of money in culture. In what I already called the recovery process, it is up to us to, i.e. in this Parliament, in the government of Serbia and on you personally, Mr Minister, so to tell all of us, it is a historic responsibility to stop the further process of collapse of true cultural values and to prevent the flood of primitiveism, vulgarity, simplicity, cheap content offered to citizens, primarily through the media. The Law on Culture itself, as well as these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Culture, are merely the basis for implementing a cultural strategy, preserving cultural heritage, improving cultural infrastructure and affirmation of real cultural values. The law is, as I said, the basis, and what is important, is its implementation, which will depend most on the future of culture in Serbia. The second topic I wanted to say today is what is the historic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the surrender of the Petersburg Gospel to the Republic of Serbia and pictures of Nikolai to the Great Russian Federation. A historic agreement that takes place abroad after 174 years 166 pages of Miroslav's Gospel, the oldest preserved Serbian illustrated Cyrillic manuscript. This valuable document of Serbian cultural heritage was written with a feather on the parchment of the 1980s for Miroslav Prince Huminski, son of Zavidina, and brother of Stefan Nemanje. The document was written in an ancient Slovenian language, Serbian editorials and rask orthography. In recent months, a story has been told in public about whether only one page of the Miroslav Gospel should be exchanged for seven paintings, the artist Nikolai Konstantinovich Rerich, who is being kept in our National Museum. The significance of the Gospel of Miroslav tells us enough that what is next to the archives of Nikola Tesla is our only document among 120 documents from all over the world recorded in the world's cultural heritage register called the UNESCO List of Memories. The Gospel of Peace has survived the perilous times of our country and our people, hidden, transmitted and thus preserved to this day. Although written on the territory of the White Field, about 300km away from Belgrade, it passed by seven and a half centuries more than 15,000 km on its way from Hilandar to Belgrade. Thanks to this centuries-long journey, as a silent witness to Serbian history, the fate of many other stolen burned and destroyed books has been avoided. It is very interesting that this story about the nakedness of this document, which with the state of Serbia and the Serbian people survived all historical events in the 20th century in the true sense of the word. It was brought from St. Gora to Serbia in 1896 by martyred King Aleksandr Obrenovic. Miroslav's Gospel disappears from the court safe during the May coup in 1903. After 11 years, it was found just before the beginning of the Great Work, during which it followed the movement of the Serb army from Kruševac to Nis, Kraljev and Raska, and then in 1915, passing the Albanian gogogoto traveled to Krf, and after the release it returned to Belgrade. Survived by the April 1941 bombing of Belgrade, the Gospel was targeted by fascists, and before them was taken first to Uzice, and then buried in the altar of Raca monastery. From 1941 to 1943, the monastery was robbed and burned several times, and Miroslav’s Gospel was not found or damaged. At the end of 1943, it was returned and hidden in Belgrade until its release, when it moved to guard at the then art museum, and today's Belgrade National Museum, where it is today. If for nothing else, only because of this Miroslav Gospel deserves to be completed again after 174 years because there is no price for such a thing. As the price has neither the friendship of the Serbian and Russian people nor our countries. Just as page 166 of the Gospel deserves to return to Russia after two centuries and join with the other sides, so seven paintings of artist Nikola Rerich deserves to be returned to Russia after an unfulfilled one century and together with a number of other Reich works of art to become part of the permanent position of the museum dedicated to this artist who will be opened in Moscow by the end of the year. At the end of this discussion as a folk MP coming from Temerin municipality, I will take the opportunity to ask the minister, as well as his associates to protect the citizens of Temerin municipality, more precisely Bački Jarak's settlements, in line with the possibilities to meet and help us protect our important cultural heritage. These days, the Regional Institute for the Protection of Monuments from Novi Sad has applied to the Ministry of Assets that are necessary to make reconstruction of the exceptional depletion and damaged facades of the local community building in the centre of Bačka Jark, a building that is one of the most beautiful monuments of the culture of the Danube Germans. Since the roof was completely reconstructed four years ago, with the reconstruction of the façade and replacement of the outer carpenterium of the building would now be preserved from further collapse. As I was saying at first, this building is one of those cultural goods that the former authorities did not take into account and did not invest in their maintenance, so we came into a situation that because of negligence and carelessness we could lose another cultural good. In the event that through the ministry we could implement funds for the reconstruction of façades and carpentry, local self-government could provide resources for the renovation of the interior of the building itself for the next year and thus fully protect this facility. Finally, I would just like to say that the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement of the People's Peasant Party and the United Peasants' Party will support all three legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68698	Thank you. Mr Vukosavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68699	So, about these first two topics, I wouldn't have anything to add. I fully agree with your analysis and insights and explanations of these circumstances that you have highlighted, and when it comes to the isolation of culture, regardless of the shift, is the separation of 1%. But that's where the media release comes in, informing, so it's about 0.75 for culture. And that is some progress compared to last year, but I agree that we have to keep company all the time, that's easy to say now, but it's also a matter of one effort and perseverance to give birth, give birth, and cultivate awareness that culture has to be constantly allocated more and more, of course, in accordance with the possibilities of the budget. What you pointed out is less, more and the position of the ministry. When it comes to this last one. In many other cases we have met local self-government when it comes to the protection of cultural heritage or the training of homes of culture and other cultural facilities, and if the project of documentation is neat, in accordance with regulations and proper, I believe there will be no obstacle to meeting this opportunity in a planned way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68700	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68701	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister and Mr. MPs. When we discuss today the amendment and addition of the Law on Culture, I will start with that one of the most important pillars on which each country rests is in fact its economy, the GDP that is being realised, the capital and the new values that we have produced and achieved in our work. In the second field, there is a culture in the field of upgrade, I would say in the highest place that is not only a game, theater, literature, music, painting, I would say it is solidarity, humanity, empathy, social culture, mutual respect, but also the preservation of the environment and all cultural values. The link between culture and human relations and ecology that make up the total cosmos of the man in which he lives is increasingly highlighted and potent. I have the impression that the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Culture, in fact, also took this comprehensive angle that justifies the definition, if it can be said the cultures and entities that function in it in accordance with all that we need to achieve in other areas of work and to realize that the overall environment in which we live in the future has made us better and better. If in a broader sense we look at and understand culture, then the amendments and additions of the Culture Act will be even more important because they create exactly the basis for connecting culture with all segments of society, as well as any future links and communication that will relate to culture. The proposed amendments and additions are in line with all new European and international documents, which, of course, is necessary, with which we must agree on our own in order to be a modern advanced state, regardless of what our fundamental aspirations, integration and integration into the EU are. So that's what we do for ourselves and for what we represent in terms of culture as a nation in all the previous times we are in and in which we should be and where we will be. With all this in mind, as well as a sustainable urban development strategy, it was necessary, in my opinion, to amend the current Culture Act as proposed. The proposed changes and additions provide for the country's obligation to provide support for cultural activities that promote cultural needs, promote activities, create cultural institutions, define them, assist and interpret cultural heritage and encourage the development and content of programmes, of course, especially for children, which is particularly important to us. It defines what are fundamental, basic cultural institutions, which develop systematically in a special way. But also, this Law on Culture determines and lists the subjects in culture, which are in line with this and subject to regulation in law. They have achieved their position through programs, forms of work, rich content that contribute to the development of total culture and art. Amendments and additions to the Law, for the first time, has been indicated which subjects are fundamental, complex, whose duration dates back to the beginning of the modern Serbian state and whose contribution to the Serbian culture of modern times has been continued and certified, according to the bill itself, that is, its reasoning. It is clear here that this, I repeat, is the Serbian Academy of Sciences, which was established in 1842, the Mother of Serbia in 1826, then the Serbian literary cooperative in 1892, and then there is Zakupina Ilija Kolarca in 1929, which is especially the task of one man directed to develop cultural activities in the Serbian people, but there are also two Dositeev and Vukov's responsibilities, which confirm their function and their role in reviving and affirming the works of those who are based on modern Serbian state and modern culture, language, letter, writing, writing of Dositeje and Vuk, whose work is invaluable, lasting good, and on whose messages and foundations I believe should continue to base our work and development. It is so important that these, in fact, elements are being established in future activities that must be considered priority in the field of culture. On this occasion, we must single out and repeat that budget allocations for culture, as the Ministry itself says, as the overall social public says, is less than one percent of the total budget and that amount cannot meet all the needs that are part of the overall functioning of the cultural system at the central and local level with us. That is why it is predicted, which I consider to be very good, is the first annual record of all detachments for culture, as well as records of all activities and programmes implemented in the context of the cultural development plan. In this way I think that it will be possible to know exactly what is at the state level, in the local environments carried out, where and how and how the quality is achieved, how much total funds for this at all levels are allocated precisely to the aim of providing the most qualitative and best programmes, but at the same time I think that the basis for such a quality assessment is that, in future budget plans, of course, is justified in accordance with its objective options. In any case, given what culture reflects, that it is our whole life, that it is public, that it is television, that it is a newspaper, that it is a book, that it has to be more isolated, because that is why our generation, the time in which we live, we realize with all the valuable and quality works we have, we recognize them in today's time, but at the same time we encourage young people to have their work recorded tomorrow. All of this suggests that the future must be better and fully monitored for the implementation of the programme, the purposely justified costs and the quality obtained. I expect, of course, that based on the overall, obtained estimates, we allocate more resources for culture, which I consider to be one of Serbia's special tasks. Finally, I would say that the Serbian people are an old historical people with rich heritage, but also highly developed contemporary creation. In that sense, I point out that our old responsibilities, churches and monasteries, preserve the testimony of a rich culture from the beginning of the beginning of the Serbian state, 11, 12, 13th century and beyond, at the time of so-called. The dark feud in Europe. The brightest example is the 12th - century Gospel of Miroslav, which is recorded in the UNESCO Book of Memory. I think that in the future, we must identify, restore and protect from all kinds of piracy, theft and takeover, which is, as we can see, a growing practice in recent years. In that sense, I think it is very good that heritage is given the proper attention, as well as all the forms of innovative technologies that apply to culture, digitalisation, microfilming, because they remain permanent testimony whose historical monument, when it is created, to which people belong, cannot be repeated in future termination, unfortunately, history. Finally, when all of this is considered, it must be said that amendments and additions to the Law were necessary, welcome and that they will ensure better regulation of this area, as well as better transparency of programmes, quality, content, financial costs and effects, and in this sense better and more developed culture, cultural creation and the position of artists who create it. So this change is why we support it. I will refer briefly to the second law offered for today's debate, where there is a bill on archival construction and archival activity. The archives are protection institutions that store and process archives, documents on the work of a series of institutions that are the historical testimony of the times when they were created. That's why the archives are especially our national treasure, which is also related to previous laws on culture, but unfortunately, as we have seen, we have not treated them that way, and therefore we have the state it is today, unfortunately. That is why we believe, as a parliamentary group of SPS, that this law is fully justified, welcome and it is a pity that it has not been much, much earlier established and delivered. This is proof of how we treat historical documents that are the testimony of our work and of our time. And that's why we can say, finally, this law. It's a good thing the Ministry of Culture recognized this as a very important question. When it comes to the Law confirming the Agreement of the State of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the handover of the Petersburg Gospel, I will highlight its full support, in terms of repeating the importance of the Miroslav Gospel of invaluable value as part of the world heritage, which belongs only to the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68702	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68703	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected cultural workers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have two laws and one proposal to amend and supplement laws, of exceptional national value, not only of the Serbian people but also of other peoples and national minorities. When it comes to draft amendments to the law, this is about the law on culture and the law on the law, the Law on Archival Construction and the return of the 166th list of the Gospel of Miroslav. We're going to the first law. As far as the Culture Act is concerned, it is very important to us why we bring it and what are the basic problems that this law needs to solve, which have not been solved in the previous period. As the minister in the opening work said that the area of culture is only part of the general functioning of our legal system, and as you know, our legal system has its own international connotation in terms of the international obligations undertaken in this area, therefore, it is necessary to bring our cultural obligations into line with the cultural system beyond the borders of our country. That is why we are harmonising the principles of the Culture Act with certain conventions, such as the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions of 2005, but also with other relevant international organisations such as the Universal Declaration on the Cultural Variety of UNESCO of 2001, the European Agenda for EU Culture of 2007, the White Paper on the intellectual dialogue of the 2008 Council of Europe. Dear Members of the public, I would like to point out, in particular, that the amendments to this proposal for a cultural law are in line with the strategy of urban, accelerated development. This proposal sets out and concreteises issues of general interest in culture, which is very important, since funding, i.e. financial resources for the achievement of general interest in culture, is provided in the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government. The law on culture doesn't have a definition of culture, I'm undermining this specifically. And once again, the Culture Act has no definition of culture. But that's why the frameworks in which the regulation of this law moves are established in defining the area of culture, which is very good, in my opinion. This proposal also creates a legal basis for the development of all activities relating to the digitisation of our cultural heritage, which is in line with the strategy of sustainable urban development already mentioned. Dear MPs, as you know, the separation for culture in our country is about 1% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that amount cannot satisfy our country's overall cultural needs. We really need to take care of that over the next few years. That is why the bill obliges cultural policy makers at all levels to spend financial resources in a plan, in a balanced and sustainable manner. That's very important. This will raise the level of their fair and efficient distribution. How are you gonna do that? Of course, through the obligation of cultural policy makers at all levels, that budgetary resources be allocated to clearly identified needs that have the character of general interest, not for other purposes, as we now have examples, starting with museums, through libraries and archives. I don't tell everyone, but in certain parts. Dear People's MPs, when it comes to digitising cultural heritage, then I stress and underline that these legal regulations that regulate this area have already been passed before. What are those regulations? The Law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in e-commerce from 2017 and in accordance with that law Regulation on the near conditions for the digitisation of cultural heritage from 2018, thereafter, the Law on library and information activity of 2011 and, accordingly, the Regulation on the coming conditions for digitisation of library and information building and source. In this sense, this amendment to the Law on Culture relating to the field of digitalisation of cultural heritage is, in fact, a alignment with the previously adopted acts, which are the basis of which the digitisation of our cultural building is already being done. Furthermore, the 2009 Culture Act has for the first time introduced the practice of electing a director of a public competition culture institution. What, gentlemen, is very important, and we wanted to do that? Of course, raise the quality of management in culture. Why? Because with real competition, we've made it possible for more interested in the function of directors and better choices. What did we get? Did the practice show that it was good? We have been shown that the Institute of Public Competition was not accepted as the legislator expected. Why, honourable Members of the people, is that very important, because now we are seen by cultural deputies? Because we played the director's office institute. The law provided that the Director's office is to be appointed for a limited period, one year, and that can be set exactly by the law laid down conditions, and there are two ways and there are no more – the first, when the term of office expires, and the second, when the public competition fails, but the Executive Board must explain it. However, what did we have in practice? The director’s office took place for more than a year in many cultural institutions, some even two, three years. So, what did we do now? We have done so with this proposal to oblige the Management Board of the Institute of Culture to clearly explain the reasons why no competitions have been called within the set deadline, but this proposal prohibits the same person from being a multiple performer of the office of the Director of the Institute of Culture. I'm undermining this especially because of those who look at us from culture today. One of the conditions, the minister said, for the director's office was the working experience of five years in the profession. And it was played out because this word was misused “in the profession. ” That is why this concept is now precisely precise and stands "in the area of culture" and even, as the people would say, point and cannot be different. Art games are one of the most difficult professions, as the minister said, which requires great investment and the artist himself, but also a great risk of injuries and occupational illnesses. This is why this area is further regulated by this bill. The existing law did not recognise the specific interest of players, but the ban on employment, which we passed the law, and rationalisation affected the creation of certain problems in this particular area of culture. What are those problems? The problem of hiring young people in cultural institutions, then the problem of creating the right of players to retire after a completed career, the problem of requalifying players into related professions not only in cultural institutions, but also in education. So it's really extremely well-exacted now. That is why we have priority tasks in the next period – firstly, inadequate legal solutions when it comes to the right of players to retire are now resolved, the social protection of players in professional performance and injuries, further, the legal regulation of termination of employment, this is extremely important. We also add to this the free jobs of young players and a sustainable system of generations that provides a stable and quality process in the future. This law improves, which is very important, the social security of players, as well as the possibility of improving artistic games in all fields. It is extremely important, I underline, that this law will regulate issues related to the payment of contributions to pension and disability and health insurance, and funds are provided from the republican, autonomous province and local self-government units. We're going to the second law, the law on archival construction. Dear cultural MPs, don't be surprised by this sentence first – the Republic of Serbia is one of the few countries in the world that has no law on archival construction and archival activity that would in a comprehensive way establish the protection of archival construction and functioning of archival activity. I'll tell you what it's about. The truth that there was a Law on Cultural Goods that was adopted far away in 1994, however, the provisions of this law do not lay down very important issues in this domain. What are those questions? First of all, it does not determine an archival structure that originally occurs in electronic form, i.e. the obligation of the owner and the creator of the archive structure in electronic form. Secondly, it does not edit the records of the creator and the owner of the archive building in electronic form. Thirdly, it does not regulate the archival structure of legal entities that prior to the privatisation process were social property and state property, this is very important. Furthermore, it does not edit special or private archives, there is no word in public about them, does not edit the parenting of the archives, does not edit professional archival calls that are of exceptional importance. Furthermore, most archives, let me say, in the Republic of Serbia, perform their work in very, very, three, very difficult conditions. Why? Because they don't have enough space to house an archival building, because there's a lack of professional staff, we don't have a study of archivals today in the state, it's a tragedy of our university and university, especially philosophy colleges. We don't even have the departments for history as a special subject of archivism, except for one college, and it's not in Belgrade, or Novi Sad, or Nis, and guess who. Next, because it's outdated equipment, because there's a funding problem. As for the archives in the Yugoslavia, we have a picture. For the Serbian people, the oldest archive is the Croatian State Archives in Dubrovnik, underlining, which reaches only the second half of the 13th century after its beginning. Dear People's MPs and cultural MPs, we have a notary for the Cyrillic charters in the 13th century. It was then that the Serbian office in Dubrovnik was established. This is very important. Can you imagine historians who don't visit that archive and are engaged in Serbian history? Furthermore, the Croatian State Archives in Zadar was formally established in 1625, but also earlier, I say formally. We're going to Slovenia, one sentence. There is an Earth archive in Slovenia, it was founded in 1888, to be part of the National Museum in Ljubljana in 1826. We're going to the Republic of Macedonia. The state archive in Skopje was founded in 1926, but I underline three times but, as a subsidiary of the State Archives of Serbia, only in 1951, it receives its state archive of Macedonia. Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be brief, gets several in 1947 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not counting special archives in Sarajevo. In the end, Serbia now let's see where it is. The state archive in Belgrade, today the Serbian Archives, has its history since 1846, received its building in 1928 in which it is still present. There are huge problems regarding insurance and financial resources, as well as professional staff. The adoption of this law will create institutional grounds for ensuring the conditions necessary to carry out the work of protecting the archive building and the even development of archives. This is extremely important for all those who work in the archives. Furthermore, the largest number of archives due to insufficient funding by local self-government are not able to carry out its work in an adequate manner. The number of staff employees is inadequate, and the size of jobs is increasing. The current legal framework is mostly outdated, does not regulate a number of issues related to protection and improvement of archive construction. That's why this law is extremely important, and I'm not going to repeat what the minister said about him wanting to improve. First of all, the creation of a legal framework, then the establishment of an archival fund for the first time in the Republic of Serbia, as a national and world cultural heritage, as well as its addition to documents that form part of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia, and are located outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which are extremely important for the history of the Serbian people. I don't want to keep counting. I think the law is extremely good. Thank you, Ministers and the Ministry, that after so many years, we are really getting the law on archival construction and archival activity, which is proud of this government. Finally, let me say about the bill something about confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the surrender of the Petersburg Gospel to the Republic of Serbia and the pictures of Nikola Konstantinovich Rerich to the Russian Federation. Dear citizens, I address you, Miroslav's Gospel, one of the oldest, most beautiful and most significant Serbian Cyrillic monuments of the 12th century Serbian, or Serbian-Slovenian literacy, was created in the White Pole, and it is correctly known that I quote the "wrong Gregory Dijak", a quote completed during the Grand Hun Prince Miroslav. It is not Miroslav, as some write, written, but by the sinful Gregory Dijak, and by Miroslav it is called. Miroslav's Gospel is a masterpiece of Serbian medieval calligraphy, so if you want fine art. The Gospel is kept in Hilandar until 1896, when the monks there gave it to Alexander Obrenovic. It is held today at the National Museum in Belgrade, except for the 166th list, which is kept in the Russian National Library, in St. Petersburg. Arhymandrid Porphyrius was in Hilandar in the winter of 1845, 1846. That's when he stole that 166th leaf and took it to Russia, where it is today. It was first betrayed by our great Serbian historian and diplomat Ljubomir Stojanovic in Vienna. I think there are 15 photocopies of that specimen. Since 2005, Miroslav's Gospel has been on the UNESCO list "The Memory of the Ages". In November 2012, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in Zagreb organized a scientific event, "Croatian Cyrillic Heritage" and, behold, wonders, where she tried to present Miroslav's Gospel as a work of written Croatian Cyrillic and Cyrillic heritage. If it's from the Croats, it's a lot. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have tried for many years to get the Serbian authorities back from Russia 166th of Miroslav's Gospel and did not go after them. That is the only thing that has worked for the Serbian president, reformer and statesman and above all patriotism, our President Aleksandr Vukic, with the help of Russian Federation President Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin. In the end, I'm speaking to you, Mr. President. Mr. President of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, thank you for returning the 166th edition of Miroslav's Gospel after 175 years where it belongs. Only the president of Serbia, whose national identity and country is above all else, could have done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68704	Thank you. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68705	Thank you, Chairman. Ministers with associates, I will not repeat what you, Minister, said in your opening statement, or what all of my colleagues spoke about in their presentations, because I would risk repeating at least a part of all their presentations. Of course we agree with all the proposed changes and additions. I will try to make culture and what our needs are in culture, and in accordance with this law, we will look at it in a slightly broader context. In the broadest sense of culture and metaphorically speaking, culture is an unsustainable source and an unconstitutional river that flows, and so it will be as long as there is life on earth. This is confirmed by twenty centuries of eras and extinct civilizations that continue to live and that practically extend their lives as an inspiring treasure of civilization and confirmation, in fact, the universality of human creation. Yesterday, my colleague, speaking of the laws on education, quoted Socrates, and today, I think it's Heraclet, to call on his thought, that the same river can't be entered twice and that everything is going on, so I'm going to paraphrasing and actually put it into the context of culture, because that's exactly how culture spreads and never repeats itself in the same way, unless, of course, we're talking about imitation, about what's in the concept of quasiculture culture. We need a culture development strategy that will define cultural policy in the long run. For us from SDPS cultural content must be available to all citizens of Serbia. Culture must not be left to the market or at least not to the market, because then the homes of culture and cultural institutions will be forced to reshape their basic work and perhaps reach for the creation of unquality cultural content or quasiculture. The culture for SDPS must not be elitist, i.e. only available to the highest number of citizens or to those who can afford quality cultural content at this time. It is a well-known fact, and you cited it in your presentation, that Serbia stands out less than 1% of the culture budget. It is also true that the amount of money is not always guaranteed the value of cultural content, such as the truth that the lack of money does not always have to be an obstacle to achieving all those goals that we set as long-term goals for the development of Serbia's state culture. The audience is the best sponsor and only the audience we develop cultural needs. Cultural needs are necessary, especially today. They're more necessary than ever before. On the other hand, when I mentioned money and a lack of money, we don't have to go too far in the past. Let's say, after World War II, when we built the earth out of ashes, when there was no money, 1450 homes of culture were built in four years. These cultural homes were not just places to consume cultural content. These were socialization sites, places where amateur theatres and folklore societies were formed, organized and art sections, etc., and the unhinged homes of culture also existed where the economic development of these environments started. If we were able to make 1450 homes of culture in four years then, we must today also make an effort to bring a good part of the cultural home in Serbia, to the villages where it is possible to repair buildings that were once called home of culture and thus bring cultural contents and culture to every citizen of this country. I think that only with such a long-term defined cultural policy and clearly set goals of cultural development, the lack of money will not be a problem because in this way we will animate and launch creativity among all those people in these environments who have been involved, not feeling a single kind of support to allow them places to socialise and meet in which they could create cultural content themselves. Our role and our obligation is to enable them to do so and to help them. As I said, the SDPS advocates both programming and essential by its social democratic nature for culture, i.e. cultural content, which will be available to all. As I have already said, decentralisation in culture and helping small communities to establish a cultural core and, of course, which is extremely important, it is also necessary to help national minorities develop and promote their culture and create their cultural contents. As Social Democrats, it is also important for us to determine at the level of the state the minimum financial resources that municipalities have to allocate to finance projects in culture, as well as tax incentives for all those who want to donate artistic projects and produce cultural content. In the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, it is very important and complete protection of copyright, as well as scholarship and assistance to promote, perfect and employ artistic talents. So, one systematic regulation and resolution of the financing of institutions and individual projects in culture, which will be designed to culturally raise the spiritual and cultural awareness of the people, because, as we know, by general theory, culture includes the entire fluid of civilization, as I cited at the very beginning of this exhibition. Furthermore, culture, as we understand it in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, requires constant and thorough research. They can help us look at the remains of the past, determine the existing and predict the future. Well-organised and regular research of the socio-responsible structure will not be found in the state, but will always be able to adequately and proactively monitor this situation and, as I said, influence it proactively. As I said, one of the basic research is just to explore cultural needs in a social environment. These cultural needs must relate to the comprehensive and systematic research of all the structures of society, so that we can do even more to develop what we call cultural needs. I, preparing for this session, read some statistics from 2015, so there's no point in saying them here now, but these data are just pointing to the need to develop what the cultural needs of the population are and to examine, that we simply know what citizens mean by cultural needs, which are cultural content that they perceive as content worth and spiritual uplifting and raising awareness to some higher level, so that they can then improve their lives and raise to a higher level. Dake, in order for all these basic and very important cultural functions to be realized, every institution in culture must be creatively free, i.e. to relieve the burden of material difficulties. That is why it is extremely important, once again, to point out that we must preserve culture from the harshness of the market. We must not leave culture exclusively to market regulation. It takes one mutually good will and co-operation. And that, in order to sum up all of these ideas and one vision of Serbia's cultural development from the corner of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, is contained in one principle on which the state should not behave restrictively, but that neither culture behaves automatically. I think that in this interspace we have to and can come up with one solution together and determine the long-term goals and principles of cultural development, because cultural development is what we need most at these moments that we are still in transition, it is necessary to know where we are going and where we want to go. I have already said that if we could once cultivate and build and improve the homes of culture and cultural content, we would have to do so today, since we know that in the last twenty or more years, for known reasons, we have ignored almost all areas of spiritual activity, thus also cultural policy and cultural models. The cultural model earlier in Yugoslavia, as I have already cited, existed and was built on the foundations of a socialist view of culture, based on that culture. All that was good, which proved to be good, we can use and use and adapt to today's moment in which we live, because as we know, one of the essential elements for building a middle class, which is society, is exactly a culture, which, among other things, contains both cultural and educational and artistic and sociological and, of course, a fun function. You also spoke of culture as a top export brand and it is also very important, because the fact that culture and sport are both significant social activities that can positively affirm both the state and society. In this sense, sport has already taken a significant position in society and is not a question for athletes to go out on the world arena. I'd say culture isn't that easy, it's not exactly the same condition. Of course, it must not drag MPs into defetism, but on the contrary, into a proactive approach, into action. And as a boost to that idea, we also have experience from our earlier cultural history, and it is thought of the period of the '60s and '70s, when, as we know, culture was extremely present on the world stage, especially fine art. It's just, let me say it again, all of what we've had in history as good examples, we can use in the future. I know that the place of the Minister of Culture is one of the most difficult positions in the government, perhaps that is why it is not particularly attractive, demanding both passion and strong confidence and time to establish one particular policy, but also requires both single and large support from all other members of the government. In that sense, we talked here yesterday about education laws. It is very important that the Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Education, create an ambitious plan for art and culture, i.e. more culture and in school programmes, because this would, in fact, make school a central place of early encounter and with cultural works, but in this way we would already have an impact on the formation of what are cultural needs and what is very important for raising future users of cultural content. Therefore, the ministry should also encourage private initiatives and create foundations and donations, etc., as special financial reliefs. Secondly, as stated in the explanation of the amendments and additions to this law, tourism is a very important role in the merger between sectors. You have also stated that one of the objectives of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Culture is to make this interaction with other resolutions, so that we can improve good results in these areas and increase them right through supply and cultural content, that is what you call cultural tourism in the amendments and additions to the law. We can call him whatever we want as long as we know what our goal is. Of course, the SDPS will support the proposals you put before the MPs in the voting day. A colleague Atlagic explained so well the remaining two bill proposals, that I will not spend or take time on colleagues to continue this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68706	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we do not often have a culture of topics, nor have the preoccupation of any government since 2000, and it has been missed that one phenomenon that has been seen since 5 October, and today, that representatives of so-called NGOs in the field of culture have become the main moral authorities and so on, the topics they force. We also discussed the budget in the previous year, and we saw that a little more than 10 billion dinars are being allocated to finance so-called NGOs. Of course, that's the figure of financing the SPC and the Red Cross and everything else. But a significant amount of money is also set aside for those NGOs who, under a human rights protection company, actually carry out propaganda and represent an anti-Serbian policy, as well as anti-Serbian ideology. We've seen what are their main and dominant themes. So, Serbs committed a series of war crimes at KIM, ethnic cleansing, and then it's perfectly normal that today the Republic of Kosovo is an independent state, which is about the time Serbia doesn't have to pay war compensation. Of course, those evil criminal Serbs are themselves to blame for all this because they were bombed. They were bombed as little as they needed, and that's quite a Serbian responsibility. Of course, what the Republic of Serbia is. The Serb people, Republika Srpska, committed genocide in Srebrenica, is something that is essential to the Serb being, because it is in the nature of criminality and it is something that could have been expected. These are topics that have been serving us for 20 years, representatives of so-called human-right NGOs, "The Fund for Humanitarian Law", "The Open Society Fund", "Yukom", "The Hellsin Committee", "Citizen Initiatives", "The House of Human Rights" and all others. They're funded, of course, from abroad, and there's nothing weird about it. But it worries when they are also funded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. by the Republic of Serbia. In competitions called by the Office of Human and Minority Rights, 300 million dinars that only such NGOs can apply. It's something to worry about. So these are their dominant topics. We also had an official state policy somewhere that financed such projects in cinema, for example, and was financed by the government of the Republic of Serbia by an anti-Serbian film "Turkey", if you know what it was about, and also because of political preferences, the previous government financed by an anti-Serbian film "Parad" by Srdjan Dragojevic, who was at that moment an MP of the ruling majority, in front of the SPS and many other things. She did not understand the role of culture in our society in the best possible way, especially the empowerment and preservation of national culture. We have come to the situation after 20 years of October 5th, some to a lesser extent, that our main cultural distance and the main moral authority are "Sandstone" and "Beton" and all that they do and publish what they do is culture, and when it comes to, for example, the Matica Serbian, Serbian literary society or some other national projects that are not in large numbers, but there are, then something that reminds us of so-called large Serbian aggression, the criminal past and so on. We even have some terms in culture that are just doing it, completely invented precisely because of the functioning of NGOs. Even somewhere in some universities, we have such items as "Transition Justice", which resembles the Serbian criminal role in Yugoslavia's collapse and justify the delivery of Serbs to The Hague tribunal, but also the functioning of The Hague tribunal, a memory culture aimed at promoting alleged genocide in Srebrenica, etc. It's present today at the colleges. Yesterday we talked about publishing work in the textbook field. We had a chance to see a lot of scandals in that field. The last of them was when one of these textbooks, it was History for the seventh grade of elementary school, "Blood tax", kidnapping children from enslaved peoples and enslaved families to serve as soldiers in the Ottoman Empire, was actually presented as an opportunity to advance in the hierarchy of the Turkish Empire. Before that, we had a lot of scandals with some fictitious maps, historical forgeries that depicted some kind of Croatian state at a time when it didn't even exist. Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia not prevent such things? He can do that very easily. We have the Institute for the Publishing of textbooks, we have the "Official Messenger", and they are still the most popular and most represented textbooks, primarily from History by publishers owned by "The School Book" from Zagreb, the HDZ financier, these are publishing houses "Clet", "Logos", "Bigz" and some others and then we can find such things to find. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not seem to be making any effort, not even to read any of these textbooks before they appear in schools, and teachers are free to determine for themselves who will use such textbooks. We believe textbooks from History and Serbian should not be a matter of the market. It has to be something that's under the control of the state, so that things like that don't happen anymore. That's what one responsible government would do, not for some profit, if we could find something like that and react only when the problem arises, only when such a scandal happens. We have not seen that something positive has changed. We have heard more than once the UNESK question, the protection of our cultural goods, above all our cultural heritage at KIM. The government of the Republic of Serbia has very much engaged that so-called The republic of Kosovo does not become a member of UNESCO and has achieved some successes on the road. On two occasions, Kosovo did not have a UNESCO member. On the other hand, it is only a short-term solution, since if we continue through European integration, Serbia will need to sign legally binding agreements with so-called. Kosovo's republic, which aims among other things to prevent the blocking of each other's membership in international organisations. The UN membership is also thought of as rounding the statehood of Kosovo, and when Kosovo and if it becomes a member of the UN, it will no longer be important and there will be no vote in UNESCO, because Kosovo will then become a member of UNESCO. So this government is somewhere contradicting itself, as far as this policy is concerned. We also have a dangerous situation today that can serve as a note of what can happen in Kosovo. That's what's happening in Montenegro today. So, an anti-Serbian government in Montenegro, a conversion policy whose policy consists exclusively of anti-Serbian and anti-Serbian hysteria has passed the Law on freedom of religion which aims to confiscate the property of the SPC, including sacral objects of some senseless norms, which deny the incomparability of private property, the separation of the state from the church, all that is codified in the Constitution of Montenegro, and we have not heard from the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the reactions we have heard were extremely soft, and then, of course, by building up how it is mixing into the internal affairs of another country. It is something that can happen to us similar in Kosovo if such an agreement occurs. So the preservation of our cultural heritage and national identity is in conflict with the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which is Serbia's declared membership in the EU. We saw in financing these NGOs some of their performances in Belgrade. We've seen that they promote very often, gatherings on the subject make about so-called. The genocide in Srebrenica, about some major Serbian aggression in Vukovar, and then a few years in a row, made it possible for the progressive majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia, where most of them have, before them, to hold the festival "Mirdita", the promotion of Kosovo culture every year, and then to make it even bigger, some prominent representatives of the regime, former culture minister and city councilors there today in the Belgrade City Assembly, Tasovac and nakarada, they went there to support it, along with Cedomir Jovanovic and others, I don't know exactly how to list it, and these are from this list of 88 prominent figures. So, the promotion of Kosovo culture in downtown Belgrade, which is in an indirect way financed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, is precisely through the financing of these NGOs that are becoming and spending money for these purposes. Is that normal and is that caring about preserving our national identity every year? Of course, financing and preserving the Mother of the Serbian and Serbian literary cooperative is several times less than funding NGOs, these human rights. So, if we're looking out for the preservation of our national identity, I guess that should be number one priority. We also had a chance to see hysteria when a prominent world-class writer, Peter Hanke, won the Nobel Prize in Literature. We were able to see the hysteria of these very representatives of the NGO, that this is a reward for genocide, for crime, for supporting crime, only because Hanke is a Serbian friend who supported the Serbian people in the most difficult times and during the time of the bombing and the Serbian people across the Drina. We saw hysteria and uncontrolled and unarticulated attacks over all of it, as if we had awarded the Nobel Prize, and we came out with the initiative that the government of the Republic of Serbia publishes the collected works of Peter Hanke as a token of gratitude for his support to our people. We didn't get an answer for that. So is it because of fear, because these are not irrelevant to the factor in our society today, NGOs and if, by any chance, they turn against a ruling party, the ruling party can question its survival in power. We have seen that these same NGOs, all parties of the pro-Western opposition and the ruling parties gather for the same table when they need to be taught, to explain to them how elections should look in Serbia, how they should be voted, what electoral conditions are. Automatic pro-Western opposition parties and ruling parties forget all the differences and come to the meeting when Soros convenes and it is not easy then from the position of the ruling party to object to them. One more thing when we're talking about the archives, why hasn't the Government of the Republic of Serbia done anything about another of our SRS initiatives, which is the establishment of an institute to study The Hague verdicts? So we are witnessing that the Hague tribunal is creating a new history for us. The main role of The Hague tribunal is to transfer all blame for the bloody collapse and civil war in Yugoslavia to the Serbian people. This is also the statistics of these judgments and the processes that are being conducted there. Why would we accept the political action of an ad hoc tribunal that is not even established in accordance with justice and justice, why not examine the contents of these verdicts ourselves and the functioning of the UN tribunal at all? This should be one of our basic goals in order to show what they think of us and how they operate? It could be someone who doesn't like it, that could put what's called a threat to what's going on. The path of European integration, but since it is certainly not something that is certain, it will not bother anyone, nor will we be hindered by it. There's something every serious state does, and that's investing in cultural politics. American professor, international relations expert Joseph Naj has long spoken of the term "soft power". Every serious state should have a serious cultural strategy, precisely because of this influence to put into focus the most important national topics, historical things, and not wait for what someone who is anti-Serbian to do and then fakely represent and adopt it as a culture. "Beton" and "Sandstone" are not culture, "Exit" is not culture. Why would they take it for granted without doing anything about it? On the other hand, since this is in your portfolio, what is the reaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to that of RTS very often when it represents a map of Serbia, not only in the weather forecast, but also in the information programme, it does so without KIM territory? How can they do that? Serbia's radio television is not private television, it's not television from Luxembourg, it's not television from any of those who support the government or any other, it's a television that's funded from the budget directly. No one knows how this television works, and for them, Serbia without Kosovo is one normal thing and they are tolerated? How is that possible? So, if we want to take care of our culture, our cultural heritage and preserve our national identity, which is at risk on each side of the neighbouring countries and by NGOs and international factors, we need these issues to be more serious, not to be a side topic that doesn't answer anyone, not to listen to those self-invited experts, experts on these issues that see in everything a large Serbian, genocide, aggressive policy and everything else, but rather to look out for ourselves and stop financing something that's not in the national interest of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68708	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68709	Thank you. Here, just a quick look at what you said. So, the good news is, I've been waiting for us to sign the contract, so let's publish it, but the Ministry of Culture and Information has provided funds and reached an agreement with one of our prominent publishers, and the selected works of Peter Handke will be printed this year and the God of Health will appear at the book fair in October in Belgrade. So as far as... (The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, throws without a microphone. I didn't hear what you said. With the official messenger, we have reached agreement in principle, we will see how and when the contract will be signed. So it's not Serbian, I don't know what you said, or it is, you're probably kidding. So as far as Peter Handke is concerned, that thing was done that way. As for these other topics, mainly when it comes to textbooks, it is not our jurisdiction, but when it comes to the strategy of cultural development and the Ministry of Culture prepared two years ago the text of the cultural development strategy and this text is on the website of the Ministry of Culture and Information. However, there was no order before the government, during last year's adoption of the Budgetary System Act, so it prompted a round of consensus and changes in some of the action plans and some of the details in the strategy, and it is now again sent to the resolution ministries and I expect, of course, to agree with anyone who thinks that without a strategic document in cultural development any cultural policy is condemned to improvisation. So we have thought about it before and this document has been practically done, and there are procedural questions about the content of this text and about the basic intentions and principles of and cultural policy. Anyone can get to know each other at the Ministry of Culture and Information site, so I believe that this document will be in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68710	I thank you, Minister Vukosavljevic. Comrade Seselj, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68711	Of course, it's good news if there really is a publication of Peter Handke's collected works. That, of course, shows that we have not forgotten our friends who supported us at those times when it was the most difficult for us. The basic thing to solve this two-decade problem is to just separate from those who haven't thought us any good, from the foreign agents who have been very present here and who have put the culture resistor under their paw for 20 years. These are representatives of NGOs. Do you think it is normal for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to finance in any way NGOs that are increasingly funded from abroad for anti-Serbian action, because after that money they receive from the government, they spend on Mirdita or the genocide in Srebrenica. That's insane. Let us let them finance how they know for themselves, and the money they receive from the government shift to the Matica Serbian, Serbian literary cooperative and other cultural institutions. That would be patriotic and responsible somewhere. What they are paying is in some way paying their silence and not turning to those who put them in Serbia, the George Foundation, Soros and others, against the government of the Republic of Serbia and then endangering the ruling party in power. That's the only reason I can see those in the budget getting paid and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68712	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. We are moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 9 to 11 of the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, colleague Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68713	Ladies and gentlemen, honored present, the topic of culture is one of the most important, most interesting and for us folk MPs, parties of justice and reconciliation and that it is fortunate to have more opportunity to treat this topic, especially from a theoretical aspect. I think we miss seeing and throwing light, especially in terms of the already mentioned culture strategy, that is, culture policy where I apply that we still have problems similar to what I said yesterday with education. So culture is present to us, but mostly in our headline orientations, but it's far from being the strategic most important topics of this country and the whole nation. Of course, it can only happen when we raise education to that level and that's what I really want to point out to this occasion. I'm afraid that with our views and attitudes so far in relation to culture we've been set up by certain stereotypes or we've placed a culture in certain institutions where we serve a very small number of citizens who are facing these institutions, or we've also defined ourselves according to the culture of the past, or the preservation of cultural heritage which is not irrelevant, but should not be the most important. Because it's some kind of epimetic orientation towards culture, or culture of archaeology, where we spend enormous energy exclusively on preserving what our ancestors have achieved, forgetting what future generations will do. Are they going to have anything to guard what we raise, and in fact, in the field of culture, very little or almost nothing raises. The second drawback is the exclusive focus on so-called. material culture that is important again, but never the most important again. So it's important to reconfirm the topic of culture from the aspect of its essence, and it's primarily immaterial and it's actually what is based on two postulates. On the postulate or basis of knowledge on the one hand and on the postulate of spirituality on the other. Only then will we be able to raise young generations as capacity and potential for cultural creation in the strategic orientation of culture, for what will be a culture defined by the future. Every nation and every culture that is defined solely or primarily towards the past has no future in its perception of culture. It is a trap involving many peoples, many nations and many countries, and Serbia is also on the verge of that mistake or is deep in that mistake. I am very pleased to have what we are adopting today, the return of this page of the Gospel of Miroslav, which is known to have arisen and discovered in the area of the White Field. In my book "Old Bosnia", I treated this document as a couple of excels document of cultural importance and that has even above ethnic value. I also called it a colloquy, or document called it the Sandzak Gospel, which irritated some readers. However, I do so on purpose precisely by pointing to certain cultural resources, i.e. treasures, which have a broader meaning than one ethnost, which of course does not reduce the value and importance of this ethnos, and certainly should support such steps to protect the entire cultural heritage. However, I would also like to point out, because of the permanent potential of the notion of Serbian, Serbian, Serbian, Serbian, please do not forget, without any intention of reducing ambition towards this orientation, but in this country lives around a third of non-Serb nationalities, and therefore it is of utmost importance both in cultural projects and in our entire cultural and political rhetoric that we do not neglect, because it is also possible to support those aspects of cultural diversity that minority peoples in this country treat as part of the entire national and state resources, which is defined in principle by the Constitution. Now I'm talking about operating on it, not only through laws but through our entire discourse text with such capacities, then we can certainly open up a new white page and certainly brighter the future in terms of perception and realization and production in culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68714	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68715	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, dear fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today to amend the roof law on culture, but also the Law on Archival Construction, as well as for Serbian history and culture, a very important agreement that brings Serbia back to 166th side of Miroslav's Gospel, the oldest monument to Serbian-Slovenian literacy from the 12th century. When it comes to the law on culture and change proposed, it is important to say that the mission of this legal act is important for the preservation of our history and our cultural identity for cultural development and for the affirmation of a multicultural society as is ours, above all. For me, there is special importance in that segment of the law that determines the general, for me it is a state interest in the field of culture, which implies that conditions are created for cultural development and conditions for the preservation and valorisation of our valuable cultural heritage, our valuable movable and immovable cultural goods. We, as a nation, have made a huge contribution to world culture to our valuable cultural heritage for over eight centuries. Here I especially think of our monasteries and churches, first of all, built at the time of Nemanjic, of which they became the most valuable part of the world's cultural heritage and are protected by UNESCO, Studenica, Gracanica, Star Ras with Sopocans, Pećka Patriarchy, High Decani and not to count. The important cultural heritage that testifies to our existence and eternal life in these places, and how important it is to say, unfortunately, that today in one part of our country's territory, Kosovo and Metohija, without mercy and respect, our most valuable sanctities are destroyed, and those that are part of the world's cultural heritage and which the world has valued as an inheritance worth all of humanity. Unfortunately, there seems to be no protection from those who dared to take the crosses off our sanctity, to burn monasteries and churches, to burn icons and valuable books. What exactly is this about? It's about stealing and falsifying history, first of all. They think that by burning or kidnapping our saints, they will also burn our history and culture, as they once thought, by burning St. Sava's must, they will destroy his cult in the Serbian people. That certainly didn't happen. Today is the scene of the abduction of our sanctity, and it is primarily done by those who would steal our history to get to one of their own. It's not the first time that the revision of our history is trying to create some of its own, conditionalally speaking. I thought that the greatest defeat a man can experience was actually to come to the Infantry Patriarchy and see it surrounded by some barbed wire, and then, in peacetime conditions, someone allowed himself the luxury of an invisible barbed wire braiding around the monastery of Ostroga, the monastery of Morac, the monastery of St. Peter Cetinjski, without distinction. It's obvious, and I'm going to allow myself the luxury of saying, synchronised for decades back, the need for individuals to adapt history to themselves. These little worthless people, under the pressure of their own complex, are first and foremost taking away the identity of the Serbian people, primarily through the abduction of Serbian cultural heritage. They allowed themselves to be large like Nikola Tesla, Nejegos, Milutin Milankovic, Dosite Obradovic, and if I didn't count, it would take time to adopt them solely because of the need to acquire them themselves. In this sense, Serbia certainly has its failures. This Law on Culture makes the team more likely to feel that there has been a sobering by the fact that for the first time in the law, and without delay in the society to which it belongs was found by Dosite Obradovic. I will not talk about it in detail, first of all because the founder of the Service is my dear and distinguished colleague Mira Dragas, the authorised representative of the SPS in this search, and she spoke in detail about the importance of such a task and the importance of this move that he has placed in the law. The second law, the law on archival construction, also confirms that the Ministry of Culture finally recognized the importance of archives as valuable historical buildings. The current moment teaches us that the future potential kidnappers need to be protected primarily by history, and it is also a cultural heritage that we are talking about, without the difference whether religious objects aged several centuries or written documents like Miroslav's Gospel, which after 180 years is completed and will finally be complete. I will remind you that Miroslav's Gospel is the oldest preserved Serbian original document written in ancient Slovenian. This document, except for us Serbs, has invaluable value for all mankind, because this document was included in the library "The Memory of the World", which became one of the 120 most valuable goods created by humanity in 2005. We have reason for historical pride, but he also obliges us to preserve the Gospel of Miroslav and other heritage both from oblivion and from destruction. That's why I think for this congregational assembly this is really a special day in which we recognize all the shortcomings, we will advance through the adoption of these laws that will probably, like all the laws that have been passed, have at some point to be improved and adapted to the moment, but certainly we are doing a historic venture and we are paying back the debt to our past and our sacred ancestors. I want to believe that this is the greatest step, but the first step towards everything that we have to do as a current generation to leave to future generations, and that's where we fully agree with our colleagues, we have to leave in the legacy what our actions are, but also preserve everything that our ancestors have left us in the amannet, no difference whose ambition is to take it from us. It would take a discussion if we were to deal with the individual needs of anyone and I have no problem with everything that is cultural heritage and is considered a world cultural heritage everyone has the right to own, but not to kidnap. There's a huge difference between these two categories. In that sense, indeed to the satisfaction of all my colleagues, the SPS parliamentary group will support without doubt in the voting day all three proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68716	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68717	Thank you. As you have already heard, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party advocate strong legislation when it comes to any kind of raising cultural organisation, especially cultural awareness. I will continue where the distinguished academic Zukorlic stopped in his explanation, i.e. The fact that when it comes to culture as a meeting place of diversity should work much more to see that within the Republic of Serbia, they also recognise and promote the value of different cultural identities. When we talk about that third of the population of non-Serb ethical origin, in cultural institutions, and in particular media and teaching content, there is very little representation of their culture, their identity and the familiarity of the majority people, let's say, with all the specificities of the cultural identity of all the national communities. This is something that really should be more present in education systems, in media structures, especially at the Public Service, where we do not have cultural content that concerns the specificities of the identity of the national communities, so that we can meet each other and thus develop and cultivate our specialities, but also build up some valuable identity of all our peoples. With this in mind, it would be very important to work on the dispersion of cultural events of institutions throughout the country, because, somehow, if you look at the most significant cultural events, cultural institutions, at least 80% of them are concentrated in Belgrade or Novi Sad. In these other cities, there are very few serious, large, state-owned cultural institutions, who would be tasked with doing these things. Of course it's all extremely expensive, demanding for the state, etc., but it's necessary. I'll pass on one of the local guys' anecdotes. When a cultural worker asked for a project from the president of the municipality back in the communist days, and this one answered that it was very expensive and said - that your culture was really expensive, and he replied - Mr. President, culture is expensive, but the culture is much more expensive. We really need to work much more on that plan, especially on the plan to preserve all those values. To be honest, I can't be surprised either with the Ministry of Culture or with all other institutions, why nothing is yet done to protect one of the best and most preserved medieval cities that we have on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is the town of Jelec near Novi Pazar. I'm calling on the minister to get to know him a little bit. There is no asphalt road, no access, and it is one of the oldest and most preserved, most mysterious medieval cities that we currently have in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and which is absolutely untapped, both in tourism and cultural potential. And you have as many places and examples as you want in our country. I think it would be extremely important, precisely in this requalification or media strategy, that we give these places that are a common hub of different cultures, different traditions, among different peoples, a special focus in the coming period, because in this way we will bring to life both the tourist and cultural places that are in a spiritual, cultural sense, extremely important for the Republic of Serbia, but also for the merger, understanding of different cultures, especially after these cultural destructions of the 1990s, which have made dams and alienated and captured different holders of cultural identity in some trenches. That's gotta break. We need to restore trust. This is especially achieved through cultural events, through cultural projects and the resuscitation of what is real culture, unlike what we have, unfortunately, as trends that come from all different sides, and especially to promote subcultural content and their impositions as some of the values given. Basically, these are contents that destroy or try to destroy what are the true cultural values of all peoples in the Republic of Serbia, as well as in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68718	Thank you. Professor Atlagic, you want a replica, as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68719	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, about what a colleague says, is exactly the essence of this law. In practice, we have certain institutions. When it comes to archives, we have 28, in a mass of cities down. The second thing is whether we are individually, as MPs, familiar with it or not. In all these archives, there is construction not for the identity of only the Serb people, I am in the introduction and said that all three laws are extremely important for the identity of the Serb people, other peoples and all national minorities. I found one charter in the Sombor archives, I looked all over the former Yugoslavia, but there I found it, for a certain non-Serbian nobleman. So, the archives are buildings, to simplify, to make it clearer for citizens, in which archival buildings are kept, to give use, etc., regardless of nationality. You have an extraordinary archive in Novi Pazar, but where the archival structure is more of a period of implementation, different periods, given the national structure. That's the point. And the users of the archive building are scientists of all nationalities. She's available to everyone. Where's the practical problem? The problem is that we have no university in Serbia, philosophical, archivistics as a special study. Archivists must be the most popular people in the country and the point. That's what every scientist in the world will tell you. Go to Austria, Germany, Constantinople, there are the most popular people, not only narrow specialities, archivists, but also other history, heraldics, sphragistics, Latin paleography, Slavic paleography. Ask how many archivists know that in our Serbia? We can count it on our fingers. Here, fellow advisor, I know he's been in business for many years, so, here, fellow counselor, I think Jaksic's last name, we had to take him, because nobody knows. Ask how many professors can read Latin paleography Slavic, Cyrillic paleography, and verb and ancient Slovenian Cyrillic? I'll name them on your fingers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68720	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Comrade Fehratovic, would you like a replica of Professor Atlagic's presentation? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68721	I thank the professor, and I agree with this part of the discussion about archives, archive research, etc. And I think that a really great research potential exists in all our archives, extremely valuable and insufficiently explored, and that if we were to explore everything that is an archival structure in all our archives, we would be very different to observe and understand all those processes that have been happening and that we are now living, and not just these archives. For us, archives are extremely important in Dubrovnik, Istanbul and Vienna, and so on, where, here from Russia, we return to a document, where there is still an extremely large and valuable document from these areas in Russia, starting with the Kulina Ban Charter, so in turn, it is all indisputable. We really need an expert of that kind. My discussion went in the direction of preservation and not just archaeological, but cultural treasures, like, say, the medieval town of Jelec, which is truly priceless treasure, I don't think it's anywhere else, no people in Europe, if it's so abandoned and alienated from both the state and all of us. Of course, when I talk about a joint presentation, I deliberately used Jelecus, but also, it would be normal for the state of Serbia to also archive the cultural heritage of all its citizens, regardless of its cultural, religious and other traditions. Unfortunately, we haven't had an example so far that the state has in any sense helped, let's say the restoration of Gaza's Isa-Bag Hama Pazara, as zero monuments, zero-value monuments or some other sacral cultural object belonging to another culture and nation. Yes, but lately, it seems to me in Novi Sad, Ban Jelačić's house, but it's also due to some different pressures of agreement and so on. What are common values, including this Hamam Gazi Isa-bay in Novi Pazar, as the founder of the city, I think they must be recognized by the ministry and by state institutions and also help with their restoration and further their preservation and conservation.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68722	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68723	Just for a little while, I'll look back on your words. I agree with you. Surely there are a large number of things in the region of archaeology and in the area of protection of material -- cultural heritage in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and from the angle from which you look at and from the widest possible angle, where an additional degree of protection is needed, but it is a matter of this kind of situation to see if something has been done. In Novi Pazar, when it comes to the Ministry of Culture, you are witnessing that we have helped not a small number of things. I don't want to count it all now. I was recently again, so we also promised to help with additional funds for research and gunpowder in Old Town in the centre of Novi Pazar, etc. Therefore, the truth is both. It is true that there are extremely high needs throughout Serbia's territory. We are happy to have such a rich archaeological and cultural heritage. Wherever, Malten, let's go with a little exaggeration, bury the Ash, you'll find some cultural – historical treasure. There's a lot of work to be done. It didn't cover everything. That is exactly what the preconditions and greater allocations for the culture budget are for and, of course, the co-operation of local self-government and the ministry, etc. and other experts. So I don't think it's on stage in any way that there's no good will missing, no direction towards solving some of the issues. It's just that there's a lot of work to be done, and there's more to be done. Therefore, I believe that in the next period of co-operation, especially in the extremely rich territory of Novi Pazar and the environment, which is certainly a place of meeting history and religion and one special feature of our cultural – historical panorama, we will be able to achieve new results and successes with additional resources and efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68724	Thank you, Minister. Fellow Fehratovic, would you like a replica of the presentation of Minister Vukosavljevic? (Yahja Fehratovic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68725	Just inspired by this work so far and by the beginnings of serious investment, my discussion went that way. Of course, what may have been 60, 70 years on the sidelines of any research, which is, I can say freely, the source of many identical values and the Bosniak and Serb people, is located in Sandzak space and not only the New Pazar, and in fact, many opportunities have been missed to preserve many other values that are unfortunately due to the lack of care, due to insufficient investment, have gone unrefundable. But what's left is really of the most important value to the Republic of Serbia, but also to all these peoples, and therefore, in the coming period, it really should put focus on that space. It is not just about archaeology medieval, but archaeology of a continuous growth and an example of joint co-existence through different cultural values and, of course, institutions dealing with not only local or republican levels, but institutions that are created in a scientific sense, which should help through different project financing such as the Mother of Bosniak, Bosniak culture, etc., which are ready to invest their credibility and everything else in order to get that ultimate picture of what our common life represents, the encounter of culture, tradition and the encounter of the society of everyone in the Balkans, and especially in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68726	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. Right to replication, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, authorised representative of the SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68727	Just two sentences. In global terms, we agree, but we must really say this for the sake of truth. In the previous period, socialistly, what you mentioned, few people, too, were researchers. The problem is with professional people, researchers who need to enter archives. You want me to name four men in Belgrade who enter scientific institutions? I won't, because I know I'm going to have a thousand attacks. We are missing, here, to be specific, I suppose, there is a colleague Dr Zukorlic, at the University of Novi Pazar to study archivistics that will train experts not only to study Bosniak but also Serbian. I wrote a paper on the area of the New Market district in 1945 – 1948, working both Muslims, i.e. Bosniaks and Serbs, which is 10 years old, in a magazine that is of exceptional value, the New Market Chamber. You have an extraordinary museum, an extraordinary archive, but the archivists who will direct the experts are not in Belgrade either. Unfortunately, Serbia is thin here, in general. I give criticism to my colleagues at philosophy colleges. I have the right to say that, and I'll tell you why, which is exactly 24 years old, when I came from the former homeland asking that at the state level they form at the time of postgraduate studies, doctoral studies, which will study all of these -- Latin, Slavic, Cyrillic, Muslim, and call it whatever you want, paleography, and heraldic. I want to see the Muslim nobles. I know who they are, not all of them, I'm involved in the team, but I'd like my colleagues and Bosniaks to do it. So in that sense, we lack experts. Find me an expert, college graduate, conservative and restarter of an archival building. My colleagues, there are none in the state. We don't have a student. I have the right to criticise, because I have proposed to all the departments of philosophy colleges in Serbia, to all the deans and all the rectors, and to write a magazine. I called them all back then. They'll never be forgiven in the future of a younger generation for not having those studies at these colleges today. That's the point, and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68728	Thank you, Professor. Comrade Zukorlic, you are mentioned during the presentation of Prof. Atlagic. You have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68729	I'm glad this subject is coming this way. We definitely mature and slowly overcome everything that has burdened us since before. So the Sandzak space is actually one of the spaces, as we've heard, differences over the last thousand years. Of course it's the people who will determine whether it's the point of impact or the point of encounter. Definitely, what brings me joy from these previous discussions, but also from the overall political discourse and our overall political co-operation is that we actually mature both politically and as a state to approach this space as a meeting space where we will look at all this diversity as a disbursed and book it as a common wealth and actually turn it into a resource for a different future. It is true that these are our shortcomings in scientific training for culture, including the aspect of archeology, archaeology, the aspect of research in certain archives. The archive of Istanbul is mentioned only for the area of Novi Pazar in kilometers of construction where knowledge of the Ottoman language is needed. It's not possible, for example, to miss it with an international university or an Islamic university in New Market that is self-financed, to do this job. It is necessary to involve the state, to create joint projects with the state because culture does not fall within those aspects of profitability. You can't do it either, you can't do it profitously, and that's why I agree that we actually approach this different in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture, in collaboration with other culture-related institutions, in collaboration, let's say, with the Faculty of Philology, Rentalistics, Osmanistism, where we have these opportunities to actually access these projects together and discover these treasures that, unfortunately, until they're known as if they don't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68730	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. Comrade Fehratovic, do you want a replica? (Yahja Fehratovic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68731	Thank you. I would agree with a respected colleague, Atlagic, in everything he said in the previous discussion when it comes to archival construction, archivistics, as well as with respected academic Zukorlic, but when he mentioned a socialist period and what it is due to their relationship with cultures that are in traditional heritage with our area, it is an exceptional cultural origin. In what way? In terms of destroying everything that was or was to be protected and preserved. I can't help but mention the Old Charsh in Novi Pazar, which was both bigger and prettier than, say, the Bash-Charcia in Sarajevo. Imagine what kind of cultural monster it is that allowed these 60s, 70s to be destroyed and turned into some kind of socialist, urban block, and that something that permanently spiritual wealth of all who were in that space would disappear forever, not to mention what tourism potential would mean to the Republic of Serbia at this moment mean to one such charm or such ambience. In addition, everything else that has been done with religious objects, which is done with all the faiths in these areas, which is only done, for example, with mosques in Novi Pazar in the communist period, that those who were five, six centuries old were literally destroyed, destroyed, justifying that they were old, that they were insecure, etc., and dangerous to the population, in terms of devastation and something else. That's why it was six, seven decades of destroying everything that meant the cultural, spiritual treasure of these spaces, and that's why right now the Ministry and the state are in a position to do much more work on these things, to preserve what they've survived and try to bring back some things that are really possible in any form to come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68732	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word has a folk MP, Snezana Boskovic Bogosavljevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68733	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People, three extremely important laws in the field of culture are here today. We do not often talk about culture, to encourage other seemingly more important topics, and we know that culture is a mirror of society and an important segment of the lives of each individual and every community. Culture and art essentially enrich our internal world, but their special importance is to contribute to the economic and overall contribution of every society's development. I therefore believe that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture is extremely important, because it, above all, carries out further harmonisation and further regulation of all important topics in this area, and is particularly important from the aspect of the precision of the framework for the implementation of our country's overall cultural policy. I'll remind you that the Culture Act is a roof, system law. It lays down the principles on which the general interest in culture is based, and there is no dilemma, culture is our common interest. We can say of this law that it is modern, modern, European, because it is in line with a number of conventions and other relevant documents of international organisations such as the UN, or UNESCO. There are new EU documents in the field of culture, such as the new European Culture Agenda 2018. No less important is the fact that this law is in line with the domestic general strategic definitions that have been established in some other areas of our country, such as: education and foreign policy. What I think is particularly important is that the proposal for this law clearly sets out areas of cultural action. It is good that, in this respect, high consensus has been reached in the professional public, to which the proposal, among other things, has been added as a special activity and an area of artistic photography. It is known that the budgets defined for the achievement of general interest in culture are limited and therefore I welcome the intention of the legislator to establish a legal framework that will be binding on cultural policy makers at all levels, so that the budgets identified for culture are spent in an extremely rational, planned, balanced and sustainable manner. In doing so, it is clear that the intention to provide safe and stable support for cultural activities that promote cultural needs, then, to promote and popularise cultural activities, secure and stable work of cultural institutions, protection and preservation of cultural heritage, and especially for the development of content and programmes for young people and children. One of the papers of the bill is defined criteria for assessing the importance of events that enter the domain of recognizable brands at local and central level, which is extremely important from the aspect of the development of cultural tourism, but continues to integrate cultural development into the overall general, socio-economic and political long-term development of our society. It is also important that the legislator's intention to integrate in the field of culture the modern achievements of information and communication technologies, by prescribing a legal framework for the development of all activities related to the digitisation of our cultural heritage. This is, by the way, extremely important, given that one of the strategic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in fact digitisation in achieving the visibility and availability of our cultural heritage, and in the function of achieving the objectives of our country's cultural policy. It should certainly also be mentioned that thanks to the support of the resolution ministry in the previous period several projects have already been implemented as examples of good practice in the presentation of our cultural heritage and with the help of modern technologies. By adopting the proposed law, there is no doubt that important assumptions are created to improve the overall state of culture, to develop new cultural content, to protect and preserve our cultural heritage, and especially to improve the conditions of work of our cultural institutions. When I mention our cultural institutions, I cannot help but mention the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art, which thanks to strong support, financial and any other Government of the Republic of Serbia, after many years last year were reopened for visitors. I am convinced that in the coming years we will be able to boast of new and good results in implementing our country's cultural policy. Of course, it is also worth the attention and commendation of the Bill on Archival Construction and Archival Activity, since it is a whole new bill, which aims to regulate and improve all segments of archival activity, and in particular to significantly improve the working conditions of the institutions that are the bearers of these activities. Finally, I would especially like to praise the law confirming the agreement between the governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, which is actually a prerequisite for fulfilling what we have long expected, which is the return of the 166th page of the Miroslav Gospel to the Republic of Serbia. This is an extremely important event for Serbia, as Miroslav's Gospel is the oldest preserved Serbian Cyrillic manuscript from the 12th century. It is written with a feather on the parchment and is today kept at the National Museum. By returning 166 pages, this document, which is undoubtedly of enormous and invaluable importance, will be completed and thus preserved for our future generations. Starting from everything mentioned and at the very end, I would like to point out in particular that the SPS parliamentary group will support all the cultural laws we are talking about today, confident that this is in the best interest of our citizens and our society as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68734	I thank my colleague Bogosavljevic Boskovic. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68735	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, it is a great pleasure and a good sign that the first meeting in 2020 begins with laws and discussions on education and culture. I'd like that attention to stay for a year and continue. I want you to continue in the next term, but if not for you to hand it over to your associates or those who will succeed you and that culture really is a very common guest in the National Assembly. It is clear that the priority in this country must be fiscal consolidation, the construction of the state, the standards of citizens, security, infrastructure, the rise of national security, and all of which will, of course, improve our culture, but culture cannot be stopped. We can't take a break now and say, let's make the state and society rich first, and then we'll deal with culture afterwards. We have to deal with culture all the time. Well, Mr. Minister, you said what culture is and what is material and immaterial heritage and sacral construction, contemporary creation, historical memory and a lot of things. But culture is made up of cultural workers, cultural aprons, but this beautiful and harmonious discussion, perhaps for a moment I will spoil it, often made up of those who are quasi cultural workers, who abuse culture, so today we are still in a situation that instead of on stage boards, in studios, in front of cameras, we have more of those who are on the political scene, not where they would be called artists or quasi artists. Of course, the ministry can't solve all this in addition to all its efforts and of course we still have very deep ties between those who did everything to destroy Serbian culture, to suck up money from Serbian culture, and today we have the rule of various clans both professional and financial. The other thing I want to draw attention to, even though it was important that I say this first, is something I should have started with. First, I would like to congratulate our colleague, the distinguished prima donna, the opera singer, Mrs. Jadranka Jovanovic, on the award she received a few days ago, "receive an international pair of operates" for 1919, imagine, awarded in the Republic of Italy. In the cradle of opera music, a Serbian woman is the best and greatest giant. Of course, it was recorded by all the Italian presses, the state television "Rai", but not a word in Serbian cultural media. No one wanted to notice. Why? Because he doesn't split the national flag, because he doesn't go and gossip about his country abroad, because he loves his country, because he's a patriot, because he's on the side of those where Hanke, who we talked about here, who loves Serbia, where Nenad Jedzic, is probably today the best actor they've ever thrown mud at every side just because he's been doing his job, because Mrs. Jadranka Jovanovic gave her name to the SNS, one of the policies she believes in whose head is Alexander Vukic. Now, these are her peas, and therefore the greatest Serb giant should not be seen in such a great reward that we should all be proud of together. I would agree with my young colleague, he is not here, but everything he said about "Mirdita - good day", which otherwise establishes "Center for Cultural Decontamination", as well as "Teret" and everything that happens in Serbian culture must be much more controlled. I have every grudge for everything that's been said. As far as the law on archival construction is concerned, I'd like to say thank God. That's where we heard a lot from Professor Atlagic, and that's why I didn't want to speak at first as board president just knowing that the professor is deeply and scientifically involved in these things, and it became clear to all of us that there is no historical memory without archival documents, that the brain of one state and one nation is actually an archival memory and archive. I only have one very significant example that might serve. We have an international agreement with none of the most friendly countries in Europe, it is Slovakia and this international agreement, you from the ministry certainly know it well, covering and cultural co-operation. I learned, as many Slovaks live in my environment, that the Slovak archives came with complete documentation, historical, cultural buildings of Slovakia, artistic objects, writings and, of course, all of this was given to the Slovak community in Serbia for protection and, of course, further attention. However, the cities of Komoran and Trnovec are former Serb municipalities in Slovakia, the Serbian Orthodox municipalities. We don't have a single document, we don't have any inventory, there are only buildings and memories because of two churches. We are missing there and there is no archive to prove that there were Serbs living there and that it was once our places, our cities and that there are many families that may be of Slovak origin. It's just one example of what happened to us with a friendly country, and what will happen and what can happen to the hostile environment, where we would very much like to disappear and to put an end to every Serbian citizen, every Serbian culture and all Serbian memories can only imagine. What is most important to me at this point, from my sight, is Miroslav's Gospel, twice the same sentence is mentioned here, I will repeat it the third time, in 2005 UNESCO placed the "Memory of the World" library in 120 of the most valuable works, as they say, created by human civilization, the Miroslav Gospel. If 9.5 billion people live in the world, all 120 works exist in these top civilizations. One of these works is a Serbian Cyrillic letter. That nothing else in our history has been done that we have become part of the great world and no one can say that we are a small nation. The path of this greatest relic is indeed the path of both the Serbian people and the entire Serbian state and all the movements in the Balkans. The gospel has traveled from the White Field to Belgrade 15 thousand kilometers, not to believe. All the important figures that have had contact with the Gospel have been recorded historically precisely because of this, from Prince Miroslav, Saint Sava, and Nemanje, who carries the Gospel to Hilandar, where they first worship exactly that of the Gospel to Alexander Obrenović, who comes to the Gospel by walking through Emperor Dusan. It's not a coincidence, although maybe someone will accuse me of being a mystic now. But in May's coup, when Alexander Obrenovic and Queen Draga were killed, the gospel of Miroslav disappeared. Eleven years ago, no one knew where he was and it appeared in 1914 at the most difficult times for the Serbian people. It appears in King Peter's coffin. He passes through all the Serbian googot, goes to Corfu, returns from there and thanks to Prince Paul, who instead of being put in a museum in the National Library of the Gospels did not burn in the famous bombing. That's where God probably played his part. It's later taken to the Rach monastery. There were many who knew there was a treasure in the rat monastery, but they didn't know it was a treasure book. A tour of the Raca monastery preserved the Gospel of Miroslav. What's also interesting, the 166th page in the Petersburg Library, is a page that you don't believe, talks about John the Baptist. We're just on the day, i.e. On the second day of John the Baptist, we are talking about this subject. In the end, I would say that the role of this government, the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic, is the role of all of you who participate in this, precisely the role of putting themselves in order, from Prince Miroslav, to St. Sava, to Obrenović, Karadjordjevic, of all the greats whom Miroslav's Gospel has shown the way, and to us MPs that we have done nothing in our mandate and that no law we have passed is later righteous as good or as positive. This will be an act that we will be able to boast in front of our grandchildren and before the generation that we participated in finally completing the Gospel of Miroslav. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68736	I thank my colleague Krlic. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68737	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Vukosavljevic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the laws that we find before us today show that we mature as a society and that we actually understand the importance of culture for our children, young people, but above all for the development of society and economy as a whole. These laws will set out the frameworks for implementing our country's overall cultural policy. Our country is known for a number of events around people around the world. These laws will define criteria to assess the importance of these events, to determine what events are of importance, both locally and centrally, and thus develop cultural tourism as one way to integrate culture into social economic development. A large number of foreign tourists visit different museum settings each year, visit cultural historical monuments. We have a truly great historical and cultural heritage. We are also witnessing that part of cultural tourism includes events, such as "Guce", "Exita", such as the Marine Abramovic exhibition, etc. So there's something for each of us. So, we have something to brag about, and I would agree with the minister that these are certainly not inappropriate content at national frequencies in the "prime time" but this is not a topic today. I would remind you that the National Museum has been reopened in this term. After 15 years, it was reconstructed and finally, as the minister said then, was finally returned to the citizens of Serbia. It is important that we work on a constant improvement in the preservation of cultural heritage. I would first and foremost agree with my colleague Snow White, who spoke of the cultural and historical heritage with KIM, about our sanctities in Montenegro, but I would not repeat myself, because she explained it very well. What is important today for culture and for these laws that are ahead of us, is the use of information communication technologies in the field of culture. In this term of government we've heard a lot about digitization, it's quite implemented right into education and I'm glad that it's finally come and turn to culture. It is before us, with regard to the draft law on archival construction that will ensure full protection and preservation of the archival building, regardless of the form in which it arises. This is very important for the development of consciousness, when we talk about generations that are coming, that is, awareness that the most important documents must be protected from destruction. Also, this law will establish the archive fund of the Republic of Serbia. What makes me very happy is that the Republic of Serbia will confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the handover of the list of the Miroslav Gospel to the Republic of Serbia and the handover of pictures of Nikolai Rerich to the Russian Federation. Except that this agreement brings multiple benefits to the development of culture, to the development of the museum itself and to the preservation of cultural heritage, it also shows our very good relations with Russia and our very good foreign policy. The Peaceful Gospel has been found to be culturally beneficial. I'm just going to quote what's said, and that's the zero point of Serbian cultural history and the living preciousness that deeply pervades the overall national identity and common historical memory, and it is indeed true. The number 166 list belonging to UNESCO "The Memory of the World" will be returned to Serbia. It will be found in our museum, and pictures of Nikolai Rerich will be returned to the Russian Federation and will complete the collection of the future Russian museum. So, as I've already said, it shows significant friendships with us friendly Russia. The laws ahead of us are very good. They're welcome. We will vote for them positively for all the laws, because we have seen that both Minister Vukosavljevic and the Ministry of Culture and Information and the Government of the Republic of Serbia invests as much as possible in a culture that is increasingly important to us today. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will support all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68738	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68739	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues from the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are facing amendments and amendments to the law on culture, and as far as can be seen from this material, are one serious step in bringing European standards closer to achieving interest in the area of culture on the one hand, but also achieving a legal framework for the implementation of our country's overall cultural policy. Given that the application of the provisions of this law also has this international character, principles and the Law on Culture are in line with a number of conventions signed by the Republic of Serbia, I would not like to list all these conventions. In particular, I would point out the provisions relating to the protection and preservation of cultural heritage, in particular the proposed amendment of Article 8 of the applicable law in points 9 to 12, in particular any area of protection and protection of immovable cultural goods, movable cultural goods, immaterial cultural heritage and library-informative activity with particular reference to that section concerning digitisation. In any case, given that cultural heritage is a constitutional category, what should not be ignored is the importance of the cultural heritage of a country in terms of raising tourism potential. What is the significance of this change of law also says that the area of cultural heritage, believe it or not, as far as the public is concerned above all, is still regulated by the 1994 Cultural Goods Act, if I am not mistaken. By passing these laws after 25 years, the cultural heritage protection service will focus on cultural activities. Given that for more than 15 years, more specifically since 2004, the Republic of Serbia has, when it stopped funding for the protection of monuments of culture and archives, these institutions that carry out action of general interest do not have a resolved status regarding the exercise of founding rights and funding. Today we have a situation where these institutions are financed by certain cities, local self-government, and that they are active in the territory of several units of local self-government. In this way, the legacy in smaller municipalities and cultural heritage is neglected and left behind. As an example, I can especially point out that this applies to border municipalities on the edge and east of Serbia. With the proposed amendment of the law, Article 25 of the current law, I apologize, on culture, for the institutions that carry out the work of protecting immovable cultural goods and the activity of protecting archival construction are founded by the Republic of Serbia, but the founder can be both the AP and the units of local self-government. Also, the proposed changes will allow the financing of a single network of protection facilities, which will certainly contribute to better insight into their work and control at the end. I believe that there is a need to give a positive assessment and provisions of the laws relating to the field of digitalisation of cultural heritage, which determines the obligation to use unique software solutions. The introduction of digital registers in all domains of culture will contribute to the creation of a unique system for the use of cultural heritage. We of the SDPS advocate culture as a national goal, that everyone should have access to culture and everyone's culture should be available to Serbian citizens. We also advocate greater investment in culture, creating cultural infrastructure and connecting cultural institutions with others, primarily tourism and economic content. At the beginning of his presentation, the minister said that special events had already become the brand of the Republic of Serbia, such as "Exit" festival, "Sabor" in Guca, "Nishville", "Jaze" festival, and so on. In voting day, the SDPS will support a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68740	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word is made by MP Jadranka Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68741	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, MPs and respected ministers with associates, as a member of the Committee on Culture and Information at the very last meeting we really had, not only speak for myself, but also on behalf of all those present then, with great approval and joy we received these united proposals from our Government and the Ministry of Culture. So the law on amendments to the Law on Culture is very important, necessary, there have been many words about it. This second proposal is extremely important for each country, so the law on archival construction and archives, and we have been informed about our problem so far with which this collection of archival buildings has met not only material problems but archiving, storage, and thanks to Mr. Jaksic, we have learned that at this point about 150 kilometers, if I understand correctly, the material should be processed, stored and simply united as one base for our country. Here I will be able to reach out and thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, Mr Mirko Krlić, for this public congratulatory, warm and cordial card he sent me. But why here? Because believe me, honestly, the purest thing I'm saying is, it wasn't important to write about this award in our country, because there was enough and very important writing in Italy. It may, perhaps, be just one day just as a small, small crumb for a future archival structure and for some future generations, because in one group of the world's largest opera singers, there was also a Serbian woman, the first Serbian woman in 2019, who, apart from her basic performance, had a gift along with all the world's great singers, as well as a hearing of raising the quality and affirmation of the opera. In that year 2019, exactly the year Serbia and Italy marked 140 years of diplomatic relations, and therefore I believe it will be a small detail. In any case, thank you all for your congratulations, and I would like to point out that this Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation certainly serves us all the honor and certainly joins Mr Krlić, that we felt and felt extremely and honored, the Agreement on the Exchange of Cultural Goods and the Return of this 166 list of Miroslav's Gospel. I, as someone who, personally by his name and last name, as a non-partisan person and complete with my biography of art, supported personally President Alexander Vukic, I am really proud that he did this, because we have been informed that many and many decades ago have tried, tried to reach this point, but here I am proud that it was just President Vukic who was able to realize it. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Culture, I would just like to mention a few things, which is very good and I'm glad there are a lot of good things in these proposals. Let's say I remind you that just a few months ago, I myself pointed out the problem of ballet players and ballet art in general, and that at that time we explained the discrepancy between going into retirement and opportunities, the physical possibilities that follow ballet art. The ballet art is the art of young people, the aesthetics of young people, and then I asked, and you were also personally a team for the interview, and also directed from the Assembly to call and request Prime Minister Brnabic, the government and other ministers to do something about it. I have to say, that's how it's done. It's very fast and it's taken. The action was taken, so it was not a problem, as it seemed to you for decades, but our government faced a serious legal problem directly, courageously, clearly. The problem has been solved, 16 young ballet players received, the problem has been solved, but for practically a few years in advance. So it's very good that these change and complement, for example, relationships, and not only on ballet players, but also on folklore, to the players of our wonderful, fantastic "Cola", and what will be regulated and actually put into the legal framework. I would also like to say that I am very glad that the problem of independent artists was found on this list, because just over three years ago a serious, incredible and very dramatic problem appeared for all those who are independent artists, which is that at one point, due to the failure to pay contributions or delays of these contributions, and the accumulated interest team of artists at one point in the long term were not able to verify their health books for themselves, nor for members of their family, nor for their children who were sick, of course small children. At the time, I was not an MP, but only as Vice-President of the Cultural Educational Community, we addressed, and Secretary General Živorad Ijdačić, as well as Professor Rusalic, who at that time co-ordinator of the art associations, received huge assistance from then-Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. That's what you don't know and it's my duty to announce it, because personally, with the sole commitment of the Prime Minister at the time, we've had several serious meetings with, that I'm not taking up time now, with all the relevant ministries and we've found, the government has made a decision, it's found a solution that's written off the interest, and the debt has been reprogrammed for five years. I mean, it's very important that every problem, and this one, is solved by these very proposals, so it's put in one legal framework and that we can move freely by it, but again within the limits of the law. While I have already mentioned the Cultural and Educational Community, let me express my great surprise that it is possible for the Cultural and Educational Communities not to be in Article 21a, and, according to Article 6(13), that it is not mentioned as an institution that requires special attention and special care to be shown, along with, say, other institutions, such as Kolarc's responsibilities, Matica Serbian, Serbian Academy of Science and Art, Vuk's responsibilities, Zakupina Dositeja Obradovica, when just the Cultural and Educational Community, which has existed since 1955, had this significance until 2002 and the draft was also envisaged. I'm asking if you can tell me what happened. How is it possible that she's not here now, when she's also one of the founders of exactly the Vuk's task force, the Obradovic Liaison Service? One more thing I noticed, and here I thank the experienced Radicals MP Natasa Jovanovic, who selflessly shared her observation with me, we noticed that when the areas of cultural activity were listed, there was no opera art. He's got ballet, he's got stage, he's got musical art. Now I have to explain a little bit, with two aspects, why opera art is important to be singled out. First, after ballet, after ballet art that requires the most physical spending, right behind ballet art is opera art. Identically as athletes, opera artists use their body and serious physical strength, condition, default daily exercise, use of their own body, scientists calculate that in one hour the same number of calories are spent in the opera’s large roles as one miner in the pit spends his calories digging coal. So, opera art uses its body, not to mention seriously destroying its own body during the profession, which is why we have a well-fused internship, as well as ballet players, not to mention some details that the air poles that we have at the projection of each ton seriously disrupt our blood vessels, vessels in the brain, that the pressure that the diaphragm carries on our internal organs, therefore, is all a profession that is not known or very superficially what it carries with it. It's on one side. So, engagement physically that leans, unlike acting and drama, on ballet. The other aspect concerns the importance and understanding and universality of opera, as well as ballet art, as well as painting, which language is universal, therefore, important for one country, for every country, because that language is understood throughout the world, while drama, acting is locally related to the word, for understanding. So, given this, I'd like to know how and why the opera is left out of this list, because it's safe, we have two operas, Belgrade and New Zealand, and we expect and we hope that there will be others, and I think this is important for future generations, too, to know, to be clear, with an apology for being extensive, but I think this is the first and unique moment to explain what all the characteristics are. You know, when a singer is said, that's not what I'm going to say now, but an opera singer has to practice every day as well as a tennis player, and that has to be meant when talking about these areas, that's what works. Now I want to say one more thing, risking no one agreeing with me, which is not even a problem, because it's not mine to approve of what others think, but it's my job to follow myself and say what I think, but risking saying this, I think you'll probably all attack me, which is also not a problem, and that's -- it's about the culture budget. I don't think that this budget is so small, that it fits and is in harmony with our country's economic situation, which we know was what it was like and that these parameters move accordingly. And I, as an artist, especially after 2000, was in the situation of economics and that I invested my own money abroad in projects that I had designed and that I took great care of every dinar, how much sala, how much all the other costs, because of course I expected that money to come back to me, and I was coming back through tickets, so I did market and very well and I personally know how to feel well within what you have, I'm talking about material, and how creative you can use your own to what might be a modest material piece of work is very rich. I'm not saying it's always possible, but it's possible. That's why I wanted to make my point that I don't think that money is small, but it's for discussion of how this money is being deployed, it's already a topic for discussion. I beg you, Minister, and all future ministers and all those who will participate in all commissions and put people in committees, we are a small community of artistic and more or less we all know each other. We also have some opinions, if we don't know each other personally, about each other. We know very well who is who and what, we know very well who does not live by your system, and you know very well who is the greatest part of your aspirations for some of the general interests. I ask you, all those who decide in the future on these commissions, that such men, Reverend, and there they are, are elected to these commissions. I end up, again through this discussion I inspired myself to say something that wasn't my intention, and it applies to those who, as a mantra, repeat that they are elite, and unlike those who aren't, and those who don't turn out to be most of us sitting here right now, I mean, of course, MP benches, and especially this place where I sit and more especially those public figures and individuals who dare in any way not to support, but even cooperate with their government and in any way express their opinion and support this government and the majority party. I would just like some of them, to direct them perhaps to look at our very own, meeting of our Committee on Culture and Information last, which was of course recorded and to listen to doctoral dissertation in three minutes, which is very difficult for Professor Atlagic. So in three minutes. This way, not from the head, as he has read now, but from the head of an archival structure. It's an elite for me. I want to express my deepest and deepest admiration for Professor Atlagic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68742	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word has a minister of culture and information Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68743	Here's just a brief review of a few things you've asked a question. So, when it comes to the cultural and educational community, in the process of harmonising these amendments and supplementing the Culture Act was a public debate, there were meetings of the Committee on Culture, there were various other circumstances, the participation of all interested entities. Simply that thing was on the border line, therefore it was not ignored and you were involved in the process and Mr. Idačić was a participant in the process, so there was a situation that could still change. This can also be resolved by the amendment, which we have reached some agreement on, but simply, as the law says, it is mainly about institutions whose duration goes back to the beginnings of the reconstruction of the modern Serbian state or so on. traditional institutions and their derivatives. What are derivatives? These are Vukov and Dosite's duties, as the figures of Vuk and Dosite, as it stands in the text of this law, begin in the beginning of the reconstruction of the modern Serbian state. This was the criterion for which the institutions and institutions were mentioned, the names listed and covered by this solution. It is certainly possible to affirm the position and that the cultural and educational community with no small merit for various activities over the last 60 and over years should be found there, but I remind you that the Ministry of Culture was not the only subject in the process of considering and deciding such matters. Let me get this straight. I think there's room to be in the next two days through the amendment that's going to be proposed that thing looks at the shade differently. It's a shade, so it's not a completely different view, it's a shade, and it's a different solution. As for the opera. You're right when you say that the opera isn't explicitly listed as an opera, but it's under music, i.e. creativity, production and interpretation, so other areas related to interpretation, artistic music and the like can take a similar attitude. When it comes to the unquestionable physical and mental efforts that are needed for this kind of performance, I have nothing to add but agree with you, but similar things are hard and actors, depending on what kind of act they do both in and in what way they are. So, the opera isn't explicitly mentioned, but it's under music interpretation. One more thing, when it comes to ballet players and the art game. The tendency of these amendments and the addition of the laws included that category of artists who had already treated the Law on PIO according to a specific specificity where, also clearly established and described earlier, society as a whole was defined for the fact that ballet players and the artistic game had recognized strong specificities regarding their artistic personality, so through this law, through these changes and additions this thing was introduced only in the Culture Act. I fully believe that given the things that you have stated and such a matter can be considered in some future rapid change and addition of the Law on Culture, what it is necessary to create a broader social consensus that includes MPs in culture, the Committee on Culture of the Serbian Parliament, a public debate and participants and representatives from other fields of performing arts and culture in the broadest sense. Surely, as far as I'm concerned, although it's irrelevant to this kind of exchange of views, I would support such a thing, but it's not a matter of the good will of a minister, it's an incentive of a commitment. But anyway, I think there's a good place to approach it the way you described it in the future. When it comes to your assessment that the budget is not small, of course it is not small. Nobody said that. However, budgets can, I'm talking about the culture budget, be able to observe conditionally or unconditionally. The money that the state separates for culture in terms of our country's economic situation is not small money, but whenever we speak, even in today's session on whether it's a budget, nobody here has said that the budget is small, it's said that the budget should be bigger, which is not exactly the same thing, but when we talk about it, we have to refer to ourselves and observe the principle under which other countries in the world, how much they separate from their own culture budgets. With this in mind, if it is also seen on the recommendation of the Union that one percent for culture alone, not for information, just for culture, it is a recommendation, it is not a commitment, it is not an organisation that can impose such things, but after a long number of years of study, there was one assumption that sustainable cultural development needed according to the position of UNESCO, one percent. Whether it is an ideal estimate or not remains to be seen, but we have largely taken into account that fact and that assumption and some other countries that Serbia can compare with, because regardless of what the country's budget is, whether it's a hundred or a thousand dinars or ten thousand dinars, the percentage is a relative thing. Finally, as you call it, the distribution of money, certainly it's an eternal topic, it's evergrin's theme, because with us the important simplifications of what I have to say, for the purposes of this discussion, there's one principle that is, if I get the money in the ministry's competition, the commission has been resonating and deciding correctly. If I didn't win, the commission wasn't thinking right. They repeat the third time, to simplify, but simply it is a kind of personality of our cultural public. Every time people decide on certain things, that is, the financial or other fate of third parties, there are certainly no ideal arches, and it is certain that there are no ideal people and there are certain that there are no ideal situations, that any solution can be respected by some lack or someone perhaps for a shade or two insights of a situation that is weaker than ideal. You said, that's your point of view, that you advocated that honorable people, I quote, be on committees. I also think that so far, at least as far as I'm concerned, and when I was invited to ask myself that, and otherwise, honorable people sat on committees of the Ministry of Culture, because I would never dare to do a job that I would consider to be part of the work of some people who are not covered by the notion of honorable people. Therefore, I think that there are now honorable people, but I agree with you that it is always important to take care that professionals from your area, or if not professionals, of the people who decide for the area in question on behalf of the state, and also on behalf of the Ministry of Culture, are competent and generally recognised in the social community or the narrow community in culture as people who understand themselves in this business. Of course, I will repeat the essence of what I want to say about competitions and the distribution of funds, never enough fairness and never enough honest people to deal with it, but I think that we are generally viewed by margin errors, because mistakes are always possible and subjective considerations are always possible, we have no great reason to joke on the composition of committees of the Ministry of Culture which have decided on a very sensitive issue of distribution of funds and hope that in the future it will remain so. So, I think for most of the things you've looked back on, I've now been commenting on, but if I missed something, you remind me, I'd be happy to add something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68744	Thank you, Minister. The People's MPs of Natasha Sp reported on the replica. Jovanovic and MP Jadranka Jovanovic. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, a replica of the exhibition of counterpart Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68745	I will answer to my colleague Jovanovic, but it will also be a good basis for the minister to understand, as well as the people who wrote this law to him, on behalf of the ministry, where they were wrong. The argument presented by the colleague and which we have noticed together is absolutely correct. That is the case, the competitions announced by the Ministry of Culture, as well as the stage interpretation of which the opera is involved, say, as a special cultural activity. That's not all you did wrong, Mr. Minister. The full of inaccuracy and uncertainty is Article 8, and the MPs of the SRS and myself will talk about it personally, when it comes to reviewing the law in particular. This was an opportunity, if you had already entered into an amendment and an addition to the law, that absolutely all the mistakes that had occurred before and which had not been corrected, without your associates, which is their right, were suppling, but also to justify what is here not in the domain, I would not say ignorance, but some mistakes that we can say, of a technical nature. But basically, now it's not right. We'll also have a story about the people's game being only a part of folklore. Can we agree on that? People's game is part of folklore, and you have defined the folk game as a special cultural activity. So what is generally recognised cultural activity in terms of terms, and not to mention all these aspects of which the colleague talked about, is also an opera, as a special and, of course, folklore, as a broader context which certainly had to have more attention, and I will also give further arguments in my explanation for which, because it is very important, both ethnic and cultural and whatever legacy you want, not only Serbian, but all the other communities that live in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68746	Thank you. Col. Jovanovic, you want a replica of Mr. Minister's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68747	I'll try to remember everything you said, but I'll start with these commissions. You said-- professional people. It's not just about expertise. Each expert must possess one intelligence that guides him, when it comes to art, and an analysis of his own gift through which, therefore, he must be gifted to be able to assess the other across from himself and not just evaluate him, to be a far-reaching step in the future, to be innovative, to have his criteria special, united. When I said perhaps a word - honorably, coupled with the maximum sense of justice that always rests on both the common good and which excludes, as far as possible, I accept that it is difficult, any subjectivity. So if I don't like someone, and there are people like that, I don't want to take away those qualities that they have. Few people in this Serbia of ours will meet without them really living like that. Maybe it's declarative. But if they really cared, because of themselves, that no one must ever know on the globe, that they care, that they are honorable to themselves in such a way that they do not take away the qualities of those who are simply not on their own, simply, are not likable and do not even share his beliefs, any. But they have certain qualities. That's why I said that for every commission, as well as for everyone in life, intelligence is the first thing. As far as the budget is concerned, you are calling for recommendations and how other countries, what other countries have determined. We can also refer to the economy of these other countries. Oh, never mind. Okay, but with my views and attitudes, I still have to say that we are aware of the state of our country and what happened to our economy. When I said I didn't think those funds were small, I think whatever they were, whatever they were characterized, that we should be satisfied with what we had. (President: Thank you, colleague. ) It is primarily one philosophy of life, that you move within a possible framework. Because I'm sure someone with a lot more information and information worrys, decides, thinks, doesn't sleep at night, for example, what I would do, and what I did and what I do and you and everyone with my salaries and my budget. Third, the relationship of opera singers...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68748	Thank you, two minutes are up. The word has a minister, Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68749	I get the impression we're talking about the same phenomenon from two different angles. So I don't dispute that the money he has to manage domestically and with maximum goodwill and with all possible capacities that would allow for some sum of ypsilon to be distributed as justly as possible. It's undeniable. No need to think the same way at all costs, but I just agree with that point of view. But it wasn't the subject the way I understood it, which is possible that it was my fault. So it doesn't matter if the countries compare in relation to the level of the budget. Burkina Faso, without wanting to insult a friendly country, can have $10 gross-national income, if it separates 10 cents or one cent, so arithmetic doesn't fool me, then it's 1%, and Norway has 10 million of something, if it separates 1%, it's going to be different. So it's not about the absolute amount, it's about the percentage amount. I also stressed that I still believe that the principle of life in both politics and society is such that countries look to one another, as regards the adoption of laws, regarding the degree of democracy, on other matters. So it's nothing new and I don't believe there's any disagreement about it. Regarding what my colleague Jovanovic said, this is exactly the kind of debate, that is, a later story about it, and it serves to correct certain details... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: And amendments. And change, of course. So, you know how, now it's listed here as a folk game, folklore, it's certainly a concept that's a broader concept because it includes also singing, because it includes some other things. If under interpretation you can give a special marriage to opera art, I believe so. Therefore, we are not indistinguishable, we are inclined to accept all those observations and analyses that show up. This isn't the town of Varadin, this isn't carved into stone. You're right when you say that it's possible and that it's not exactly an honor to someone, but to us, by some technical failure, we haven't approached each of these things in enough detail. Thus, there is room for what we can correct or supplement in a way that is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68750	Thank you, Minister. Dear Members of the People, we will now comply with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15.25 hours. My colleague Jovanovic, you signed up for the replica. You can continue after your break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68751	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have looked, first of all, at the amendment to the Law on Culture and the New Law on Archival Construction. Our parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments. You'll see that they're essential, and also because we've noticed that some language errors have been made. We Serbian radicals really want every law to be clear in the spirit of Serbian language, because you here in amending and supplementing the law, too, to point out what is very important to all citizens of Serbian nationality, to respect Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. As for the very Law on Culture itself, our objections to the basic law, when it was this dossowic, yellow power, failed, were in a sense that we would do it all differently and more pronouncedly. The Serbian Radical Party believes that it does not need any models, let alone in countries that are hostile to Serbia, such as EU countries, that through some internationalisation of what members of the law, which examples they have in practice, we are looking for a model for culture, because the cultural model of the Serbian people dates back to the time of Germany. If Nemanjeci wanted to round up the Serbian state as a whole, to establish an auto-kepal Serbian Orthodox church, to establish values as the best examples for future generations, then why should we now not apply all these models to today, here, conditionally speaking, modern time, and be a model of thinking for anyone who wants to deal, to follow, to study culture and for future generations? We have many scandals from the immediate past, Mr. Minister, which I really must mention today. That's what our authorised representative, Mr. Seselj, was talking about, but there are still many such examples. First of all, why does the state of Serbia, namely the Ministry of Culture, not take a clear view when it comes to promoting traditional, precisely those, ever since then, and later, through the centuries, the brightest cultural values this country has? We can't accept at all the way the funds for individual manifestations are distributed. We are explicitly against this member that you are now proposing in the Law on Culture, where cultural events and festivals of the highest importance can be declared at the proposal of local self-government, autonomous province or the Serbian government. It must be established by law. It can't be from chance to opportunity and if someone's going to start that initiative, if it won't and who's going to do it afterwards, maybe it's you again or after you to decide, you know. If something is of traditional value, such as the Vuk's Assembly in Trsic, such as the Mokranjce days, such as Desanka's days, such as the Days of Dis, such as the days where the heroism of our ancestors is promoted in the first Serbian uprising, such as all these other manifestations, please, it is incomprehensible that we now need to establish a principle by which someone who is going to sit from, frankly, bureaucrats, in the end, to determine and what is national and what is not. The Serbian Radical Party is explicitly against the financing of EXIT with any state money. It is simply a novelty in the context of observing overall thinking from the west, and these are ways of buying, their way of celebrating, which is contrary to all traditional Serbian values. We should give it up. If it's a private company and they say they have income and if someone loves it and if it's a modern age, let them finance it. By contrast, we passed the Law last year, it seems to me, not to say the preceding, on the Serbian literary association and we are not satisfied, Mr. Minister, with the amount financed by the Serbian Literature Association. That's one aspect. This could have been more in their favor, and you could have abolished all this anti-Serbian funding of networked Western agents, NGOs promoting here, and all of it headed by your predecessor Tasovac, Mirdita, in downtown Belgrade. It is indeed a scandal and, ultimately, humiliation and Serbian victims, blasphemy on our sanctity, on the cradle of Serbia and on everything that should be a bright example for everyone and who deals with politics and who is in the field of culture at all. As for these ways of funding certain projects, I now have to make only one parallel and give an example. When the film financing scenario in the Cultural Centre of Serbia came, now not to mention, not to promote this author, because you know who, as well as the general public, film about the famous Chetnic General, leader of the largest anti-fascist Chetnic movement, Draža Mihailovic, they said they did not like the script. Listen, they don't like the scenario that's closest to authentic events and everything that Draža Mihailovic, who was executed in such a masculine manner by the communists, experienced with his comrades. Now I need you to convince each and every one of us in the SRS that tomorrow someone will be fairer if a similar project comes to mind with members of that same commission? Here in cultural terms, here you are, almost a few days ago at the festival at Mr. Kusturica, Kustendorf, which now has a higher dimension. Contrary to what he stands for and what is the right attitude, promoting by these enemies of the Serb people everything that has nothing to do with Serbian film, Serbian music, or Serbian ethno-folkloric heritage, which is accepted and comes through the pores of society in a very dangerous way. That's not good. The state of Serbia, therefore and your ministry, should take a clear stance and say -- I don't need to look back, nor subject to the influences of those who are enemies of the Serbian people, who when Botoric brought a cinema to Belgrade and when the movie "With Faith in God" was made, which is indeed a masterpiece of that time, in the '30s, in Hollywood did not know that they were making such a movie. So, that we don't have so much resources and opportunities to make our real Serbian authors, who wants to promote both our tradition and our history, and that in a realistic way they look at all of these difficulties from our recent past, that's one aspect, and that it's still accelerating the money from the budget and that those that are hostile propaganda spread, as Goran Markovic's movie is already mentioned here, where in one monologue, actor Gordan Kicic says that Serbs are a crazy people who terrorise everyone in the Balkans. Well, should we allow that, Mr. Minister? So don't let me finish the speech in this spirit now, so all that these pro-Western agents are receiving into projects that will give heritage, promote what is our cultural heritage, and help and our culture that has this spiritual dimension, such as helping to illuminate the Gradac monastery, which is now truly in one full splendor and brightness, as anything else it takes to preserve Serbia's national identity, and to give up everything that is directed against Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68753	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Mrs. Jadranka Jovanovic has a replica from earlier, so we will give the word to Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68754	Thank you. We just broke up on the break, when I just wanted to remind myself, to explain, for the sake of the public, the relationship between the acting profession and the opera profession, which I didn't talk about personally, and no matter what I think privately, this is not about private opinion or actors, or opera singers, but about what has been scientifically proven, scientifically assessed by evidence and analysis done by experts and which exist as such. So, as opera art is worth, and what are the difficulties when it comes to opera art, of course, given that I know myself, as someone who is on stage, what are the requirements of an actor, or an actor on boards, more and more today with these directors, that I'm not talking about the movie Ali, for the sake of the public, just a brief explanation, while the actor, if he accidentally forgets the text or hugs or coughs, can stop, to stop, the opera singer has a rhythm, a tune, an orchestra, a text, can't happen to him, because time flows both his art and his gift must be placed to a certain extent that is limited from all sides. I keep looking at this watch, because I realized I only have a minute. So, that's my explanation. Plus that between the two wars, an opera champion, let's say, at the National Theatre, was far more valuable than the drama champion in terms of wages, and, of course, the benefits of work. It's something that's been lost all these years and I don't stand for it, it's a wonderful unique opportunity, and for me, to make a complete defense of opera singer and opera art and all those choirs, orchestras, conductors, directors, choreographers, costumeographers, really, and it gives us a common opportunity to put them honestly and honorably in the place that belongs to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68755	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68756	Thank you. Just a brief review of Mrs Jovanovic's folk letter. So, I have nothing to say that would disagree with your conviction, except for the technical matter. So there was an opportunity and there would be an opportunity for you to express the characteristics of opera art to accentuate and step up in some law through or through its amendment or supplementation or through the acceptance of an amendment, etc., but this is not an arbitration decision by a minister, but rather the result of some public debate and some general consensus or more or less achieved consensus in the field of culture. So, as far as the Ministry of Culture and Information is concerned, we are absolutely not an obstacle to such insight into things in the new light and in new circumstances, we will already be an ally in this business, because it is also in our interest that those specificities and personalities that exist, which are not arbitrary or resulting from an individual attitude, aphirmic and find their reflex in some legal text. As I said in my previous dialogue with you, this is a solution proposed in this legal text, and it is a ballet player and an art game, as a result of another previous, analogous state of affairs concerning the Pension Insurance Act, where it is recognised as one thing that exists, and then this law is accompanied by it. It's a slower way. This initiative of yours, I believe, will come, in fact, I'm sure of the strong support of the Ministry of Culture, but let's do it together in the way and in the ways that law and procedure requires. We're in the same boat, so to speak, if I may allow myself the freedom of such figurative expression. As for the brief reference to the presentation of Mrs Jovanovic's folk letter, just some small specs, and then I'll say what I think is the essence, and what you said is what you said. The Ministry of Culture and Information does not finance the festival "Exit". Whether it's good or bad, I don't want to judge this opportunity, but simply, it's not in our funding department. When it comes to the Serbian Literature Association, I agree, never enough, but we have received, I am not boasting of this now, just saying that both Mr Milovan Danojlic and other people who manage the Serbian literary cooperative have recently received one thanks for the help we have provided. The Serbian literary cooperative is such a monument to Serbia's cultural history that there is simply no such means available for all of this to be valorised in this way through funding, but it seems to me that there is a sustainable and visible progress in the position of the Ministry of Culture and according to the Serbian literary community and according to the Matica Serbian and other important institutions and institutions of Serbian culture which, I would say, are of transistor importance. When it comes to the principles that you stand for, we have just been guided by a logic relating to the overall examination of things, which you do, a draft strategy of cultural development, where we have defined in preamble what these dimensions of Serbian culture are in historical terms, because if today's assembly of MPs or today's meeting of the ministry is about something by some criteria, it doesn't have to be necessary tomorrow. Things can change and depend, say, on the current intellectual mode of a short period of five years, ten years or so. But if one society has a strategy for cultural development, that strategy is based on definition, only to define what Serbian culture is and what is Serbian cultural policy, then many of the doubts over time must be removed. And this is exactly the preamble of certain circles, I'm talking about the preamble itself, not for no reason, because those who deal with different logics than that have accurately noticed the meaning of strategic definitions, because if you define the dimensions of Serbian culture, then it is known what Serbian culture is in its essence and what is the object of protecting such culture and what is an affirmative cultural policy in this respect. So I believe that the eventual adoption of the cultural development strategy will help many of these concerns to be addressed. As far as tactical matters are concerned, I wouldn't be going into a detailed commentary of everything that's been said right now, but I'm saying, I believe we're going in the right direction. When it comes to movies, there's, I have to admit, all the time, not us here, but our public, about some misunderstandings. The principle by which the Ministry of Culture must work, and that principle is in accordance with the law, is the following. We transfer funds through the budget, the budget to us, us to the institutions of culture. Among those cultural institutions is the Serbian Film Centre, which has its own board, which has its own director and which the board and director elect committees composed of later decision-makers, commission members, on funds and bear full responsibility. I have to admit, now I don't know if it's all right and acceptable and sympathetic to say, I'd like the minister to decide on it, so if he knows who's guilty, if he's guilty, because I advocate the principle of personal responsibility whenever possible, but simply, the rules are like that. At the initiative of the Ministry of Culture and Information, just as part of the response, we proposed two years ago and it was accepted to introduce a special competition for films with national topics, because we noticed that in a given consolidation, when scenarios compete with each other, scenarios with national topics simply lose the race in relation to the taste of the spirit of time, because they are interested in some contemporary scenarios etc. And it turns out that the national topic scenario contest has led to some results. As for the discriminatory decisions or discriminatory evaluations of the value, quality and messages of a part of film production financed by this country, and through the film centre, we also have nothing left to do, as a ministry, but to try to make sure that additional legislation or principles of the strategy or some other tools try to influence it in principle, in a positive way, I cannot say more than this and that there are joint participations in this work, of course, both the MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and others who can influence it. In the given order of things, the Ministry of Culture, which is a common delusion, has not directly decided or can directly decide which funds will be allocated, when it comes to making films. I think that there are generally shifts, we're going to see a year, two aren't ideal weather patterns for some more reliable analysis, but I think I understand most of your observations, or attitudes, and I believe in some way we also have encouraging hints about it, but that practice needs to be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68757	Thank you, Minister. The right to replica has Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68758	All that is the authentic and cultural tradition of our people, you understand from my presentation and from our authorised representative, we can support and we just want it to be clear and legally precise. The strategy is one thing and when you define yourself on the law for something that is the highest cultural value of Serbia, that's how it should be. I didn't say that your ministry, when I say you, I address all of you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the province government, the town of Novi Sad, which is funded by the Exit Festival, with a total of 80 million dinars this year. You know what 80 million dinars of total funds are for one such, conditionally said, event without talking about all the accompanying aspects of this festival that have one other connotation. Take it on the one hand, and on the other hand, that the state should be defined, by this law you say, that the government's decision will happen when someone starts that initiative, we think it should be done immediately. What is this event, and what is the festival of the highest importance for the culture of the Republic of Serbia? It may come to someone's mind to come as that Tasovian who was, but we don't trust such a consolidation of power to happen in the future, and who knows how much, don't ever let God rule again, so let them say—that's what Tasovac went to "Mirdite", what? It's okay. We can't look at things that way. If we know that "Wolves of Days" are mentioned then and then, "Wets" also, "Desankin's Days", "Diss", "Joachim Fest", I come from the city where the first Serbian theatre was founded, so across Serbia to go with such a rich tradition, then let it stand clearly in the law and let it be told to you like this. Mr. Secretary, anything can be the possibility of abuse from opportunity to opportunity, as anyone likes it. It is also not good, and it concerns other festivals, meaning that not only have a touristic dimension, they now have a cultural dimension, which is now under the Ministry of Tourism. They now have that one, because they also have accompanying programs and contents that have some contemporary cultural character, and are based on the tradition of our people. So how is it possible now that they have to wait every year and make money out of the budget, that they don't know exactly how much it is? Don't tell me that a festival like "Days of Zupe" in Alexandrovac should now beg for money or others. There's a variety of cultural content going on here. It shows what we used to wear, how it came to be that our people were engaged in the production of wine, how the pubs were founded in the Negotin region, which are culturally good of great importance, not to mention the various promotions of folk labor throughout Serbia. It's so wide now, and the replica lasts for a while. You understand what we want and we think that it should still be through a clearly defined position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it is known and then everyone who comes next will have to, on the basis of the law, promote exactly that value.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68759	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68760	Another small contribution to our discussion. In addition to those festivals you mentioned, of course they can include "Days of Homolja", "I passed Levac, I passed the Shumadi", there are a whole series of events that are very interesting. However, here in the proposal for these changes writes, makes me, at least that's how I experience it, precisely -- the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the unit of local self-government can determine a particular event of special importance, and then repeat itself -- for the Republic of Serbia, the province or local self-government. So, the Republic of Serbia determines those events that are of republican importance and local self-government that are significant at the place. When it comes to concrete lists of certain festivals, it is somehow the view that this can be resolved and resolved by the government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the ministry. What can be theoretically viewed problem if the titles of events were introduced directly into the law? Events have their own lives, ups and downs and dependings sometimes on some directors or some circumstances, which is not good, but in any case, it seems to us, although this is interesting what you suggest and not only is interesting but it is for consideration. Look, there's another potential, and that's the potential that tomorrow, theoretically tomorrow, there's a new event that's not traditional, which, by its attributes and quality, meets after a year, two days, can be concluded by those conditions that could put it into a national event. It can happen in two three years and gain a quick and strong one affirmation, not to talk about the jazz festival now, until the Festival of People's Creation, and then in that sense it's apostrophe of concrete names, and that's not a regulation that needs to be thought about, what we're going to do, so thank you for that proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68761	Thank you, Mr. Vukosavlevich. Mrs. Dragash answered. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68762	Thank you. Including this debate and understanding the initiative of both MEPs Jovanovic and also Mr. Minister's explanation, I would also like to express that, as I have recognised, in this proposal to amend and supplement the law exactly the part that says that the Ministry will, in the coming period, together with local self-governments, create this database of cultural events in Serbia, together with monitoring or controlling budgetary spending, create exactly the basis for the quality of certain programmes to be adequately valued in the coming period, to know their tradition and that the Ministry's step through this law is precisely in such a sense. This also shows me another thing. It just confirms how rich cultural events are in Serbia, how many traditions and new ones there are, as much as any community, when I say community I mean local community, fostering what is the reflection of its end in the desire to do so year after year. Of course, there are possible oscillations and it expands it, but exactly what Mr. Minister has just said and how many new ones will come. So I'm going back to the part that I personally think is very important. The common finding on the size of the culture budget, we agreed in the majority, and it is not about whether we are satisfied or not, whether we are achieving material effects in actions or in individuals in relation to the money we have, relates and the accent is that what cultural creation is in expanding the quality of life of the nation and the state, should have its own incentive and, of course, it is a commitment and greater for the larger budget. I always underline, in line with what is possible and objectively from the budget, but with one perception that culture is the most beautiful point of i, which gives us the beauty of our social life, the education of young people and their orientations towards true cultural values, not through some quasi programs that offer some commercial television, with which most of us are not satisfied, but remain on the basis of the commercialization of their programs. So we offer young people, even at the end of the day ourselves, because we haven't forgotten to read, real cultural values, and that's how much better and better cultural results we'll have. Always according to what's possible, but with perception, let's always give one quality and step more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68763	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68764	Here, just as a supplement. So it's not often culture in this high home presented in this way, so here's a good opportunity to say the word two, very short. You said point on and, which is true. I would only add that both the foundation and the peak of the existence of a society and its quality are cultural phenomena. If, when it comes to the fact that some societies, this history has shown a long flow of time, less investment in their culture, there is a collapse, whose causes are not clearly seen at a given time, in a given society. So culture is not only an upgrade and not just a point on and, but it is actually the basis of all those patterns and cultures and policies and lifestyles and ways of speech and education and everything that capillaryly induces each other. So every investment in culture is actually an investment in the health of one society in every sense, in every conceivable aspect.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68765	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now the word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you are, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68766	Thank you, Chairman. I want to talk about cultural development in Serbia, but I will concentrate especially on the town of Nis, as the local self-government I come from. That the state of culture is better at the place, of course, and with the help of the Ministry of Culture and Minister of Resorship and with the support of the Serbian government, say projects that we expect to be realised in Nis, regardless of how large the detachments from the culture budget are, even in the republic, regardless of what local self-government should do to make more money for culture. The capital project in Nis in the area of culture is building a hall for concerts, performances, exhibitions and other events, which the town of Nis will establish as a regional cultural centre. So far, there is a project for the music hall, as it will be called, as a multi-functional facility, at which location it will be located, in Bulevar Nemnjević, and property-legal relations are being resolved. I would especially like some time to dedicate to the National Theatre in Nis. Namely, the Niski Festival of Drama and Theatres of Balkan Cultural Space, titled "The Theatre of the Cross" will take place from 11 March to 19 March this year, and the sponsor of the festival is Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. The audience will be able to see a total of eight plays based on interpretations of dramatic classics. The main topic is the relationship of man to freedom and I call upon you ministers, and all interested people to visit Nis during this period. Nis is also a city of numerous cultural events and festivals that have years of tradition, I will mention only some such as "Nishville", film meetings "Nisomnia" etc., which gather really big names, performers from around the world, from the world of music and film and represent a really brand that is recognizable in the world. They already exceed the cultural domain and enter the domain of other social areas of tourism, sport or economy. It is therefore good that, as a proposal in this Law on Culture, it is given to establish a legal basis for the systematic adjustment of this matter and the criteria for determining the importance of these events at local and republican level. It is expected to make it possible to establish co-operation between culture and other areas with which it is closely linked, but this will also allow for greater budget separations, I have already said both the republican and local self-government budgets. Since we have five urban municipalities, each of them naturally realizes certain projects relating to culture. I come from the township of the Red Cross, so I wanted to introduce you ministers to a series of events, such as the "Outside Wreath", July 7th, the Knight's Festival of Fortress Protectors, the "Peasque Caravan of Ljube Stanojevic", "March by Track of Campers", etc. For the first time this year, a concert of Greek-Serbian Friendship was organised, which brought special attention and great interest to citizens for hosting an Athens Coast Guard Symphony Orchestra, which performed works of classical Baroque music, modern and film music. This is what I wanted to tell you, in fact, that the city of Nis, as a unit of local self-government, but also all five city municipalities that don't have the status of local self-government units are really trying, the idea is a lot, the interest is great. But more money needs to be allocated to culture, both at local and republican level. On the other hand, everyone must be aware that the funds spent must be spent in a rational and comprehensive manner in order to achieve the culture development plan set by the Ministry or the Ministry in co-operation with local self-government units. In this sense, the bill, which today before us, has given some solutions and to continue to develop this area, the SNS parliamentary group will support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68767	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68768	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected ministers with your team, one study, that is, in France a few years ago, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Culture did one research, sat down and compared the data where it came to the conclusion that the economic significance of culture was extremely large. They measured these criteria and measured economic, statistical methods and proved that economically much more money brings investment in culture than investment, i.e. in the field of insurance, hotel and auto-industry combined. This is what we in the SDP, Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic keep saying, that investment in culture is a worthwhile thing and that it should be insisted, especially the state of Serbia, which is extremely rich in cultural, historical heritage. I purposely made an introduction like this, because I want to draw attention to the city of Novi Pazar. I thank you most sincerely and warmly for the kind words you have given this city several times. He is the heart of this country in a cultural sense, and it should be, it's historically justified. It is the meeting place of two central peoples in the Balkans, Serbs and Bosniaks, but there are also Montenegrins, Albanians. I am pleased that you on the spot have learned very correctly that Novi Pazar is indeed an exceptional tourist and cultural softness to be developed in this field. I also thank you for the money your Ministry has defined our House of Culture for a modernization. Your Ministry has specifically made it possible to digitize the market cinema through the projects and I'm glad you were our guest. I hope that you will come in private and will always be our dear guest for your correctness and, above all, your personal culture, because you are promoting culture in the right way and as a physician, I am proud of your performances and attitude. Anyway, I want to say that we will support these laws that you've passed today. I remind you that you had talks in Novi Pazar with the directors of all cultural institutions, archives, museums etc. You have seen that the city of Novi Pazar really takes care, that we have allocated almost a little more than 6% of the budget, perhaps most of the other cities in Serbia, that we are really trying to be visible on this cultural map, many events such as the Old Town Music Festival, Diaspora Days, etc. We want to show our cultural and historical tradition which is really, really rich and, once again, a place of meeting and good co-operation between two central peoples in the Balkans. Anyway, look, I'll remind you, I may be undermining the historical archives of the city of Novi Pazar whose rooms are quite modest, and I believe that strengthening the premises, the infrastructure of this facility would be of great importance to the city of Novi Pazar, but also to the complete Corps of the archives of our country's history. So I want to thank you once again and I want to give you the strong support you will have for these laws by Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68769	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68770	Today, in this debate, we were able to hear mostly the answers to those questions that were not essentially set out in the presentation of the minister who was giving an answer between what he said, national and modern, and why it is more modern. Mr. Minister, you, I'll quote you, said at some point that you'd prefer to decide for yourself and that everyone is responsible for their results. The moment you accepted the minister's office I believe that you were aware that each ministry was working and then you had to accept responsibility for yourself and those things that perhaps you didn't directly make the decision, but also probably those parts, here, we heard one of the MPs of the ruling majority who had you, you had the opportunity to meet you in one of the municipalities of local self-government where what was done about culture, because you were probably not informed, so here we experienced today the MPs of their minister informing you about who, where they organized. That the national theme is losing to contemporary scenarios and not sufficiently represented, because the current trend in contemporary scenarios is absolutely incorrect. What we've been talking about all day is how and in what way years ago, it's not just now during your term of office, years back in action is funding anti-Serbian projects. And when we talked about it, then we asked, are you the government's representative? How is that possible? My colleagues talked about that famous project you're funding, the Youth for Human Rights Initiative, the NGO, that your representatives, we said, the former culture minister, didn't give a response, your fellow officials of the ruling regime, went to this shameful event, "Merdita". I would like to remind you, I will now tell you what are currently on the site of the main activity of this NGO, which is funded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and they are praised for the following. The first news is a letter to Minister Stefanovic, quote, an initiative: "Although the war in Kosovo ended two decades ago, crimes by the Serbian police, military and paramilitary forces against the Albanian population must not be forgotten." It's funded by this current regime, headed by the SNS, by this kind of NGO. Then, another thing to praise -- a memorial gathering for genocide victims in Srebrenica on July 11th at the Serbian presidency, at the request of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. The first, to recognise the genocide in Srebrenica, the second, that the president and prime minister with the denial of genocide and all other war crimes in BiH and the wider cease, the third, to stop the splendor and rehabilitation of convicted war criminals, the fourth, that the denial of genocide in Srebrenica is qualified as a crime and the fifth, to declare on July 11th the day of the genocide in Srebrenica and Serbia. Then the question arises – when are you telling government representatives the truth? When you say it is patriotic, you want Serbia upright, fair, dignified, to respect you in Europe, to respect you in the world? On the other hand, you say that there was no genocide in Srebrenica, just like we did, so how could the Government of the Republic of Serbia finance such NGOs? I'm going to remind you of how inappropriate the minister's behaviour in this government is for such organizations. In 2015 it was held, they called for 7,000 candles for dead genocide in Srebrenica, just like before the presidency, and they had no meeting reported. We come as Serbian radicals to stand up, because you don't want to stand up, and then the police arrest me and say - you don't have a registered meeting. Well, neither do they, but come on, shut up. So, for someone in this country, there's a law that doesn't apply. Then why are we making these amendments and supplemental laws unless they apply? When you talked about the movie, the movie as a medium itself has a propaganda effect. Instead of financing Serbia such as the film "Balkan Međa" and such, there will be a series of films on the topic and bombings and the destruction and killing of Serbs and persecutions in 2004 and war conflicts from 1991 to 1995, on the other hand, you as a minister, of course, should experience that representatives of the victims of Serbs who lost their son, child, baby, raped, etc. should come to you. by Shipara, Ustasha and all others in the wars, which were decadent, to remind you, on September 22nd 2018, members of the Association of Family of the Dead Serbs. Then, of course, again through the ministry and the Film Centre, the Film Centre was re-competitioned with some to shoot which had an anti-Serbian scenario. I remind you that in these films, in Serbian films, criminals are represented in the film "Tret" by Ognjena Glavonjic, "Enklava" Goran Radovanovic, then the scene inappropriate, most inappropriately, which never worked in Serbia, I do not remember that they succeeded. What was the more successful film, do “Marathons run an honorary circle” and day-to-day, or, for example, the film “Klik” by Maja Miloš, where we have explicit scenes of sex and the nakedness of minor actors, and it is written – banned under 18 years of age? The actress had, if I'm not mistaken, 15 or 16 years when that movie was made? Is it better "Three tickets to Hollywood" or is it a better Serbian movie "Breaking", "Parade" and others that are even banned in the Russian Federation? It doesn't matter that they are banned in the Russian Federation, the question is that Serbian society is naked in this way. Serbian film, is this today Belgrade, is this today's Serbia, is that the culture we're going to present to younger generations? And then we're surprised when a crime happens, they're still nicknamed a "berberin" and instead of saying rapist, murderer, monster, he needs to be severely punished, he's still nicknamed. Why are we becoming a sick society? It's because as one of the most serious media, the film is presented that way. Instead of celebrating heroism, raising patriotism among our young. Is it a shame to identify with Milos Obelić? Is it a shame to identify with Emperor Lazar or with now living generals who have defended Serbia, what in the war raid, what in The Hague tribunal? Should we be ashamed of the victory of Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague? Should we forget Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic? Instead of being the first to do what the SNS did, when it came to power, it went to counter propaganda in relation to what the betraying DS did, you kept silent and even left behind, even on the contrary, to continue to finance a lot of such projects that glorify various, non-traditional parts of society and where Serbs are absolutely in a negative context and these are facts. When the premiere of the film, the Balkan Border, was promoted. Who answered first? Well, English Times, say it, then nice. No, we're not sovereign and we have a problem, we have to always do as the West tellers tell us, and we're done talking, but don't tell us lies, we'll connect to local self-government. What you've been doing, you've been in power for seven years. We didn't know anything was going on. I personally held several press conferences here and asked that Merdit's events be banned and that the funding of the NGO "Young for Human Rights" be banned, even on the contrary, you continue to finance them and continue to support such projects and the representatives of this government go there and participate in such propagandas that are anti-Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68771	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. The right to reply has Professor Marko Atlagic. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68772	Vice President of the National Assembly, first we have to give one general assessment. It is true that the previous Dossian government led anti-Serbian policies at all levels, even in culture, and there is not a single serious historian and scientist who will not say it except for NATO dusters, domestic and foreign ones. But it's also true, and I would like to be here today by one of the opposition MPs and those who are in the O.R. and those who are not to answer these questions, and later on, when I have a general discussion, I will have the first. First question, who first marked NATO aggression on our country, Alexander Vukic? Is it true or not, gentlemen of the opposition bench? Who said first - I don't want to go to NATO in this country? Alexander Wolfie? Give me, deny you and those who aren't here today. Who said I wouldn't impose sanctions on Russia? Stand up and tell me, Alexander Wolfie. Who told the West first? You're not gonna stop me from working with China? Tell me, who's the first president? Let's move on, who's the first one after the bombing, I think this is a serious thing and it needs to be more serious about the victims here in this part? Whoever first bombed in 1999 raised Serbia's army after that, Tadic's statements -- we don't need an army. Is it true gentlemen from the opposition benches? Alexander Vukic is the last and only free leader in Europe. Is it true, gentlemen, today? No, it's an honor. Let's move on, who did Alexander Vukic extradite to The Hague tribunal and the gentlemen from the opposition benches? Don't drag me by my tongue, shame on you, you're in coalition with those who extradited them. You want to lead the controversy with me and don't throw it at me, I didn't throw it at you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68773	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. I ask the MPs not to receive Professor Atlagic. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68774	Well, I'm glad when someone puts the fire in, I'm free to say in front of a good political fight and this part of the debate, I'd remind the speaker before me, or I'd give him answers, because the first one was by Professor Vojislav Seselj during the SRS government was signed a duty-free agreement with the Russian Federation, and then the co-operation with China was the biggest when the SRS was in power and Professor Vojislav Seselj in the federal parliament stood up after 2000, on October 5th said that the sun was in the east and that our road, although everyone laughed that Russia would once again rise to its feet, would be strong. I don't see any problem with that, and of course, then there was Alexander Vukic in the SRS and I don't see what you have that problem of talking to us that way. And I'll remind you that at that time, Mr. Atlagic in the SRS, you personally taught me historical moments, you spoke of the borders of the great Serbia that Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica. Yes, with you, I went to the National Library and helped you with some symbols, if I'm not mistaken, about Herzeg Novi and other cities. Look, I'm not ashamed to say that. You were a respected professor. I know you had problems at the time during the DS in Kosovo Mitrovica and at the University of Nis or where it was, I can't remember exactly. This was the period of 2007 and 2008. I am very pleased when you visited full of heart and signed the books of Vojislav Seselj and the letters you sent him to The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68775	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. Right not a replica, Professor Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68776	Vice President, I'm sorry that the previous speaker abuses, twists my sentences. I asked if it was true which president of the state before Alexander Vukic, take the stenographer, that's number one. My fellow MP, I am never ashamed of my sentences in my life. You don't know me very well. I'm not ashamed of that book I devoted to yours, and my former party president, this is about the president of the state. I never gave up those dedications in historical geography, and I received a third-rate resignation in Nis and swore that after six months I would dedicate the book to Vojislav Seselj, Slobodan Milosevic, Ratko Mladic and Milan Martic. After six months of promotion, it was sold for ten years in Belgrade, I never received any remarks. So, a remark to that. I'd love to talk to the facts, because watch out, in science there's no arbitraryness, there's no science. Since you're already talking about Vojislav Seselj, who I think is better than you all have, right now that we're clean, I mean, you're pulling me to tell you, just to tell you the truth, I have an opinion, and I will never give up those dedications unlike many who have given up. But I'm asking you a question, why don't you get up here every other day, and I got up yesterday and I said, and you weren't in the O.R. here, sir, when every other day in the newspaper "Time," says the convicted war criminal Vojislav Seselj. I get up here yesterday, I'm talking, and you're sitting here because you're not in the bench. Is it true or isn't it? Is it true that yesterday I spoke of Chograda, and you keep quiet here, and she mentions it here every day. You want me to say, Philip David, you've never spoken here, every day slandering him, and I was talking about that man yesterday or Vojislav Seselj here yesterday, and I have no problem here. I went to The Hague to defend the state and Slobodan Milosevic and the Serbian people, not muddy, but tell the truth. Just one more sentence. It takes time sometimes in science, not destroying the file, as they had previously destroyed, and not waiting 30 years, I will especially discuss it in my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68777	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Right on line, Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68778	I repeat, it's an honor to listen to the professor when he has a charge like this and when he talks about it, that I'm productively speaking. I don't speak on my own. Here, let's say one example that I took from my speech, is either one of these films taken before the progressive power or after that. I spoke of the film as a strong propaganda message and a media that today is used not only in Serbia, it is almost not used in Serbia, even on the contrary, but used in Europe and the world. I can also list how many of these are not accidentally filmed in Hollywood, films in which Serbs are depicted as the worst guys, such as the movie "Peacemaker", "Lov in Bosnia", "Welcome to Sarajevo", and then I certainly wouldn't go and hug Bill Clinton who bombed us for some political point. That's a big difference. On the other hand, you don't have to defend Vojislav Seselj from me. Unlike you, I stayed in the SRS and for me, Vojislav Seselj is still the current boss. That's why he's your ex. He's your former boss, he's been to me, he's gonna be, and as far as I'm concerned, he's gonna stay because I'm not gonna change the SRS, or because I respect her ideology and the program, and I'm really trying to represent her in the best way possible. You're not ashamed of certain dedications, so I'm not ashamed of myself in my life for 18 years as much as I am in political life for anything I've done and I think I can proudly talk about how well we've worked together while you've been in the SRS with your heart and soul, while you've not been to the EU as you have been today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68779	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68780	It's a matter of violation of the Rules of Procedure. I guess we learned that in four years. Article 107 first position. We must respect the dignity of the National Assembly and speak with precision and truth. Just one question, just for the sake of the public, to clarify and explain to my younger colleagues if they can. Since when, maybe I slept through something. I don't seem to live in this country for 20 years. Since when does the government make movies? That's the first I've heard of it today. And Serbian citizens who accidentally watch this part of the broadcast must be amazed and amazed. It's the first time I've heard the government make movies. However, I often hear from the ranks of SRS attitudes that are not attitudes from the earlier times when they were created, but now slowly move into a phase of communism and levity. They may have some regrets about Tito's time when the films under the auspices of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, Tito, were actually made in person. Then we have the release of films Veljko Bulajic and Bajke about partisans where the Chetnik movement and the Royal Army are faithful to the homeland, depicted as treasonous, and the Partisans had features of the current films "Die Men" 1, 2, 3 and 4, "Supermen" and something like that. These were ideological films where there was no artistic freedom, but you were doing it by order. I don't know that someone now in this time, multiparty time, is working on someone's order of movies. If that younger colleague, not very young, knows something different, let him tell us and the public, and then we can talk about something like that. So when we speak in parliament, we must speak the truth or if we do not know something, then we must conceal our ignorance, not put it in public with courage. As far as loyalty to a party president is concerned, I wouldn't go out in your case, because there's a lot of controversy in public, so we could talk this far and wide, but it's not a topic today. The topic is only Serbia's culture or if we want to narrow down the topic then more concrete laws that we have on the agenda today, and we have a principle debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68781	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on my injury to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68782	Do you think you hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68783	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68784	Then I'm not asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68785	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. According to the businessman Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68786	It is not a problem, Mr Marinkovic, Article 27, and Article 32, paragraph 1, when the president of the National Assembly abuses the Rules of Procedure, so use the right to replication or to some observation, it is a problem when it is incorrect. First of all, because Mrs Gojkovic was not mostly in the O.R. when we talked and started talking about amendments to the Law on Culture and because she wanted to deceive the public that her colleague Damjanovic was allegedly not referred to.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68787	Don't insult Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68788	To lead the public astray. That's fine. If you prefer that term. On the contrary, Mr Vukosavljevic understood perfectly as culture minister what his colleague Damjanovic meant. He even took concrete data out of various ministries of the Republic of Serbia, because we know that almost all the items, as they say, are in little finger, we deal with the budget in a responsible way and we talked about the projects of the Serbian Film Centre. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? And certain anti-Serb projects, which we believe should not be financed. Here, let me get back to the part of my exposure. If in Serbia's Film Centre, when a competition is being held on the basis of which money is being allocated to record a documentary film, it should be recorded, it saw the light of day on General Draža Mihailovic that the script is not at their will. You just said to me that someone should take responsibility for such a flat-rate assessment. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? So the SRS knows very well how to finance certain projects, films, documentary films. I think that Serbia's citizens, not only the potential SRS voters, are well understood by all of Serbian counterpart Damjanovic, that enough is enough with the fact that white-world mixers who manage Western orientation and agentry parties in Serbia getting money from any of the Republic of Serbia's budgets for their propaganda and activities directed against the state of Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68789	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day? Thank you. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68790	Now I don't know what it was like to hurt the Rules of Procedure. What member? (Natasa Jovanovic: According to Article 27 and Article 32(1), I said at the beginning.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68791	I assume a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68792	So you can assume, but she didn't say it, and she misused Article 104, so where it's directly talked about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (Natasa Jovanovic: It is not true, I said at the beginning of my speech. I don’t know if you’ll let me answer her exposure now, although she and I were not directly involved in any verbal communication at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68793	I think it's better than taking time from a parliamentary group. (Maya Gojkovic: Give me time for something, what you decide, replica or Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68794	I don't know on what basis did Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic find herself called here? But that's not said? (Natasa Jovanovic: It is said. ) Are you holding a session or Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic? Can you give us a hand with the chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68795	I'm listening, she's throwing, I can only ask if you can not throw. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic. I'll give you two minutes, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68796	A replica of something that didn't exist and what to do to you. I cannot make the rules apply to one MP, and some other criteria apply to others, we will agree on that. I'm just saying that I didn't understand anything, and I'm guessing neither the culture minister nor anyone who listened to her exposure. I was talking about the government not making movies in Serbia, at least not in the last seven, eight years. He does not make films and authorities nor bear responsibility for decisions by the Serbian Film Centre, and the Ministry of Culture does not have much interference, although they do not need a lawyer, they themselves make their own views. So, for no movie that you've mentioned, there's no authority for it, we have the Serbian Film Centre, they kind of have their own, I don't know, I don't get involved at all, and I'm not very interested in following, because money is different, but you don't seem to know the procedure. (Natasa Jovanovic: We know very well the procedure. When you see procedures, everyone thinks that the Minister of Culture determines everything alive. That's not true at all. It's not true at all. I don't defend him, we've often had sex if I'm not wrong, about a lot of things, but he's not responsible for everything. If he is responsible, then you defend him when some attack him. If I were in the Serbian Film Centre, or if I were a member of a commission, I would certainly, if the quality of the documentary on General Draža Mihailovic was made, I would allow it to be filmed. As a member of the commission, I'd vote for it. Why shouldn't it be filmed? There is nothing to be ashamed of in World War II at all. We are rare in Europe and in the world that we have had two liberating movements. It's rare. Both movements fought the occupiers. I can only strengthen my attitude with age, and I can't re-enact. I can't think of that. These were honorable men, men who lost their lives for our country in those times, and later died after World War II, those who survived. So, the Serbian Film Centre is responsible for whether or not he accepted some scenario in the competitions that were published. As for the films Veljko Bulajic, we can only give him credit for a few scenes in the film "The Battle of Neretva", where exactly the army, the royal army, Draža Mihailovic, is shown in one magnificent way, and that is the scene when they come on horses. And we shouldn't be ashamed of that. These are some film scenes that usually go into the history of world cinema as magnificent. So that's what it is and I wouldn't really get involved and I wouldn't open up the controversy about movies and what the Serbian Film Centre used to do and what it's doing now. It's their part and their right, their obligation, and it's not our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68797	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. We're going back to work. The word is Marijan Rističević. I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure have an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68798	You were obliged again now, Article 27, to react, Mr. Marinkovic. If you are a national MP, and besides vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it may be embarrassing for the minister, since Mrs Gojkovic had just spoken earlier, the account - president of the Assembly, so it should be addressed to all government regulations and laws, so I am going back to what you should have pointed out, as chairman, that the Serbian Film Centre, based on the law, brings criteria, criteria and financial resources for the financing of individual projects. That is what every MP should know, let alone the president of the National Assembly, and that the Serbian People's Party is explicitly opposed to any money, one single dinar from the budget, being allocated for some anti-Serbian activity. So much for everyone. Whoever understands will understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68799	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on my injury to the Rules of Procedure? (No) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68800	Article 104, Article 107. First, should the President of the Assembly inform the Assembly whether she is absent or prevented today and not chaired, so her deputies, vice presidents, chair or what is the matter? On the other hand, I have to admit that by her absolute knowledge Mrs. Maja Gojkovic has today highlighted her candidacy for the Minister of Culture and I wish her good luck. On the third hand, I'm really glad that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic praised me like that. When he says the towers are talking, then I'm pretty sure that everything I said and everything I do is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68801	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on my injury to the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has Mrs. Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68802	It works for the public, let me just say. I can't hold the presidency today, the spotlights are so flashy and I have a damaged vision and I can't look at you at all, not at all, nor can I read the papers in front of me. It's the only truth why I don't chair the session today until something's fixed. It's really not my fault I've got my eyesight down and I can't look into the reflectors. That's the only truth. To say, indeed, since journalists love such scenes, and parts of statements that I am running for anything, I am not running for anything at this time, and at least I am running for the Minister of Culture. Let's get this story over with if I'm running, whether I'm competing with the current minister. No, I don't. I am the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I greatly appreciate that most MPs supported me in my second term of office for this job that I am honorably doing, in circumstances in which I can do so. That's it. Just for the public, not for those who keep trying to conflict with the minister and me. There's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68803	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Let me add, we are as vice-president of Parliament here to help the president of the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, which says nicely in the article. From 27 to 32, so things are clear here. Professor Marko Atlagic, please, you have the right to a replica. I'm sorry, Professor, but, you know, I can only give you my word on the Rules of Procedure right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68804	Let me just say two sentences. In my biography today stands in working organizations and businesses where I worked that I was a member of the Serbian Radical Party and I will never deny it, unlike many others. That's one thing. Secondly, I never leave the party, but her program leaves me. That's the first one. Secondly, the program isn't bigger. It changes in terms of change, new knowledge and, if you will, economic, political and world situations. That's number one. I'll tell you directly now. In my one textbook, which some mentioned, it says that the oldest seal in Raska was Stefan Nemanja. It's in a 1997 textbook. In 2007, the one dedicated to that five, as I said, did not write it anymore, but was the oldest of the Machines, because science was changing its content under the influence of new knowledge. That's the way it is with parties. The parties must modernise everything, change the programme, given national and global movements. At some point, a certain program can be genius, but it can't be forever. Now, that's the point. We do things differently in science than politics do. Unfortunately, but that's the way it is. We don't close the truth forever. If I lock her up, the truth, that it's true and what I said was Machineimir, I left the possibility that she could still be someone older, because while we're sitting here, now that we're working some archives and afternoons, maybe someone found an archival document, and we all know what the archival document means, to deny and to machinemize. Now, that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68805	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. We're moving on with our work. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68806	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, culture, archival structure, in which the instrument is played by Nigel Kennedy, that was a question I didn't know the answer to. I knew he was some sort of sticker, but I thought the RTS would ask a question from Serbian culture. But, my God. You've all heard of Marinika Tepic and Nenad Canka. When she took care of culture and sport in the province of Vojvodina, the main cultural heritage was banatian shorts or cools, three ragballs and several sticks, and millions were allocated for it. Also, as a cultural heritage, Marinika Tepic did not present chickens in Morovic, but took as a cultural heritage "Sex for beginners". That's what her activity was called. It was supposed to be some kind of cultural shift. But since it was Nigel Kennedy, I'm going to talk about something else. Will someone please tell me where the Greek village is? Nenad Canak, where Marinika Tepic belonged before changing five, six parties or parties, said – we do not want a goose, we want a piano. In doing so, he forgot that the pirate school, which is very important for cultural heritage, was wiped out by the communists after, but to me it is very important, in terms of culture, in terms of the transfer of historical memory, in terms of epic songs. Serbian Homer. Will someone please tell me what instrument Serbian Homer was playing in? Goose. The first pirate school was in Irig, from the 16th to the 19th century. The Tsar ban she moved to Slankaman and during that last period she was also in Slankamen. That was so-called. A blinding academy. Very important and almost nobody, but only few in Serbia know about that part of Serbian culture, that part of Serbian culture that interfered with archive construction. So, the blind who sang those songs, sang them on fairs, thus finding out the outcomes of the battles, passed history from knee to knee, etc. The village of Greece is in the general Shid. That's what it was called all the way to between the two world wars. Now in reference to Serbia's Homer, Filip Višnić, it is called Višnić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68807	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Mr Vukosavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68808	Thank you. Here, now we're a little further away. I wanted to answer Mr Damjanovic's point of view, rather than say - thematically we got a little further away, but it doesn't matter. You've made a whole series of impressions, attitudes and observations, which, of course, is fine. However, one part of these views and impressions was related to phenomena and events that had absolutely nothing to do with the Ministry of Culture and Information, so I just wanted to, because of the public and those who, and I believe there are many, follow this session, to stress that with the festival, that is, the event you described, which is called "Mirdita", or already called, the Ministry of Culture and Information has absolutely nothing to do with it. Whether people who are directly or indirectly dealing with cultural affairs also appeared there is not a question for the Ministry of Culture and Information, so I just wanted to make a difference, to simply see exactly what we are talking about and what the elements that can relate to the Ministry of Culture and Information are. It's technically part of a social phenomenon. More importantly, the president of the Assembly said in a certain way, so it could have been an impression, or I got the impression, although I may be wrong, that the impression is misleading, that you said that they are practically being filmed, as you call it, anti-Serbian films in Serbia. I'm saying the impression may be misleading, but it could have come out of your words that impression. I don't think that stands. Various films are made that can be described by various different qualifications. Finally, the Ministry of Culture and Information, as is known, is not the Ministry of Agitation and Propaganda, since we do not live in a social system that is characterized by such forms of government. Whether it's good or bad, the opportunity would be for some longer elaborate, in some other circumstances. So there's something else the public needs to know, though he knows, but here's another one. Commission members who decide at the Film Centre to finance scenarios and films and documentary films and long-term and short-term, etc., are not the same members of the commission from year to year. These people change. These are the most common people in the world of film, screenwriters, directors, actors, producers and related professions. So if we have years, as you say, I can partly agree, partly not, now it doesn't matter, so if we have negative results for years, according to your assessment, then that means that the complete coverage of our film audience, or not the public, but the film mediators, is negatively defined, or to some extent contaminated, if we follow your logic. And then the problem is deeper. Then it means that if there was a commission made up of persons A, B, V, G, D, so they're allotted year after year to some projects that someone can say are like this or like this, the thing would have one weight. If virtually all the participants on the film scene changed, the creators on different grounds, as I said, and that the results are as you see them, which I'm not contesting the right to have your own impressions as I do, then it would mean we're on a dangerous social side. But I'm afraid not. And if that's partly the case, then it means that we have to change the cultural pattern, and that's not achieved by decree, it's not concrete moves by administrative or personal, but rather by a slightly longer, slightly more exhaustive process that would make us a gradual, what kind of democratic path, and the only way that is possible despite the challenges on this side and on the other hand, is that we simply as a state, although the state, agree completely, does not finance the films. You're right when you list a whole series of negative propaganda projects that come from Hollywood and that have been depicting years of Serbs in the blackest light, but it's a system and society, a microcivilization that rests on other grounds. This is funded by private capital, funded by banking capital, funded by corporate capital. And we can't measure ourselves, because we're not related or anything like that. I think that's good. Therefore, I am not saying that I am too satisfied with the results achieved by our film industry, not in terms of thematic selection, nor in terms of overall results. I'm not saying I'm unhappy, I'm not happy, I'm not happy, but it seems to me that in the last two years, thanks to the greater separation for the film, we have more successful projects, we have a smaller number of negative phenomena. It seems to me like a snail walk, although it might be faster, we're moving forward in that area. So, we're not, as I would say, in opposite positions, no one here is in the opposite position, I would say, but I just want to point out that the instant results in the field of culture can't be achieved by decrees, but simply by a more tiring, complex and difficult path, and it seems to me that way somehow goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68809	Thank you. The right to replica has Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68810	Mr. Minister, we seem to understand each other, but we didn't understand. I was talking about the movie right now as a serious medium. Similarly, Mr Bacevac said, as much as he could influence propaganda purposes and cited the example of the "Balkan border", as something Serbia should do, the true event to present, exactly the opposite of what Western countries are doing to us. When I spoke and cited a few films that got money and made, which are pronounced, I didn't just say anti-Serbian, I said two anti-Serbian, so they were protests, some of them listed with explicit scenes of sex, violence and everything else, and then I compared it, because you said more contemporary scenarios get, right, I said -- let's see if there are more "Marathons running around in honor," I listed movies, "Three tickets to Hollywood" and simply some movies that watch all possible generations and will be watched by anyone who knows how many years or those who have been shot, where simply Serbia and the world and Serbia in which we live represent themselves in one brutal way. Who are they representing? The world. Where do they show up? In Cannes. And so someone sees the Serbs. When he sees another Hollywood movie, where a Serb from BiH goes to the UN and puts, no less or less, an atomic bomb, he says -- well, yes, we recorded this, and here's the Serbian shot, showing his man how he behaves, and that's that. So, I didn't have a direct intention for one moment or anything in the other direction. When I was saying this about NGOs, I was telling you as a representative of the government, for what I said – one of the examples of the film industry, to finance what is at the heart of Serbia and our people. In that sense, it was going and I connected it. Not a moment after what was being discussed here, I wasn't talking, but I had to admit, it was interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68811	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68812	It's a good opportunity when people in these things can agree. You mentioned the film "The Marathons run a slow circle". However, it is a masterpiece. If every year we were able to make a masterpiece or be close to the masterpiece, we'd all be happy. But, simply, such films are the sacred grail of searching for the jewels of film art, and in order for gold to come, there must be a lot of noise. I'm not lenient or justifying with this. I mean, when a masterpiece is apostrophe, so it compares to what's being recorded every year, we're just, unfortunately, not in a position to get a masterpiece of work every year, but they're not in a position of stronger cinematography. I think we're going somewhere and that road is starting to look like something. That's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68813	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Miljan Damjanovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68814	Mr. Minister, just one more thing, I could count these films and more, and later, not to count them, to see if we know "Three palm trees for two punks and a fish", etc., etc., there is a lot, "When I grow up I'm gonna be a kangaroo". There are these films that simply represent our youth and our people, indeed everyday, but also in a normal way with Serbian humor. In that sense, I was saying why these films, these achievements are more important, and these gentlemen, let them handle the money themselves. You've said it nicely, like in Hollywood, but why should the state allow them certain means to praise them and receive a prize with a one-stop-shop scenario on our society. On the other hand, thank God, well, we also have Emira Kusturica and Milos Bikovic, and hopefully, now I don't count the others, and if I make a good strategy, the national strategy, it's true, it takes a hard process, you said it well, but let's make it light at the end of the tunnel and then we'll be, hopefully, all satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68815	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. The word has Dr Milan Ljubic. Dr. Ljubic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68816	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, amendments and additions to the Cultural Law, provides support for cultural activities that promote cultural development, promote cultural needs, promote activities, animation and mediation in cultural institutions. The criteria are defined to assess the importance of events that are a recognizable brand at local and central level and thus encourage further development of cultural tourism. In this way, the system of functioning of numerous events and festivals held every year in Serbia, such as "Guce", "Exita", "Nishvila", and all of this is important for Serbia's culture, but also great reputation in the world. Digitalization is one of the interests of culture. Technological development has influenced through integration into the field of culture and action related to the use of information and communication technologies in cultural activities to create a direct legal basis for the development of all activities related to the digitisation of our cultural heritage, cultural heritage. The proposed solutions will also enable a uniform and efficient way of using new information technologies in the field of culture through the use of unique software solutions in the process of digital restoration and the protection of fund collections. Cultural entities that make up Serbia's modern culture for their preservation have been singled out by core and complex entities whose duration dates back to the beginning of the Serbian state's reconstruction. Amendments and additions to the law also specify the conditions for the selection of cultural institutions directors. The proposed amendments are also related to the precision of the procedures and objectives of the management of the register of representative associations as well as the persons. In this way, their availability to interested persons is increased in line with new technological opportunities related to the electronic administration use project. The general interest in culture includes creating conditions for the preservation, promotion of cultural heritage, detection, preservation and use of cultural goods, as well as programmes and projects of cultural institutions, associations and entities that contribute to the development of culture and art by their quality. In voting day, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68817	Thank you. I apologize to my colleague Mircic. Milorad Mircic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move to the debate on the agenda, I would like to announce to you, as well as to your colleagues a very good news, today the Assembly of the City of Nis has decided that one street in the town of Nis bears the name of our late colleague Zoran Krasic. We are moved by this gesture and thank all the committees in the National Assembly of the City of Nis. Just for reasons to begin this way with a tradition that will be based on the qualities and values of real, not on belonging to a political party or political commitment. So this decision by the Nisha City Assembly is much, much bigger. What is related to this proposal to amend and supplement the law is clear that every bill, every strategy in the field of culture, is conditioned by multiple factors. One of the main factors is the availability of financial resources. We are a state, i.e. a society where this is a chronic phenomenon, that very few funds in relation to the total budgets are defined for the needs of this portfolio, the cultural resources. With this little resources you need to be able to manage in terms of how much the minimum is preserved in everything called globalism and the pressure of globalists on the individuality of a nation, its culture, its particularities, such as language. However, it is necessary to keep that minimum. We're not as vulnerable as society except for this financial dimension. We have something that is and what a significant tradition. When it comes to literary creation, we are a society that was given by a Nobel laureate. We are the society that gave Ivo Andric. There are few people who can boast that such a great creator has grown out of their ranks. Here's the minister pleased us, the SRS insistence was found with the means to translate the works of Nobel laureate Peter Handke, which is very positive. We are the society that has given this world, the whole culture of the world and the promotion of an Emir Kusturic, and it is not a small thing. Societys with much greater potential and financial and each other have not succeeded as much as Serbia has succeeded. It is therefore a difficult environment for the work and for the operation of this ministry in the previous period. We can't be satisfied with the criticism of the previous government, let's say – it's all in the past, while they were in power, it was all dark, it was all darkness. The absolute majority and the ability to choose, and therefore to change the selected has SNS. If she was wrong when he was Minister Tasovac, if she saw that he was more relevant to his artistic freedom, to his eccentric as it can be said freely, to behavior, than it is the unbalanced behaviour of one administrator within the Serbian government, then it had to react immediately in time, in order to prevent the consequences of such behaviour and such thinking in culture. We've seen how it goes. It goes by making out of the entire area of culture one galamatias, one provision, making performances, putting the person of the minister in the first place, etc. It's not much of a grudge on my part, because he's a man and how big and significant it is when it comes to the job he's originally engaged in, and that's the conductor, the composer, it's primarily his determination to advance the opera, the Philharmonic Orchestra, etc. But he wasn't even the reason I'm saying all this, as an advantage, wasn't the reason he was so long on personal change. A major shift was thought to be made when a new minister was brought in. We were at the time saying, Serbian radicals, that and now we repeat, would be more pleased to have Maja Gojkovic elected to this place. Why? Because we know Maja Gojkovic as a clearly defined Serbian nationalist. It's very, very important that a man himself be clearly defined in his views. Why? This is an amendment to the law relating to Serbian culture, national culture and the creation of all those living together in Serbia with the Serb people, and that is not where we should be distracted. You know, that globalistic matrix tells us to say, all of us, when it comes to laws like this, are more or less equal. No, cultural developmentists are those who are majority, and that is the Serbian people. It has even greater responsibility when it comes to enabling free creation and others to live. Why does this matter? Because there's a very strange thesis here, to say that we Serbs, different religions, have different cultures, we don't have gentlemen. We have a unique culture, at a historic moment there's been an understanding, or a divergence when it comes to religious definition, rather than cultural. Culture and language stayed together, same. Now the thesis here is that the culture of those who are exactly the same, equal to the majority Serbian people, is also different because of this difference and specificity, should have special treatment. No, it's totally insane at first sight, and on the other hand, it's a strategy that's being implemented at the premises of the Republic of Serbia to prove that there are not only differences in language but we are completely culturally different from those with which we are of the same origin. What's the connection? Well, we're being tied up by culture right now. It's completely strange to me, Minister, how here in the representatives of cultural events, when it comes to the theatre, how did you leave out the Serbian National Theatre from Novi Sad? Mr. Minister, you know this well, those who founded the Serbian National Theatre, it's the first national theatre in this area. As part of Austria, it was not easy to establish it, and it was even harder to transfer it from Budapest, i.e. from Budima to Novi Sad. Those who founded it, they set it up for the reason they said he was speaking from the stage to the people's Serbian language, to explain to the viewers from the stage about the past of the Serbian people, that the Serbian people understood it. The first director of the theatre, Jovan Djordjevic, raised the Royal Serbian National Theatre at Prince Mihajl Obrenovic's request, is today's National Theatre in Belgrade. Just ministers, it's a matter of fact, it's national, it's clearly defined. We don't mind. It should also be a folk theater, because these are the two oldest theatres in the case of the Serb people. But the Serbian National Theatre at the moment, Minister, when you see for yourself how much it insists on the West, that Novi Sad be the capital of European culture, and if we were even more naive, we would believe that it is their sincere desire. No, it's not the Minister, you know it well. You are a man who stays in culture for a long time, you know that based on what is being doubled between the Serbian people, on those who are in the autonomous province and those who live in central Serbia, that they differ culturally, that they differ in language. It's a preparation for something that can be very dangerous. It is therefore important to preserve this significant tradition. Tradition is the Serbian National Theatre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68819	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Also, I would like to express my respect and congratulations to the Niš City Assembly, because they have decided to assign a street in Nis to our colleague Zoran Krasic. His glory is eternal, and I congratulate you on it one more time. The right to replica is Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68820	Thank you. Here, before the replica and I join the praise of the city of Nis for the decision that has been made, which is deserved and decent. Mr. Mircic, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think we're currently covered by some misunderstanding. What do you mean when you say there was no mention of the Serbian National Theatre and why? Tell me which member is it and what is it? (Milorad Mircic: 25a 2nd position. Yes, so here it says, that's probably the element of that misunderstanding. As for everything else you said after that, I fully agree with you, it's undeniable. Where's the misunderstanding? It says here – in the institutions of contemporary creation, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia: a, b, v, g, d, ð, founder of the Serbian National Theatre, large institutions of Serbian culture, formally not the Republic of Serbia, but the AP. In that sense, this is defined as that. There is no other plot and no other intention. It's just a formal listing of those, you know, not to be too long, that's what I was going to say. This is the essence of why it is not listed here, or the numbered Serbian National Theatre, because of a formal framework that begins the view that these are cultural institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68821	Thank you, Mr. Vukosavlevich. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68822	That is the essence, Mr. Minister, and you have quite rightly defined it. The Serbian National Theatre until 2000 worked by the founder of Republika Srpska and after 2000, after "5. In October" they purposely, for a reason, returned it to the AP level of Vojvodina. Because there was a long-term intention. You well remember how much efforts were made, pressures for the Serbian National Theatre to change its name, name, so they explained, there is no point in being the Serbian National Theatre in a multinational, multicultural Vojvodina, it insults the dignity of those who are not Serbs, so it is a theater of people and peoples, then it is only a theater, etc. They even went so far as to make the building so far, I don't say, at the very least, that it's repulsed in itself as a construction facility, that as few people as possible would come to that institution. Of course, it does not include Maja Gojkovic who regularly attends all plays and is not only because of it, it is not her advantage that we have run for Minister of Culture, but because she is defined by herself national. I don't want to warm up any doubts at all, but that was our honest point. After all, Natasa Jovanovic, Minister, in order not to suspect, Natasa Jovanovic is a witness, I am here from the front row of Aleksandar Vukic when he was Prime Minister, asking why Maja Gojkovic is not a culture minister? He said he would be on the next change, Maja Gojkovic. It was perfectly normal to expect. Of course, I didn't accept it. It was Mr. Tasovac. It wasn't you. Mr. Tasovac was, but to me it was more logical, we were... (National Ambassador Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws without a microphone. Yes, here's Natasha to quote you. Is the quote finished? Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68823	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Mr Filipovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68824	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to me personally as a MP is not a priority as the Minister of this or that resolution is called, it is my priority when you come to the National Assembly, when you participate in the debate together with us, what your results are, what is behind you, what is behind the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we supported after the previous elections, which we continue to support and which, of course, I am confident, will support most of the citizens of this policy and after the next elections. Supporting, not because someone likes your name or someone likes my name, or colleagues Martinović, Markovic, Aleksandr Vukic, because people support the policy of results. People are sick of politics like politics on their own, empty stories. People are interested in what you've done in your culture portfolio. Here we can boast, and above all thanks to the courage, determination and willingness to deal with the most difficult problems in the country, President Alexander Vukic, then prime minister, to begin with the final renewal and opening of the National Museum, as the foundation of our culture, which has not worked normally in this country for decades. He now works at the full capacity that he has, that our children in primary education, in high schools, high schools, colleges, that even older people can go to the National Museum, get acquainted with our cultural creation, with the wealth that this country has. It's the way you show patriotism. We are not showing our patriotism by talking about you in a nice or ugly way here, but by presenting to the citizens what we did during our term of office. That's true patriotism. I don't want to teach my children by screaming about patriotism, putting a spoon on my head, which I'm proud of, which I have in my house, but it's not the measure of patriotism. The measure of patriotism is the National Museum, the measure of patriotism is also the National Library, which we have to look after more and the books that we have there. The measure of patriotism is memories, the measure of patriotism is a history that we have to teach our children, the two liberating folk movements that we have had, Montenegrin and Partisan. We have to teach our children who we are, who we are, we have to teach them to write a Cyrillic letter, we have to teach them where they come from, who their ancestors are, to be proud of. It is a measure of patriotism today in Serbia and Serbia that we are raising in the right and truly patriotic way today because we have the president we have, Alexander Vukic. Only thanks to him, this government can do the jobs it does, thanks to its authority, its courage and its willingness to face both the most difficult, possible forms of spit, the statements of falseness and everything, because he said himself – I am a thunderbolt to all of you that you can do. That's why you have to work harder and better and harder, so that your results are even better than they've ever been before. There's no dilemma, it's done a lot in the area of culture. Today, counterpart Jadranka Jovanovic said she had enough money. The steam can always be more in any vault. It is natural for ministers to want to have more money than their budgets are set, but it is all in line with the policy, the financial situation that we have in the country. Our financial situation from 2012 to 2014 was the least said in desperate terms. We were on the verge of bankruptcy, on the verge of the survival of this country, in a literal sense of that word. Today we have managed to come to this stage so that we can boast that in six years of serious, courageous, determined reforms that lead, I say again, President Alexander Vukin, together with the SNS he is leading, we have managed to do a lot in the area of culture, which you are leading, as minister. Of course, today is also commended that it will not be possible to abuse V.D. Director's status. It's a very important thing, especially because of those people who only dream of being directors of some institutions or some businesses, and for that they don't really meet objective conditions, so then once upon a time it was used as a possibility to be in V.D. for life. status, based on a political decision. We are against it, as SNS, being the political decision. We believe that the decision is that based on the competition, based on the expertise, the knowledge of the candidates is chosen by the director at the competition and I am convinced that it will be in the institutions of culture in the next period. A confession by counterpart Jadranka Jovanovic got a big deal for Serbia. That's, I'd say, maybe we're not the ones who give that confession enough of the amount of recognition she's got, because that confession is getting bigger with the passing of time, historically speaking. Many of our greats throughout history, in this real time when they lived, have not been sufficiently raised to one true level that the public knows about them, as it should know and know what their achievements are and what their, to say, meanings for world culture, above all, because the Serbian people have made many contributions to the world's cultural heritage, of course, to the Serbian, whom we are proud of, and so much to do, have contributed much. I will give only an example of Vuk Karadzic, whom we as a people have repeatedly forced out of Serbia and made fun of and twisted the mockery in every way possible, with the passing of time we have reached this level of consciousness that we have realized who this man, who contributed to Serbian culture, Serbian script, spelling and to what extent he is significant for world history and world cultural heritage. Of course, Serbia is a country that can boast of numerous great artists, great painters, writers, scientists, and in this sense, Serbia is absolutely, by my deep conviction, capital, not Belgrade or Novi Sad, European or world culture, but Serbia is the capital of culture in this part of Europe and there is no dilemma in that. I am convinced that in the coming period, too, it will continue to work to improve the status of cultural workers, to work on improving the status of independent artists, perhaps often forgotten about academic painters, painters, one part that is not as commercial with us in the country as it may be acting in some way or as singers, to pay little attention to these people. Many of them contact us and talk to citizens, including painters and graphics. I talked to some of them myself, and they'd like to have a better status. I am convinced that as the country grows stronger and financially, the conditions will be made for these people to live far better and more politely, because they see Serbia going better and I am confident, and after spring this year that it will be much better, that the next budget will bring more money and more opportunities and more new projects for all artists in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68825	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. The word is Mrs. Nevenka Kostadinova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68826	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, the culture of one society is an upgrade of that society and largely depends on the overall situation in that society. On the one hand, the culture of one country depends heavily on the economic situation and the degree of development of the country, and on the other hand cultural activities are intertwined and closely linked both to the economy, tourism, and customs, tradition and the fundamental features of the national identity of one nation. In this way, cultural activity related to these elements through tourism brings great benefits to many countries because it completes cultural offers and makes them more contentable and attractive. As I come from a small underdeveloped and dislocated Bosilegrad municipality inhabited by members of the Bulgarian national minority, I will look back on the importance of culture and cultural manifestations from the aspect of national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, more than 20 national minorities live in our country, and all of them are now identified by their different cultural features. That is why the state has given cultural autonomy to minorities through national councils they choose. In addition to culture, national councils of national minorities also have information, education and official use of languages and letters of national minorities. The culture law itself provides for the protection and improvement of cultural diversity and the strengthening of intercultural dialogue, as well as the strengthening of the capacity of culture and its links with other areas, such as education, science, tourism and integration of cultural development into the socio-economic and political long-term development of a democratic society in which everyone is living, working, progressing and developing together. The law provides for the discovery, creation, study, preservation and representation of both Serbian cultures and cultures of the national minorities of the Republic of Serbia, which is the basis of a democratic society that gives equal chances to all its citizens, regardless of national or other belongings. By cultivateing the culture and tradition of all nations each nation retains its identity and thus becomes and remains recognizable with the preservation of its roots and its own cultural heritage. Cultural events that have become connections and bridges of connection between different cultures, through them are nurtured their own heritage, with the introduction and respect of others. Through these events, members of different peoples, majority and minority, get to know each other, connect, cultivate multiculturalism, develop tolerance and respect, while preserving their identity. These events are particularly important for small and marginal municipalities, such as our Bosilegrad municipality, where these events are given international character. Such manifestations are the reason for many to come and visit the venue, to get acquainted with the tradition and culture of the place. Two large international festivals are held in our municipality, one is on Easter, and it consists in the Easter Eggs competition, accompanied by rich cultural content. It is this very event that makes this beautiful Christian holiday even more beautiful. The second festival is a folklore festival organised at the end of July. These two events for a moment revive our environment, restore life in the streets, restore joy, energy and confidence, and the pride of each individual to his legacy with the knowledge and respect of the heritage of others. Given the importance of culture and cultural events, it is indicated that the need is in line with progress and development in the field of culture, that many things are regulated and defined by law, which is largely the aim of this law. Therefore, the law lays down the frameworks in which cultural content is defined, establishing a legal basis for further systematic regulation of this matter in order to clearly determine the criteria for assessing the importance of these events under the obligation of the state to take account of sustainable functioning and impact on the overall development of the culture of all its citizens. From the forward of the voting day, I will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68827	Thank you, Mrs. Costadinova. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, Mrs. Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68828	The chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, MPs about the importance of culture should not be specifically spoken, because our culture, our wealth, our identity card and the sign of recognition in the world. Serbia's cultural survival is our mission, but it is also the cultural survival of all our national minorities. The people are hungry for culture and therefore need constant investment in culture, and my opinion is that lack of money can be an excuse for neglect, for bad fit, for many lack of initiative, as we were witnesses in the previous regime before the SNS came to power. With this existing money, every year it is funded into cultural institutions, in creation, in the media and these results may sometimes not be visible enough, but in my opinion, change in culture needs courage, an idea more than money is needed, and if in my opinion it has little and it needs with the financial consolidation of Serbia in some future years to be more money. It is a great thing that Novi Sad will be in 2021 our capital of culture and that is another opportunity we should take advantage of to present and promote Serbia's cultural heritage. We should be proud of our cultural heritage, which is also partly protected by UNESCO and taken care of. It is our duty to pass it on to future generations like the previous generations passed on to us. I would also take this opportunity to point out that, in my opinion, it takes a lot more effort and initiative to preserve the Serbian language, Cyrillic and our literature. Also, I believe that our citizens of Serbia deserve a richer, more meaningful cultural life in local self-government. The decentralisation of cultural policy is important, the spirit of culture, with the efforts of all of us, must come into every part of our country. A constant integration of culture, tourism and education is needed. It is good that the Ministry of Education has made a decision that our children, our school children not only visit the international capital during their education, but also that school trips, school trips are represented and that they visit Serbia. But in my opinion, this is not directly related to the Ministry of Culture, but to the Ministry of Tourism, this offer should be enriched both for our children and for tourists. It is unacceptable that we do not have a richer offer, a tourist offer and a trip to visit Stara Ras, the capital of medieval Serbia or also the Vincan culture of the world's most advanced prehistoric culture. I consider nothing less important and strengthening the capacities of culture and civil sector institutions, raising their professionalisation and transparency, as well as digitising Serbia's cultural heritage, but also many cultural events such as FEST, BITEF, BEMUS, Guca, EXZIT, because I believe these events are our best ambassadors and promoters of Serbia. During the government's mandate, the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art opened, but it is unacceptable that our generations and tourists for ten years were not able to visit the cultural treasure of every country, such as the National Museum, during which time they filled their pockets and did not care about Serbia, and today they are unsuccessfully trying without authority, led by Dragan Gilas, to come back to power, to take their positions without source, from which they can rob Serbian citizens as they did in the previous period. And I don't want to end my exposure today to those who are political past but to the fact that today is a special day for this whiskey home because of the fact that page 166 of the Miroslav Gospel is returning to its place. It is a big day for our culture and for Serbia in general and in the voting day I will support the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68829	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. Now you said there's Desanka Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68830	Thank you. Dear Mr. Guest Minister, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, today I will say something about amendments to the Law on Culture. The Culture Act has been in force since 2009, it has been implemented since 2010, and the first amendments and amendments to the laws were implemented in 2016. The law has no definition of culture, this is a very complex concept and someone once said – culture is a mirror of life. Our culture is depicted in our behavior, our belief systems, our principles and our way of life. Culture is an invisible bond that connects people. Art, literature, language and religion together make up culture. A set of all forms of man's work is called culture. Culture is a social phenomenon, it creates a human being and it exists only in it. Our culture gives us identity, helps us build our character. The cultural values that we share in a community or social group give us a sense of belonging in society. Culture unites us. The language we speak, art, literature, historical and cultural heritage that we are proud of, our cuisine, festivals, customs and traditions, together make up our culture. They become part of our daily life and influence us in many ways. There is not enough emphasis on the importance of culture, and since it is something that is within us, around us and makes it an integral part of our being. It determines how it treats others as well as itself. Health care, education, culture, are the basis and misery of every society that lies on the country's economic prosperity and are directly dependent. Now I'd like to get back to the law. The definition of cultural content is areas of culture within which these cultural activities are carried out. Cultural entities have great interest in precisely establishing in this part the work that represents the subject of regulation of this law which has the character of artistic action. In particular, the bill adds to the work of artistic photography and the use of information and communication technology in cultural work. Our country is famous for numerous events and festivals held in all parts of Serbia and is a recognizable brand. It exceeds the importance of culture and enters the domain of other social areas such as tourism, sports and economy. Therefore, the Law on Culture indicates the need to establish a fair basis for the systematic arrangement of this matter. One element of general interest in culture is those programmes and projects of subjects in culture that contribute to the development of culture and art by quality. The law says that entities that make up Serbia's modern culture single out those who are following the start of a modern Serbian state, their contribution to Serbian culture of modern times has been confirmed and continued. The state is obliged to take care of their functioning and their more intense influence on the development of our culture. When it comes to the digitisation of cultural heritage, we should use a unique restoration and protection of fund documentation, a collection of movable and immovable cultural goods. The law should comply with the General Law. The next paper in the law is to specify the conditions for selecting the directors of cultural institutions and given the specificities of the most difficult professions, let's say, the artistic game where the great role of the material artist himself and his education, medical care equipment and the treatment of the risks of professional injuries should be arranged and their position. As investments are limited financial in the culture from the budget, the law proposes that funding and co-financing of programmes and projects in culture and institutions founded by the Republic of Serbia, the province and units of local self-government must comply with other system laws in the area of finance. In order to achieve its fundamental role, the establishment of a legal basis for more effective regulation of cultural areas is subject to inspection because it is the most important measure of the Ministry of Culture to ensure the application of this law. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to talk about culture today. I'd just like to say that investments are minimal, but they're as much in the infrastructure of historical and cultural heritage as they are done. I will only specify the reconstruction and adaptation of the Saturday theatre, a project that is two decades old, this power and your ministry has brought this theater to a final stage that will be completed next year and will be invested in another 887 million. Thank you, so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68831	Thank you, Mrs. Repac. Now the word is Dr Branimir Rancic. Doctor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68832	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests from the Ministry, respected MPs who are in the O.R. today is on the agenda Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture. In my opinion, it's a very important law, not to say, the most important, because workers are culture and athletes, the biggest promoters of a country abroad. The example of my findings is Novak Djokovic and Emir Kusturica, and not to mention the others, I hope the others will not mind. The Culture Act determines and concreteises issues of general interest in culture, which is of particular importance because of the fact that funds for the achievement of general interest in culture are provided in the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units. As a result, there was a need to specify activities in culture, since the Culture Act has not established a definition of culture. For example, the general interest in culture includes, among other things, some, encouraging, promoting and creating conditions for the development of international cultural co-operation, encouraging young talent in the field of cultural and artistic creation, encouraging amateur, cultural and artistic creation, promoting children's creativity and creation for children and young people in culture, promoting cultural and artistic creation of persons with disabilities and the availability of all cultural content of people with disabilities, which I consider to be very important, and sixth, regulation of markets in the field of culture, promoting sponsorship and donation in culture. It is known that budget allocations for culture are below one percent and that this amount cannot meet the overall needs that are part of the overall functional cultural system at the central and local level. The town of Nis recognized the importance of culture, in this sense it singles out little funds to finance content from the area of culture. In addition to the National Theatre, the Low Symphony Philharmonics and other budget users in the field of culture, not to be listed, funded and the oldest film festival in the Republic of Serbia, film meetings, the festival of acting performances, as well as the international jazz festival "Nishville". For example, the city of Nis will try to secure and finance the performance of Serbia's Youth Philharmonic "Naisus". It is a unique call for Serbia that the Serbian Youth Philharmonic "Naisus" participates in the World Youth Orchestra contest in the world's most prestigious "Disney Hall" in Los Angeles. This call has already been sent three times, 2014, 2015 and 2019. The Youth Philharmonic "Naisus" was founded more than 10 years ago and during that period achieved unique and unremembered results for its country of Serbia, winning two gold medals, one in Prague in 2012 and one in Bratislava in 2014. Also, in 2013, she won fourth place in the world in the Vienna competition at the famous Golden Hall "Music Faraj". This Serbian youth philharmonic consists of young people from 17 to 29 years of age from 20 Serbian cities, from Sutotica to Leskovac, who are members of four national minorities and two disabled members. So at the beginning of my presentation, I highlighted the importance of international cultural co-operation and the promotion of young talent as well as the promotion of cultural and artistic creation of people with disabilities. The Serbian Youth Philharmonic has so far performed many world names of the opera scene, which does not question the quality of these young people, students and high school musicians. Also, in Nis, construction of a large concert hall with a minimum of 1,500 seats, which is necessary for a city as big as Nis. In the amendment debate, the question of so-called cultural behaviour should also be mentioned. Why do I say that? Because I'm encouraged by the tweet Vesna Pesic. As for tweets, Vesna Pesic, directed to President Aleksandr Vukic, just a tube in his head, I have to comment on a professional psychiatric point of view, since I am a psychiatrist by education. After the prosecution came forward and began to question whether there were any elements of the crime in that tweet. The tweet author said that she was not well understood and that it was referring to her, most likely alluding to her under the sign of a bad life and a solution she sees in suicide. When she was an ambassador to Mexico, she lived well. It was a sweet life with tequila, Margaritas, guacamoles, enchelades and mariaces. This explanation further deepened the situation she was in. Namely, any thought or attempt to kill a so-called suicide. Tentamen suicide must be taken seriously by a psychiatrist who has to hospitalize a suicidal patient. And a history car and a hetero history to examine all the facts of the tentamen. This is done in hospital conditions, in this case at the Hospital for Mental Diseases "Laza Lazarevic" in Belgrade. I'm undermining that no one has the right to take their own life and the obligation of a psychiatrist is to prevent him from doing the procedure prescribed for forced medical treatment, or for forced hospitalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68833	Thank you. The word is Studenka Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68834	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister. The cultural wealth of Serbia is truly impressive. The remains of the centuries-old civilizations where all the peoples who lived have left their traces, who still live in these areas today, and have embezzled something of their own into the Serbian cultural heritage, attract a large number of tourists. When it comes to culture, it's about something nice, something that matters to people, something that people enjoy. Culture has always been an important part of our Serbian identity, and often in difficult times through culture and survival. This is witnessed by monuments of culture, libraries, museums, ethnic heritage, customs, etc. The first written cultural monument in Cyrillic is the 12th-century Miroslav Gospel written in gold on a white parchment that UNESCO has classified as one of the most important works of the world’s documentary heritage. This Gospel is being held at the National Museum in Belgrade, and one of the lists found at the National Library in Sanpeteburg will be handed over to Serbia a month after the entry into force of this agreement between the government of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation today on the agenda. So, despite Serbia being in the space of frequent wars, destruction, we still have a rich cultural heritage that brings together ancestors and descendants, and that is why it is so important to protect and cherish them. The Serbian government has shown great understanding for the preservation and development of culture. The National Museum of Serbia, which was closed for 15 years, was also reconstructed, and the Museum of Contemporary Art was opened for 10 years. Also, the 2020 budget envisions investments in the modernisation of infrastructure aimed at culture of 2.4 billion and of course investments in a concert hall of more than 14 billion. The salaries of cultural employees are 10% higher. All in all, a major shift has been made in this area and a whole series of cultural activities has been planned and not only in the capital, or Belgrade. The "Bora Stankovic" theatre in Vranja opened, a reconstruction of the theatre in Subotica will be completed, numerous activities are expected in Novi Sad, which will officially become the European capital of culture in 2021. We have adopted amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights here in Parliament, if you remember, which is a significant improvement in the rights of artists, or authors or interpreters of music, film authors, etc., the right to compensation for the content used by media service providers in the production of the programme. The only media in Serbia that will never pay anyone anything is Gilas N1, Nova S and others, because they are not registered in Serbia. The self-proclaimed elite doesn't care about culture, and we've seen it many times. In any case, as Serbia's economy develops, investment in culture is also increasing. There is no doubt that all of this together will contribute to the overall development of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68835	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68836	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members of the People. At the very beginning of my presentation today, I have to share with you that today, yesterday and today, I laughed very sweetly at watching pre-election videos published on Twitter by an unhide leader and financial leader of the Alliance for Serbia Dragan Gilas, a tycoon and a liar, an idea designer of the boycott of the National Assembly, a boycott of elections and a boycott of common sense. So, this tycoon, which was enriched by the abuse of power and influence, performing public functions, reselling marketing space and advertising minutes at public service and other media, with the position of the National Office of President Boris Tadic, Minister of the NIP in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, mayor of Belgrade, and all at the same time and with the position of senior DS executive, whose president was also the tycoon now, the only leader of the opposition that has declared to boycott the elections, in spite of probably his boycotts of the elections, has also gone to a pre-election campaign, announcing pre-election videos on Twitter, in which he makes pre-election promises and thus acting money as from his sleeves. I laughed sweetly at that bunch of false promises and boasting nonsense. He says in one video, as far as culture is concerned, that in the first six months of his government, the culture budget will be twice as large as it is today in that first package. It is about 100m euros, he says, and later it will even go up to 4% of the entire budget. That's what the man who ruined the state of culture in Belgrade said. According to his counterpart Sergey Trifunovic, a cultural worker, known for his culture and ignorance, also the leader of the opposition, and you also boycott. From his pre-election videos, I realized that in the first six months, he would spend all the money from the budget, hard to gain, the hard work of Alexander Vukic and the current authorities, and that in the next six months, if God does not give him power, he would take Serbia back into bankruptcy. I laughed, but let me go back seriously to the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. The relevant cultural law has been in force since September 2009, and has started with its application in March 2010, and before that, the area of culture has not been regulated by one general act, but we have had two laws – the Act of Action of General Interest in the field of culture and the Law on the independent performance of art or other works in the field of culture, which regulated only certain parts of the overall cultural system in our country. After the adoption of the applicable Cultural Act, several sublegal acts have been adopted which in a more detailed way have come out of the law. Only by adopting these sublegal acts, which detailed certain areas of culture, which were based on the Culture Act, were the legal preconditions for a more uniform and efficient regulation of the entire area of culture. However, after years of experience, since 2009 - 2010, certain problems that relate primarily to the following have been raised. On the general principles of cultural development, the general interests in culture, the concepts of cultural activities and cultural areas, content and formal issues related to the recognition of the ultimate contribution to culture, and above all to the so-called "Courture". National pensions, the work of the National Council for Culture, the position of directors of cultural institutions, the status of representative associations in culture, the budgetary financing of culture, etc. Having these problems in mind, the new law, which we need to adopt, sets out the principles of cultural development and formulates the basic settings on which the functioning of our cultural system is based. The general interest in culture is more precisely defined in the new law both in terms and in essence, in the most efficient way for our culture. The notions of cultural activity and cultural areas are agreed and specified, and the law defines and regulates the content of our culture. After a certain time has elapsed in the functioning of the National Council for Culture as an advisory body that was first introduced into the system of functioning of culture in our country, the adoption of the first cultural law, the new law allows for greater participation of representatives of the protection of cultural heritage. Since the position of directors in cultural institutions has in practice caused many concerns, changes and additions to legal solutions in the new law reduce the possibility of abuse of this institute in practice. Also, since part of the applicable law on culture that regulates the status of representative associations in culture because of its inaccuracy is not fully applicable in practice, the new draft law corrects errors relating to the status of translators of scientific and professional texts and identified positions of new cultural activities relating to the application of information and communication technologies in culture. The budget financing of culture has been more precisely defined, with a view to more efficient spending of funding from the Republic, the province and local self-government units. Since it is not disputed that there is a general agreement between the professional and lay public on the need to solve all the problems observed in culture through the institutions of the system, it is good that the new law on culture targeted those parts of the law that were generally thought to require a different regulation system, which raises the overall system of our culture to a higher level. As far as the effects are concerned, I expect that the efficiency of the system of performing all activities in the field of culture will be raised, the obligations and responsibilities of the state administration, the province and local self-government at all levels in the field of culture and improve the conditions for the work and operation of all participants in cultural processes, which will ultimately reduce the costs of citizens and businesses. In addition, the new law generally creates a favourable environment for the establishment of private cultural institutions, which can establish private legal persons and natural persons, under the conditions laid down by law. For all this, I support the proposed laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68837	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68838	Thank you. Dear representatives of the ministry, since the minister is not in the hall, so I count on you to tell him what I told him, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and today's session runs without part of the opposition gathered in that Alliance for Serbia led by Dragan Gilas, and has turned out a year since their boycott, namely the lack of work for which they receive a regular salary from Serbian citizens and thus sent a message about what their relationship to the topic we are discussing today, what their relationship with the National Assembly is, but what their relationship with the citizens who chose them. This session today where we are discussing cultural laws flows in the campaign of some media against Alexander Vukic, as president of the Republic, just because he dared to say he didn't think it was great in our judiciary, in our prosecution, and he actually said what we all know and what every citizen of Serbia knows. The wolf's sin is that he said he wanted criminals to be in prison, that he wanted criminals, drug dealers, rapists and murderers not to be free, to be behind bars. Now, it's a sin that caused an attack salva, as it interferes with the work of the judiciary, as it threatens the independence of the judiciary, destroys the institutions and a bunch of other nonsense we've heard. Obviously, you can't say here that there are obviously certain problems in our judiciary, in our prosecution, that there are examples that murderers, rapists, dealers, often end up at large, some who think they're obviously sacred cows in our society, and that you can't even notice that things don't work very well with them. And if you do notice, then you must not dare publicize that to the citizens of Serbia, to say publicly that some prosecutors and judges are not doing their job well. Because then there's the hack and the campaign, and they and their political mentors and their media, and so on. And if you happen to mention some kind of control of their work, these protected white bears, well, then you've touched the nest of a wasp, then you're becoming the worst president in history, then you're becoming the worst man in the world, you're being sultan, despot, and what they've been saying all these days. Then, right away, Olja Bećkovic makes her show, brings in various quasi experts, the Majic, who is only known to have released his own time group, and in his spare time is a blogger, so he says to himself, and an analyst for everything and everything in society. Then immediately we have the Alliance for Serbia's working titled "Today", the daily newspaper is called, although we all know that this is the daily paper of the Alliance for Serbia, which then brings, or ask various quasi experts and problem types for comment, so in today we have all the experts who have found themselves invited to comment. He has this Vladimir Gajic, he is the chairman of the National Party's legal council on Vuk Jeremic, so he says - he wants absolute control of the judiciary, that's where he thinks of Vukic, that's the mafia principle. Be careful, this Vladimir Gajic, who has been arrested in time for millions of malfeasances around construction land, around construction, etc. Then we have an even bigger expert, Bojan Pitiæ. Bojan Pajtic says -- there are still people with integrity in the Serbian judiciary. That's probably where he thinks of this Miodrag Majic. You know, that's their criterion -- if it's against the Wolf, then he's a man of integrity. It's their only criterion. He says there are still people with integrity in the Serbian judiciary. If this is a criterion, and we know their criteria, we know how judges and prosecutors were elected by the Democratic Party's municipal committees, it is likely that Pajtic in Vojvodina was appointed by prosecutors and judges. And all of this is likely to continue for the next few days, but I am sure Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic will insist on making Serbia a successful, decent and orderly country, and we as the SNS parliamentary group will help him do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68839	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68840	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I said in front of the SNS in the opening part of these three laws this morning. That's one thing. Secondly, now is the chance to clarify some things during today's discussion, and that I wouldn't forget, Mr. Minister, at first to say that in the last seven, eight years, since the SNS was in power, more in culture than 40 years ago, at least as far as the material work is concerned. Let me just mention these two folk museums -- the Museum of Contemporary Art and a series of other things. That's number one. Number two, when it comes to archives, I insist, and the party I belong to, along with the material side and on expertise. So, let's say, after we do the internal, so-called. internal reform in education and education, now we're going to phase two, you know it better than I do, because you're a minister and you have better information, the second stage of the internal reform of cultural institutions. What does that mean? Museum, archives and other cultural institutions. In order not to forget the archives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, in an extremely difficult state, you know, you have been informed, thank you, and the party to whom I belong, which has devoted the last seven, eight years to that establishment special attention, because earlier the dossage authorities have taken off funding, you know very well, if we are funding them, to save the treasure, the archive of the Serbian Academy of Sciences. This morning, we talked about how much archival and library construction are in danger, in general. It's on one side. Secondly, when I say – kod, we don't really have in our archives experts who know at least the basis. I'm just going to count, now is the chance to say, I'm sorry that there are no political opponents to hear now, people, but not their guilt, archives, but the guilt of the university, all the philosophical, all of them, that we didn't provide teaching programs to the archivists, the museologists, etc. I will list only the sources of an area where no historian should enter the archives, the one in Dubrovnik, the Serbian office from the 13th century to today, what should be known: muzeology, archivistism, protection and conservation of archival buildings, chronology, philigranology. To ask historians, 90% do not know what is, not secondary schools and colleges, and we have the largest collection of Filipinos in the Balkans, in the National Library of Serbia. The famous Vladimir Moshin left everything behind. We destroyed people who did business because they didn't have a doctor's degree, master's degree, did they? One already died, I think Radomir Stankovic retired, etc. So, the young man can benefit from that wealth. That's the point. Further, chronology, negatistics, Latin paleography, Cyrillic paleography, and ancient Slavic Cyrillic and verb, etc. History of state and law, not just lawyers, every historian has to have a basis for it. Middle-aged society among southern Slovenian peoples, especially Serbs. Numismatics, toponymics, historical meteorology, ask college professors, 90% don't know what it is. It says – measuring time, it studies measurements and scales in historical science. Well, it's not the same eye in Leskovac and the same eye in Vojvodina, that's the point. So this is about sources of history, and on the basis of sources, we study and leave history, and we leave it to younger generations. Generality, not to mention, etc. Today there was a discussion here about patriotism and scientists, or cultural workers, to say their relationship with patriotically sensitive. That's where we really have problems. It's not really clear to me that he can be a culture worker, a culture worker, and he's not a patriot. We got 'em. I got no problem naming 'em. I'm going to name them now. Let me just say that it is not clear to me that Mr. Trifunović Branislav, therefore, is a man of culture, when he speaks and flag that it is the flag he was slaughtering, etc. So it's not about the dramatic text, it's not about the movie, it's about the round table that's organized. I can't figure it out. Not only is that not true. Next, I can't imagine the same thing, here's one man, and that's Philip David. Let me mention this list, I don't have a problem polluting them whenever they want and whoever they want. Eighty-eight intellectuals from the region, and here from Belgrade. Allow the honourable MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, behind each word I will really stand and stand with arguments and sources. Let's take the turn, Latina Perovic, in the 1970s, developing Serbia and Yugoslavia from the base of liberalism. It's already been done in science. On the other hand, Savka Dabčević Kučar was looking for extra chauvinism in Croatia, a pandan on this side. Let's move on with the signatories, Stjepan Mesic, so imagine, I know him very well from the Croatian Parliament. Only two sentences to quote, in the Croatian Parliament when he was president of the Yugoslav Presidency, he said, these are not journalistic articles, originally, in the material, I quote – gentlemen MPs, I have done my job in the presidency of the SFRY, Yugoslavia is no longer, the alleged signs have been completed. This same Stjepan Mesic, I will not go to the generalogy of Marko Mesic, the 1990s at the pre-election meeting in Gospić there were 10,000 Croats, 10,000 held umbrellas, because the rain was falling extremely, he said, I quote – when we Croats have a state, not if we are, but when we Croats create a state, all Serbs in Krajina will bathe in blood, finish quote – and stop under one umbrella. Let's move on, he presents himself as a great anti-fascist today, you've heard these days, about Jasenovac I won't tell you what he said, you know very well, and that's below every minimum of human dignity. Let's move on to these others, Milan Kučar, in the 1990s I called him, I have to say, on the 14th. The Congress of the Communist Union as one of the destroyers of Yugoslavia, because in Mladina he allowed himself to be through the Youth, and you remember very well, because I know you remember well, because of the breaking of Yugoslavia and Šuklje, who was an ambassador after Slovenia here in Serbia, I don't know if it is yet, etc. I'll tell you why I'm saying this. Let's move on, Bogic Bogicevic, a member of the presidency of the former SFRY, with his vote the military administration was introduced. They're doing their biographies, but we'll hear them next. Let's move on, Azem Vlassi, I have no words. I think all citizens know that well. Ivo Cerbo Rastoder, a historian in Montenegro, is one of the largest anti-Serbs in the Balkans today. Nikola Samardzic, historian, Belgrade, one of the biggest, let's say contemporary Serbian haters. You heard his stance on Serbia's influence on events in Montenegro. Do you know why he says that, respected citizens, whom I respect as fellow historians, but I don't respect what he's doing? So because he teaches at one of Djukanovic's universities downstairs, he gets money. For the money, it's working. I feel sorry for his father, who is one of the greatest historians and the greatest Serbs in all. Let's move on, another part, Sonja Biserko, as you know one of the really great anti-Serbs, still beneath it was only Natasa Kandic. I'm not talking about Natasha Kandic. You will read this in one scientific paper by our two scientific workers, so you will see what she was doing in the area of the former Yugoslavia. We move on, Philip David, 28 years of Satanizing the Serbian people. Let me say a few sentences, though, because he's doing what he did in 1990 these days. What's he doing? Philip David said on Radio Sarajevo on March 7, 2018, quote – Alexander Vukic's policy is schizophrenic, finished quote. And on June 6, 2009, I quote -- Kosovo is not Serbia, nor will it ever be, a quote. That puts him amongst the traitorous bastards of our country. I am sorry that his people are defiled, who have endured severe hardships through history, as my people have also done, and this does not serve him in honor. Furthermore, he insulted the Nobel Prize winner because he was on the side of Serbia during the NATO alliance's aggression. He was a man on the right side, Peter Hank. Because he was at the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic, and Philip David wants his biography like all these signatories to wash, but history does not forgive me, nor them, nor you, nor anyone here. That he does not forgive a single piece of information best, that one current politician, who is never here, who runs separatism in Serbia for the Vojvodina area, because he tried to destroy a document when they extradited Milosevic, which one party president did not sign, and the full archives of that, couldn't even destroy in the archives. Let's move on, to Philip David, he said this for the Nobel Prize winner, quote – Handke is a moral character, his moral click is zero, finished quote. Because he opposed NATO bombing. Imagine. I can tell you five hours of famous historians and Western politicians who have confessed to the Serbian people and condemned NATO aggression, only our domestic NATO dusters are not. Now, that's the problem. Let's move on. I could point out, not only Peter Handke, but four, here's what I'm saying, four academics who supported our fair fight against the NATO Alliance and the bombing, one Englishman, since I don't have time, one Italian, one Russian and one Portuguese. All Nobel laureates, not to mention other scientific workers, etc. Philip David said for the day of his victory over fascism, when we introduced it to Nis with General Vladimir Lazarevic at the helm that it was an abuse of that day. This government has introduced a salvi Dan victory over fascism. What Serbian President Alexander Vukic did not invite on the day of the start of World War II, a great thing. I guess we're not celebrating the beginning of the war, but the day of victory, hopefully this year we'll celebrate it together to the anti-fascists, etc. Furthermore, on May 14, 2019, in one list again, I quote - Alexander Vukic's policy is not going anywhere. Mr. David, your people and my people have lived hard days, for the victory of fascism has given your people many sacrifices. Only in Jasenovac, somewhere, according to me, about 40,000, by me, by your people, and by my people, 700 thousand minimum. It's not right to do that. Let's let the historians do it, they'll do it on the basis of historical buildings. As for Alexander Vukic, he is a Serbian statesman, a spray reformer, above all, a Serbian patriot. I know why you, Mr. David, are doing it. For a handful of money. That, if it's from you, it's a lot and it's sad. Let's move on. There's, you've seen, and the press is set. Here, I'll tell you right now, I think one, you saw that I read one piece of not only scientific workers, but also journalists, and politicians, from politician Natasa Micic, MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is never there, not from the boycott, but from earlier on, she doesn't care. She's interested in other things, she's one of the culprits of breaking Serbia and Yugoslavia. Cedomir Jovanovic, not to speak. Nenad Canak, I'm not talking. Bojan Kostresh, not to speak. So let's move on. Here he is, Dinko Gruhonjic, a journalist. One of the reporters, the charlatan. He'd be better off being a political activist than a journalist. Tomislav Markovic, journalist. Shame on a liar and a hostappler. Mr. Tomislav Markovic, take the records of this assembly, so when you quote, you see what anyone has told them. And, not to mention, I still have only two names, Mijat Lakicevic, shame, and Snow White Congradin, bottom of the journalistic profession. Gentlemen journalists, politicians, the ones I called 888 of you, I will finish with this quote by John Svington, former chief of staff at the New York Times in a toast held outside the New York Press Club in 1953. I quote -- it's the job of a journalist to destroy the truth, to lie openly, to twist, to offend, to bow before a golden calf, and to sell their own land and people to earn bread. Everybody knows that. Then why all the praises about the independent press? We are the tools and servants of the rich behind the scenes, we are the puppets in our hands, and the ends are led by someone behind us. Our talent, our opportunities, our lives are the property of other people. In the end, we're intellectual prostitutes, finished quote. Gentlemen, the ones I've listed and which I haven't, you're intellectual prostitutes. In the end, let me not further list them, Mr. Minister, be happy that you belong to a government and for a time that raises the country from chaos, not in culture, but in finance, in the military, because it was in ruins led to bankruptcy. All of you who are calling Mr. President and you, Mr. Majic, every evening on "N1", so you are not a judge, you are a politician, you deal with clean politics every night. Now, here's to saying, "The impression of the week," of six of those questions, is six times the president of the state. He's commenting as a judge and asking how do we know about a drug dealer? I'll tell him to go to the National Library of Serbia, every student knows about him and from us researchers, to go to the library of the Serbian Academy of Sciences, to go to the pub, to the restaurant every one, to Belgrade, and he asks where from the investigation. Well, there's no one who doesn't know. Every student of ours knows that, every student knows about drug dealers. Whose side is that on? You know who that judge is, and he won't say it, my predecessors said it today and these days, so he freed that gnarly group. He's not ashamed. He has no idea about the trial, let him apologize, he has no idea. If he did, he wouldn't show up where he shows up. Pure political activist. So, in that sense, I'm sorry, it's been a little while, but we had some things to clarify. We give full support to these laws, two laws and one proposal to supplement and amend laws, especially the Law on Archive and Library Construction. It is the first time we have set it up and I believe that we have courted the system now and in culture and it is up to us to implement deeper reforms, the Serbian Progressive Party will do so at the head with our president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68841	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68842	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, culture is a difficult definition, culture is a broad term, and I would say culture is a set of material and spiritual forms of a nation. Culture was from 2000 to 2012, until the SNS came into power, completely collapsed. What do you think it's called, unculture, but it's a weak term for vandalism experienced by this beautiful building, I think it's one of the most beautiful buildings not only in Belgrade, but in all of Serbia, and perhaps in the whole Balkans, along with the town hall, with the Academy of Science, what do you call it? Unculture? It's just work, it's vandalism, so shame on them. That's when the entire collection of priceless art values was stolen. What do you call it? Unculture? But today I would like to talk about culture and what we did when we came to power in 2012 so far, by 2020, did well for this culture. Culture is a way of life. You need to be a good man, you need to be spiritual, you need to leave something to future generations, not take. We haven't renovated this basement downstairs yet, because you can't even get close to the arson she's done. There, they say to themselves they're elite. I don't think so, but fine, so be it. When we come to power, the guests come to us and say, "I come from wherever I go, I want to see their National Museum, show us the National Museum." Our national museum hasn't worked since 2003, closed, closed. Thanks to the president, thanks to the government and to you, Mr Minister, we have finally opened the National or National Museum in Belgrade. After 15, 2018 on Vidovdan. Also, it doesn't work the Museum of Contemporary Art, it hasn't worked for ten years, since 2007, we've renovated it again. There's always that money. There's no money. There's money when there's work, order and discipline. There's always money to renovate cultural heritage. We opened in 2017 and the Museum of Contemporary Art, and not only that, but after 10 years we passed three new laws, because we deal with culture, we deal with culture every day. We live culture. We passed the Law on Public Information and Media, we passed the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Public Media Services. In addition, a Media Register was introduced, making the media ownership structure visible. For the first time, the law defined public interest in the field of public information and introduced a project co-financing of media content of public interest. Also, through the competition "Towns in Focus" the Ministry of Culture and Information launched in 2016, there was decentralisation. You remember, somehow everything was focused on Belgrade. That's when it happened, and now decentralisation is happening, that's what our president talks about all the time, and we finally have a demetropolization. So it invests in the entire Republic of Serbia, invests in all cities, revitalizes theatres, will be over in less than a year at a theatre in Subotica that has not worked for so many years. In 2018, a record billion and five million dinars were identified for the Serbian Film Centre. Construction works and equipment of the tv building we released two days ago have been completed. Remember, after the bombing, there was one ruin, now it's not, again thanks to the government and our president, the Ministry of Culture, but not just that. The Ministry of Culture and Information has also implemented a series of actions, which has been initiated by the adoption of several regulations aimed at the protection and preservation of languages and letters. That's how it works. I'm actually proud to live in this country that is exposed to various attacks. She's experienced as little as any country in the world, yet there's so much cultural and spiritual and so much we can leave to our children, that it's my honor to talk about culture today. Serbia's culture is also richer for a digital tool that collects data from information systems that are used in archives, museums and libraries. Namely, it is a search engine for Serbia's cultural heritage and today more than 2.5 million data is available on the search engine. After seven years in 2019, the reconstruction of the theatre in Vranja "Bora Stankovic" was completed. Serbia's Cultural Centre in Beijing opened in November 2018. That's very nice of me, that's how diplomacy develops. The church museum in Sentendrea was also renovated. The project of completion of the church museum in Sentandreja is the most important project in the region in 2019. The Museum of Contemporary Art in September 2019 opened the exhibition "Current", the first major European retrospective Marina Abramovic. We've got somewhere to open it. One more thing, everyone was talking about it, and I can't help but say it, the agreement was signed, because it is the most important thing, between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation, to hand over the Petersburg Gospel to the Republic of Serbia and the paintings of Nikolai Konstantinovich to the Russian Federation. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on the surrender of the Petrovic list of the Republic of Serbia and the paintings of Nikola Konstantinovich Rerich to the Russian Federation was signed on 19 October as part of a visit to the Russian Federation of Serbia's prime minister, with a view to marking 75 years since Belgrade's release in World War II. The agreement is in the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has managed to reach the text of an agreement that is in the interest of both sides for two years of negotiations with the Russian Federation. The Peacekeeper's Gospel, held today at the National Museum in Belgrade, is the oldest Serbian Cyrillic manuscript and was found to be culturally beneficial in 1979. It contains close to 300 miniatures of romantic style, richly decorated with gold. Its universal value for the world heritage of humanity was recognised in 2005, when it was included in the UNESCO register "World Memory", because of its unique beauty and style that connects the East and West, etc. I just need a few more sentences on spiritual heritage, and it concerns Kosovo and Metohija, our southern province, which was and was. The monastery Decani, the Pećka Patriarchy, the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška, the monastery of Gracanica, the temple of St. Vasili Ostroško and the Fortress in Leposavić, the monastery of the Head of St. John the Baptist in Stočanica, the monastery of St. Cosma and Damjan in Vračev, Banjska, the spiritual and tourist center of Rajska Banja, the Temple of the Turning of the Lord in Prilužje. Albanian extremists have destroyed and severely damaged over 100 Orthodox churches and monasteries. What do you call it? With vandalism, inhumanity, in culture, it's an honor. I will vote in the voting day, of course, for all proposed laws on culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68843	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68844	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will remain in my presentation at the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the handover of the Petersburg List of the Miroslav Gospel to the Republic of Serbia and pictures of Nikolai Konstantinovich Rerich to the Russian Federation. Dearly beloved, although we all know the creation and history of the Gospel of Miroslav, I will take the opportunity to say a few words about him. Namely, the Gospel is a manuscript dating back to around 1180, with miniatures of exceptional beauty and is a representative of a group of illustrious manuscripts with specific style iconographic features that are the result of the merger of elements from the west, here I refer primarily to Italy, and the east, in Byzantium. This Serbian manuscript with the concept of decoration that is common to the cultural model of Orthodox Slovenes and with the style of miniatures that comes from medieval centres of copying work, is actually one of the most important testimonies of artistic influential paths that went from the west to the east and vice versa. The first preserved Serbian illustrated manuscript from the 12th century was written with Cyrillic in ancient Slovenian, has status, as we heard, of national relics and has been declared a national cultural good of exceptional importance. Miroslav's Gospel is also one of the most beautiful manuscript books of the world whose meaning has been verified globally by the fact that since 2005 it has been included in the UNESCO World Memory List, on which for now there are only 120 documents of exceptional and global, or universal importance. The name was obtained by its curator, Prince Miroslav, the brother of the great mayor Stefan Nemanje, is assumed to have been written and decorated in the church of St. Peter and Paul in the White Field, in his commission, by its composition, the Gospelist – a book in which the texts are distributed according to readings during the church year. The text of the Gospel of Miroslav was written in two columns, in black, and most of the titles were red. The book contains, as we have heard, 296 miniatures that are drawn with a feather, and then painted with a brush, red, green, yellow, white and decorated with gold. After almost a century and a half since one piece of paper, number 166, was taken to Kiev, and the Gospel as a whole donated to King Alexander Obrenović and from the Holy Mountain to Serbia, we have been given the opportunity, namely, to declare as MPs the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the surrender of the Petersburg Gospel of the Republic of Serbia and the painting of artist Nikola Konstantinovich Rerich to the Russian Federation. The agreement stipulates that the number 166 paper is to be torn from the whole, finally returned to the country. I believe this agreement is of enormous and immeasurable importance to both our culture and our national identity in general. Unfortunately, relics and art items that were created at the time, when Serbia was a medieval country, were kidnapped, stolen, resold into delicacy and today adorn European and world museums, or collections of individuals, collectors, while we were left with lectures on these and such objects and relics, which we could not, or could not, save for ourselves and our offspring. I hope it's past time to disintegrate everything that's valuable to our culture, our history and our nation. I hope, too, that the time is coming to gather and the time to return, all relics and artistic objects to Serbia. Let this agreement be the first, but I want both to you and all of us, and to all future assembly councils, as many of these agreements as possible and as many relics and art items returned to our country to Serbia. In the end, I would also like to comment on the scandalous tweet Vesna Pesic. What she's done is, I really have to use these words, you'll forgive me, it's really horrible and disgusting and inadmissible. This tweet is a clear call to the murder of the president of a state, no matter what she thinks privately, her public appearance is against the law. No one has the right to express his political impotence and incompetence in this way and that he wants to replace the legitimately elected president of the state by calling for murder. After all, she and her comrades have shown the past, they have shown that they are only capable of destroying the state, dispossessing the people, making themselves comfortable, so when they are taken away, they do not choose the means to return to the chairs and continue where they left off. Really, scandalous and sick. I can only describe a direct call to a murder with those words, but they can be ignored and now they're acting as victims as they please. It's a waste, because we all saw, with our own eyes, how they call for a pipe to be pointed at Mr. Alexander Wolfich's head. I don't have anything further to say about it, it's all very clear to everyone. In the voting day, we will support all the bill proposals, my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group and I, together with them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68845	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68846	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, I will be very brief, for what I say after a full-day debate and after such a good presentation by Professor Atlagic. I'd rather confess to talking about the Ministry's work on information, about the unprofessional relationship between the United Media Group today what it does and what it publishes, about unculture on social networks, but good. I'll say a few words and I'll say a few words that someone said before me a long time ago. The historical archive preserves the heritage and identity of a nation, which is an institution that remembers both the heritage of the past and the history of a state. It is an institution that recalls the importance of preserving the same state's cultural identity. Why did I mention this? I mentioned it because I always perform here and as a local patriot. The city of Kraljevo has a historical archive, not just a city of kings. The historical archive, which has 60 years of existence, the historical archive and the municipalities of Vrnjačka Banja and the municipality of Raška. Also a large part, the archive section of KIM territory, is kept in the historical archives of the King. That same historical archive in the King, is, I'd say extraterrestrial, or has no property, he's a tenant in two locations. One location is the main central one where the historical archive has been for 60 years, and this is an object that has been returned to the Zici monastery by restitution, and the Zic monastery, since 2008, and not to say intensively since 2017, to return what is theirs. Another location is the location at the University of Kraljev University Machine College, again on some other person's property. By understanding the Ministry of Defence, the historical archive received a location, or city of Kraljevo, it was located on the street of Chika Ljubina in the Kingdom to make available to the historical archives to resolve its existential issue, which is the storage of an archive building. I would only ask the Minister and the Ministry to do whatever is in the power of the Ministry to help, whether in the renovation of that building, whether by addition, because we know that the law is defined and the city of Kraljevo, most of the cost and the dream and the salary, Vrnjaka Banja and the municipalities, I think they bear the material costs and that's arranged properly. There, I'd like to thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68847	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68848	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, culture and archival structure. You can only prove the culture of a nation through the history of archival structure, which should be witnessed. These days in Montenegro, it almost doesn't help the archival structure, and imagine it's gone. Speaking of Montenegro and the cowboyry and revolutionary methods that a part of a people's culture wants to turn into a culture of people that has been created in the last 12 years, so history is trying to adapt to today's circumstances, especially in Montenegro, but historical and archival structures say otherwise. Official Montenegro claims that the Serb army occupied Montenegro, that it took away their church and that the decision of the Podgorica Assembly was recognition of the occupation, but archive construction says otherwise. The Serbian army, chasing Austro-Hungarians, has passed through the occupied territory of today's Montenegro, chasing occupiers, but if Milo Djukanovic wants to annul the decision of the Podgorica Assembly and to declare Serbs to the occupiers, he should know that these alleged Serbs occupying, chasing Austro-Hungarians, have freed the entire coast, both Slovenian and Croatian and Montenegrin, i.e. what belongs to them today. Alexander fought hard with the Allies to keep that shore. Only by communist redistribution did the coast belong to Montenegro, and that is what any archival structure will show. When Milo Djukanovic does not recognise the Podgorica Assembly's decision, if he already says Serbia has occupied parts of Montenegro, then it should say that the Podgorica Assembly has declared itself on the territory of then Montenegro, and then Montenegro has a coast from Ulcinj to Sutomor. Isn't that right, Mr. Martinovic? Well, if the alleged Serbian occupations are already denied, if the decisions of the Podgorica Assembly are denied, then acts of territory should also be given up. Archival structure says Boka Kotorska joined the Kingdom of Montenegro in November 1918, but the Kingdom of Serbia. The same is true of the congregation in Ruma and the Great National Assembly in Novi Sad, Backa, Baranja, and Banat. In coat of arms, Boka Kotorska, the National Major Assembly of the coat of arms settlements and Boka Kotorska, decided to join the Kingdom of Serbia. Today, on the basis of this archival building, it would be very easy to prove that we were wrong and it is the testimony of our mistakes. We freed others. That's what we paid in the first war with 30% of Serbian heads. He educated Yugoslavia first. We paid the other with our own skin, but they educated her under the leadership of an enemy soldier from World War I. She was educated by others, assigning territories that belonged ethnically to us. Later, the Serbs kicked out of the Constitution, then out of their houses. We need to learn from all our mistakes, we need to learn that at a time when everyone fought against us, we fought against ourselves. Instead of charging the defeated for war damage, we've been honoring them with the state. Any archival structure can also prove that we are trying to oppose the representation of historical facts in today's circumstances. Even so, in Europe, there are such attempts to make historical events and events from World War I and II performances in today's international and social relations. We need a lot to learn from the historical building how we have honored others to our own harm, how we have paid with our skin and heads small nations the establishment of states. Today they are trying to make the former Yugoslav republics a habit they acquired during these unfortunates while they ruled, to treat Serbia as those who left the SFRY, to treat Serbia as the rest of the SFRY. They have become used to keeping Serbia in a kind of protectorate of the former Yugoslav republics during Tadic. That's the habit they want to stretch today. In Montenegro, it's just an attempt to build up an artificial nation, end history. Only the archival structure can help us, but to remember - Dimitrije Ruvarac wrote to the Croats the book "Here's what you're to blame for". If he were alive today, he'd write it all himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-21-0.u68849	Thank you. Since no one is answering anymore, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 9 to 11 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
