ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Check your cards, please, each of you check your card, because your screen says this much, and when you have inserted your cards in, it's much less. Here, bring the temporary cards, the one who doesn't think he's in the system. Whoever thinks his card isn't working, please call me right now, otherwise I have to take a break. Who? (Milojevic Milosav: It is not right for me. All right, we'll wait a minute, two minutes. But please check the rest of your cards in this little break. Throw them in, for example. I urge you to insert your identification cards into the MPs' units so that we can finally determine how many MPs there are in the O.R. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, we have 124 MPs, and we have no conditions for starting today's session. (Katarina Rakic: No replacement card has been delivered. Then it would be 125, so I don't know how many cards I have to wait another 35 minutes. So I ask the heads of Parliament to tell me how long it takes to start working. Since I don't have an answer, please... (Marian Risticevic: Then count. No, I won't count anyone, thanks for the suggestion. So we do not have a majority of the total number of all MPs present, therefore there are no conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In view of this, and in accordance with Article 88(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I interrupt the work of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured, or by 11:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask all MPs to check their cards and make sure their units are working. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall and that we have the conditions to continue the work and session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and exceptional for Monday, so other than those laid down in Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts on the agenda set out at the request of the Government. Logs of the Sixth, Seventh and Eightth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were delivered to you in 2019. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the Minutes from those sessions. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote The minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, held on 20, 21, 22, 25, 26, 27 and 28 November 2019. I conclude the vote: for 126, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 6th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, held on 28 and 29 November and 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 December 2019. I conclude the vote: for 126, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. I put to the vote The minutes of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, held on 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 December 2019. I conclude the vote: for 126, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, with the majority of votes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, the following is set: Dje v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law on hydrographic activity, submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, which was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic; 6. Proposal for a law amending the Act on specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a Law on Special Procedures in order to implement projects for the construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, which the Government has submitted; 8. Proposal for a law on the register of spatial units and the address register submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the conversion of the right of use into property rights on building land with the compensation of the Government; 10. Proposal for a decision to take away the properties of good in the general use of the part of the railway infrastructure submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a decision to take away the properties of good in the general use of the part of the railway infrastructure submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, which was submitted by the Government; 13. Proposal for a law confirming Annex 1 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects submitted by the Government; 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act submitted by the Government; 15. Proposal for a census law, households and apartments in 2021, which was submitted by the Government; 16. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (Process for Competitive Agriculture) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government; 17. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (additional financing for the Project to improve the land administration in Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government; 18. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia (as credit user) and T.C. Ziraat Bankasi A.d. And Denizbank A. (as Creditor) submitted by the Government; 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (Delivery of Vehicles for Serbia Train) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government and 20. The draft law confirming the LD 2009 Framework Agreement (2019) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on a project loan for the construction of a new University Children's Clinic, Tirshova 2 in Belgrade, which was submitted by the government. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Article 170 and Article 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled single search be carried out on points 1 to 13. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 126, against – no one with abstentions – has a total of 126. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. We are moving on to a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 13 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Aleksandra Damnjanović and Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary, Jovanka Atanakovic, Master of Đorđe Milić and Zoran Ilic, Assistant Minister, Veljko Kovacevic, Lazar Radaković and Saša Stojanović, Deputy Minister of Transport, Mirjana Cizarov, Director of Civil Aviation of the Republic of Serbia and Vinka Milanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. Madam Prime Minister, welcome to Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on points 1 to 13. Does the Proposer, or the Proposer's representative, want a word? The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69394	Thank you. Good afternoon, Honored Chairman, dear MPs and MPs, thank you first for accepting that we discuss 13 points today, namely the bill adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at its regular meetings, or at its regular sessions. I will say a few sentences about each of these laws very briefly, but I believe that in the principle debate, as well as in the debate on amendments, we will be able to possibly improve these bill proposals. So before you is the draft law on special procedures for the implementation of projects of construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. At the end of 2019, we finished, released 350km of highways, over 300km of rails reconstructed, opened a third international airport. So we have a lot of experience in what is called realising important infrastructure projects of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, aware of the many problems we have just had in solving the problem, i.e. the property issue, this is one law that should help and enable us to actually be much faster and more efficient as a state in the realisation of infrastructure projects that are of particular importance to the Republic of Serbia. This means that everything we start with our new investment plan "Serbia 2025" we really want to be the fastest and most efficient done and built. In that sense, this law is in front of you. So we want to solve property-legal issues much more effectively, to reduce certain procedures. Not for a moment, of course, not at the expense of the rights of users of expropriation, and I believe that from the bill of this bill you could see it. I also want to say that we believe that this proposal, i.e. this draft law, can help us to make much more efficient use of budgets, that we use credit resources much more efficiently, can, too, allow us not to get into a situation where we need to be late in the realisation of certain infrastructure projects, and also, in that sense, that the contractors themselves on major infrastructure projects simply don't have the opportunity to betray us so-called. the pliers, i.e. the penalty, because maybe the investor didn't do what it stands for in certain contracts. I will also tell you that, for example, in these new projects that we are planning to do, which is the beginning of this year, in 2019, infrastructure projects, so, highways, fast roads, high-speed railways, investments in airports, water traffic, we expect that only if we talk about property-legal relations we solve questions about 50,000 parcels only on those shares that concern highway construction. So that's one serious, big deal, and that's why this law is right here in front of you, to try to be in that sense much faster. The second draft law is on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. In addition to what we are really doing in all the laws, it is that we adapt to European norms, European legislation, after all, everything we have done through the Law on Planning and Construction has produced results. Serbia today is the ninth in the world to issue building permits. Serbia today has over 300% more construction sites than it was five years ago. So we did well in the Law on Planning and Construction. Now we want, when we improve certain norms of the law, and especially within this bill, to deal with the issue of licenses, licensing of both engineers, architects and spatial planners. What we did was two important things. One that we have reduced the number of procedures, administrative procedures to get to the license, but on the other hand we have obliged all those engineers who get their licenses to have continuous education, that they must, like all other professions, be educated daily in their own areas. The third law ahead of you seems to me one, like all others, very important to the citizens and citizens of Serbia, is the proposal for a law on the register of spatial units and an address register. One thing is indeed defeating for all of us, three million people in Serbia still have no street numbers, no street names. Of those three million, 2.2 million practically have no street name, no number, and three million in the most part have no street number, not to mention, in the meantime, that units of local self-government have made some of their internal records so they can communicate with people at all, which has caused even more problems. Serbia's government is from many documents and regulations that it felt we should have one serious law, because as we have the Central Population Register, as we have the register of economic operators, as we have the immobility register, we have to have the address register, and that's the essence of this bill somewhere. Then, there is the Bill on Amendments to the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of the Security Forces. You know we're in this big project. The first apartments will already be somewhere in late February, early March in Vranj. We start construction near eight thousand apartments and call tenders by the end of April. The only change in this bill is the increase in tardiness, so from six to eight floors we propose to do this law then, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the conversion of the right of use into property rights on building land with compensation. You know we defended the law here before you in 2015, I think, with the desire to really solve these issues. It turned out that this was not effective enough and that the underlying problem was in a bank guarantee that was given for a huge number of years. In that sense, one of the main amendments to this law, and in order to finish these jobs as soon as possible, is that the bank guarantee will be within five years with all the things that are necessary to be, to ensure security. So no one is free of payment, no concessions are made anywhere, but we're simply looking at how to solve the final question through this law that we haven't had the same problems in years. So far, otherwise, it's been charged through this bill by about 800 million dinars. One part of course goes to the Restitution Fund, one part goes to the state budget, and one part goes to the budgets of local self-government where the land is located. Then there is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. The fact is that we opened 350km of highways, only in 2019, 120km of roads, that it was necessary to coordinate the driving lines. In this regard, we have, among other things, changed this law, but we have also done to reduce many, what we have seen and seen, many administrative procedures and procedures, to bring them down to the smallest possible number to ensure that Serbian citizens have really the best quality and best service in this area. Also, there are two laws in the field of water traffic, i.e. the Law on navigation, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters and the Proposal for a law on hydrographic activity. I want to say that so far we have not had a law on hydrographic activity, although all the countries around us have it, it's very important for the safety of navigation and very important for the quality of technical documentation, that's what we could really do in the previous period to see that our system is missing. As for shipping law and ports on internal waters, large differences, tectonic differences have been made precisely in water traffic for the past few years. We are talking about investment today, projects worth water traffic along with investments in ports close to half a billion euros, so about 500m euros, to really have this in the best, most efficient and rational way, so they are here to make some proposals. So, one part of the jurisdiction is transferred from the Port Management Agency to the Resort Ministry, or to the Ministry of Transport, but another newspaper was made in the proposal for this law, which is that we have determined the minimum level of rentability of port services. Once upon a time, there was not much thought about it, and we took care of it and what the port area is and what the port infrastructure is, but also the minimum level of rentability. I believe that there will be a lot of questions and a lot of conversations. Then, in front of you is the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, above all, further harmonisation with European legislation. We are, somewhere, when we look at all the areas of transport, somewhere closest to European standards right in air traffic. There were certain areas related to air security, which also had to be done in this regard. There is also an air agreement with the Republic of Iran, and Annex 1 to the Agreement between Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Turkey, in the area of infrastructure. Turkey and I have good co-operation in the area of infrastructure. After all, these are the countries with which we work on important highways, and there are two proposals for a decision to take the properties of good in the general use of the railway infrastructure. Right away, it's a railway infrastructure that doesn't even exist at some 400km, and it's being run in the "railway" books and, of course, it's being paid certain fees that are necessary. Today, we want the railway to continue to develop, and in this sense, the decisions made several years ago in railway companies, confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that what is not used, for which there is no interest or unit of local self-government, is simply being shut down, because there is no traffic for years, and we are investing and making basic corridors, as you know, and down from Belgrade, Nis, Presevo, as well as the Bars and regional railways. I tried to be brief, because I believe we will discuss this debate in principle. I wish us all a successful debate and I hope we have more good, better laws after this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69395	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Marija Jevdzic answered, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69396	We have several laws proposed by your Ministry, Mrs Mihajlovic, on the agenda today. The JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed amendments to the law. The proposed Law on Planning and Construction is another step, as you said, as best as possible by harmonising domestic legislation with EU regulations, as well as by defining standards that will allow Serbia to take the best place on the "Ding Business List" of the World Bank and because of our citizens, I want to remind that Serbia is the only country from the Western Balkans that has progressed on the "Ding Business List" and we are currently in 44th place, and when we look at 2012, we were even in 92nd place. I think that the most significant changes to this law concern professional qualifications, i.e. the issue of licences to engineers, architects and spatial planners and maximum inclusion of the profession, which unfortunately was insufficiently represented in the previous period, and therefore there were various problems, such as breaking deadlines and plans. The structure must be an equal partner and I hope that after the adoption of this proposed law on planning and construction, conditions will be created to transfer licensing to Serbia's Engineering Chamber, that the Chamber will get its jobs back and thus improve the position of the structure. Speaking of Serbia's Engineering Chamber, I would like to say that for the first time since the existence of the ICC, one woman has been elected at the head, which has shown that as a society we have matured for gender equality, in all segments of society. We are expected by a large number of infrastructure projects, and the profession has to be included as much as possible, because the same goal is both the profession and the state, which is the realisation of all planned projects within the deadline, and all in order to improve the standard of living of Serbian citizens. Otherwise, in late December, President Vukic presented Serbia's 2025 programme, which planned 14 billion euros to be invested in infrastructure and development projects. Last year, construction of four highways was launched and two new highways were planned. But for me as a JS MP coming from Raška region, i.e. from Kralje, the most important start of the construction of the Moravia Corridor and I want to take advantage of the opportunity for you to take the opportunity, on behalf of the citizens of the village of Sirce, Oplanić and Popovic, to thank that the original project has been amended and the bridge has been planned across the Morava River, and I am in the principle debate, when we discussed in the Assembly a special Law on the Moravian Corridor, pointed to their fear of being abolished and thus to prevent them from processing their fields that are on the other side of the river. The ministry recognized that, you promised in principle, the bridge was planned, but I asked you a question about about a month ago, referred to your ministry regarding the construction of an overpass that would be in the extension of the bridge, and that would preserve the link between the villages mentioned to the city itself and the industrial zone Magnohr, in which a large number of locals work. Of course, if the construction of overpasses is possible, not infringing the project, and on the other hand to help and facilitate the life of our citizens who have decided to stay in the country and resuscitate and preserve Serbian villages. I hope I get an answer soon. Once again, I want to point out the great importance of the Moravia Corridor, not only as important traffic, but which will be arranged by its construction of the West Morava trough, which in recent years, not to say decades ago, has caused enormous damage to this end during the spill. We had massive floods last year and three years ago, so we all know how much damage was done to that part of Serbia. We also have on the agenda a draft air traffic law, which regulates this area with European regulations, and you pointed out in your presentation, that we are somewhere near European regulations and that much has been done to bring them in line with European regulations. When we talk about air traffic, I want to mention the opening of Morava airport and to thank you for that and for you and President Aleksandr Vukic, for recognising the importance of the airport, not only for the raška end, but also for the golden-bore and Moravski, and that will complete the picture, together with the Moravski Corridor, for the faster and greater economic development of that part of Serbia. With the help of the state, I believe that in the short term and achieves a good business of the airport mentioned, as in last year, for example, already in the first quarter of the "Nikola Tesla" airport, more than a million passengers and the number of take-offs and landings increased by 3.57%, and in the course of 33 months, the airport recorded traffic growth. The country's pledge to turn Ponikve military airport into a civilian, talks about the readiness to develop Serbia regionally and create a better business environment for new investors to arrive. The bill itself specifically addresses the issue from the area of air security. For the first time in 2018, Serbia chaired a permanent Eurocontrol Commission, which is a European organisation that is responsible for the safety of air navigation. It is also a confirmation that as a state, we are constantly working to improve air traffic. In today's debate, we also have a proposal to amend the Law on special conditions for building apartments for members of security forces, and that is, as you said, an amendment to only one member. It is a Article 14 that increases the flooring of buildings that are built from six to eight floors. For JS this change is justified, since we have the information that as many as 18,000 security forces do not adequately resolve the housing issue and as a socially responsible society we need to identify and evaluate all those who have devoted their lives to serving the country and safeguarding its security. It is the project to build apartments for members of all security structures that is one of the indicators that Serbia takes care of them. We had, for example, a project in Nis that has been waiting for realisation since 2011, and was referring to the construction of a complex of residential units for members of the Serbian Army and finally began in September. More than 20,000 square meters of living space will be built there. Also, apartments are built in the King, Vranj, Kragujevac, Novi Sad. What is very important is that at least 80% will be included when building these housing facilities, which is certainly a good message for our domestic manufacturers of building products. The proposal for a law on special procedures for the realisation of infrastructure facilities is of particular importance to speed up the realisation of large infrastructure projects. Your ministry, Mrs. Mihajlovic, planned for 2020 to implement projects from a new investment cycle worth about $5 billion. It starts building four highways. The work on the French Corridor and we are witnessing that certain procedures could lead to a loss of time and management of the proposed law stemmed from previous experience, where the undefined provisions led to delays in the realization of the country's most important projects. The law sets out procedures which in practice have made it very difficult. Otherwise, the draft law was in public procedure and there were no objections from the institution or individual experts. I believe there will be no abuse in public procurement and expropriation procedures. There is a criminal policy, an inspection, as well as an independent body that has to control the implementation of the projects. We also have a proposal for two decisions relating to the takeover of properties, goods in general use, railway infrastructure, and this proposal eliminates around 400 km of rail on which traffic does not take place for a long time. Serbia is working to modernise rail traffic. 48 new trains have been purchased that traffic across Serbia. A new railway station has been opened at Prokup, Željev Bridge has been completed, the reconstruction of the track on Corridor 10 is about two billion euros, and certainly the beginning of the Belgrade-Budapest rapid track will be of particular importance. Investment in the modernisation of the railway has exceeded as much as four billion euros. Railway development monitors Serbia's development or Serbia's development monitors the development of the railway. Developed railways, especially freight means and developed economy. I have a little suggestion regarding staff rejuvenation, especially executive. You need to take young personnel and keep them here, especially engineers. I believe the state has a way of doing that, especially when we see how much it's been investing in rail and rail infrastructure lately. The draft law confirming the agreement between the government of Serbia and Turkey on co-operation in the area of infrastructure stems from the two countries' good bilateral relations. When we look at 2011 when Turkish investments in Serbia amounted to $1m, and in 2018 they reached as much as $200m, it is evident that co-operation is taking place on the upstream line and that projects that will benefit both countries' capacities should be worked on. ` The basic project is infrastructure integration in the Balkans, and Serbia is putting the emphasis on raising infrastructure in the Raška area and in co-operation with Turkey is the share of Novi Pazar-Senica, which costs about 24m euros. Turkey's President Recep Erdogan's visit is due in October 2019, when a high council on Serbia-Turkey co-operation was held and as many as nine agreements were signed. President Vukic's participation in Turkey's opening ceremony in Istanbul is an indicator of huge respect for Serbia, and the construction of Turkey itself is of great importance not only in terms of gas security, but also in high investment and a great deal of importance for Serbia's development and job growth. Our country's respect for leading a responsible foreign policy led by President Vukic and Minister Dacic is visible and Serbia has become a strong factor not only in the region, but also in Europe. The Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed laws on the agenda of this session. Unique Serbia will always support laws that build Serbia, modernise, strengthen infrastructure, all in order to raise the quality of our citizens, as well as the reputation of Serbia in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69397	Thank you, Mrs. Yevdzic. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69398	I thank the single Serbia for supporting the proposals of these 13 laws. Also with special reference to new projects that we are starting this year, i.e. five billion euros will be new projects that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is starting from this year 2019. Of course, next to the Moravia Corridor that you mentioned. It's not just the Moravia Corridor, it's the Frushkogori Corridor, then we've marked the beginning of the work on Ruma-Shabac-Loznica one part of the highway, the other part of the fast traffic. We've also already started our works on the Sremska Raca-Kuzmin section. So, our relationship with BiH. It's already a section of Preljina-Požega on the Milos the Great Corridor. We're starting this year and Valjevo-Iverak. We want to connect Valjevo with the highway. There is documentation for the shares towards the Bolsari, or the border with Montenegro. I believe this year we will begin our work on Nis-Pločnik, or Nis-Medare-Pristina in the third quarter of this year. They're all new highways. This year, project-technical documentation for the new highway, Vožd Karajordje. It is expected that only next year, so in 2021 we can expect work. So these are huge, capital projects that this government is starting, and these laws, like you said, can help us be faster and more efficient. You mentioned only at one point about the Moravia Corridor and your parliamentary question. For technical reasons this time it's not possible to do it, to have an overpass. This would further mean some other problems in this technical sense. I think we've answered your question. Regarding apartments for security forces, it has been estimated that nearly 19,000 people have no housing security, and they work at the military or the BIA. It is indeed one of the options, so this project is the right opportunity to meet these people and get quality housing, because they are not social housing, so they are apartments according to all European standards and they are finally solving their question. Thank you again for everything you've put forward as your view of these bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69399	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: I shall inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the National Assembly will work today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69400	Thank you. Dear Minister, respected guests from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, presently there are extremely important laws for the Republic of Serbia, laws that further define and coordinate Serbian construction with world standards, and of course will contribute to the economic activity that in this part of the industry only continues the trend of growth. I'll just specify some examples and some data that are important for growth in general construction activities for the previous period. In November 2019, a 1930 building permit was issued, which is 15.5% higher than November 2018. Viewed according to the type of building 78% was issued for buildings, while 22% was issued for other buildings. What is very important, it was thought by the indications that 2018 is record, when we talk about business activity in construction, however, indicators that we still have at the monthly level, because statistics for the year 2019 have not yet been completed, but this trend is about monthly, about 15% to 20%, and certainly, when the complete data for 2019 are processed, the previous year will be record when we talk about construction activity in the Republic of Serbia. The development of construction in each country requires and monitors certain standards prescribed by different directives, as well as the introduction of new standards that require and permanent amendments to laws defining the area of construction. With this and the Law on Planning and Construction, we often suffer changes, because as a country, we must comply with certain standards. Here we are specifically talking about the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications because this professional name gives the person the authority to perform regulated professions. We believe that this is extremely important for Serbian construction because in this way experts will be able to carry out their regulated professions and fail to satisfy their basic professional abilities that stem from the very definition of regulated profession, the passing of an expert examination that has been conducted by the Engineering Chamber so far, and will probably work in the next period that is carried out at one of the highest levels, as members of the commission are the most prominent experts, both from the order of science from the university and experts from the practices that have extremely reference jobs behind them. Since 2018, more specifically since October, the work of issuing licences has been taken over by the Ministry of Civil Engineering and, of course, the passing of an expert examination is only one of the conditions that a construction engineer had to fulfil to obtain a license and to renew. What this law introduces as a newspaper is the obligation of permanent improvement for all licensed engineers of all the professions in construction and that according to what is seen in the law in the coming period, there will be a series of sublegal acts that will further define the program of permanent training for construction engineers, architects, urbanists and, of course, spatial planners. They'll all have a name-- a licensed architect, a spatial planner, and I'm not counting any further. What is also very important is that the program of permanent training will be conducted by organisations that are accredited to carry out such education. I believe that the Ministry of Civil Engineering, as in the previous period, will include people from both profession and science, who will participate in the development of this sublegal act, which will absolutely be in the interest of education of expert personnel in construction. I want to give just one good example of the positive practices that we had at the Ministry of Construction, when we talk about the law on construction products, and when we talk about the creation of sublegal acts, where the Ministry of Civil Engineering insisted on the involvement of the economy in the making of sublegal acts, because it has indeed shown that in this way acts that come immediately to full application are adopted. In addition to the experts from the construction industry, the Commission included manufacturing experts, specifically manufacturing directors in certain factories, where, of course, on the basis of opinions from the industry and, as appropriate, the Ministry came up with concrete solutions and within the envisaged deadline, all sublegal acts that came into force at the end of the previous year, which in the economy for the previous year were characterised as one extremely good co-operation between the Ministry and the economy, which brings the sublegal acts fully in co-operation with the domestic economy, at the same time, not departing at all from European norms and all that we must respect as a state, but, on the other hand, in co-operation with domestic economy and work in the interests of our country and economy at all. When we talk about a program of permanent perfection, I want to point out one problem that has been observed in practice. The Union of construction engineers of Serbia consists of 10 professional organisations that have between 50 and 60 years of long tradition and a general programme of work of the Union of Construction Engineers and Professional Organizations, the Statute also provides for technical assistance programmes, permanent training and, of course, the organisation of the profession in order to monitor all European and world trends. The Alliance organises certain gatherings, whether within two or three years and thus really helps the professional public and makes it possible for certain and global achievements and achievements within our country to be applied in the best possible way. We don't need to send our experts into the world to get extra education, because we bring the world to us. Introductors are usually the most innovative experts to come by invitation from countries that have already applied certain standards that are, of course, applicable to us. But what's seen as a problem is the absence of young engineers from the economy at such gatherings. You'll agree with me, we can't get one businessman to send him to school and work on his permanent training. We've been dealing with this problem as an organization. You have a view of the economy where the businessman says it is now a private construction company -- why would he invest in a young engineer and be without him for three days and pay him a 100-euro quotation for a particular event if he doesn't have any guarantee tomorrow? He comes in one day and tells him he doesn't want to work here anymore, that he wants to go abroad, do his job there and perfect himself there. On the other hand, you have the attitude of engineers who say they don't want to work in the economy that way because they don't have the ability to improve further, if his boss doesn't want to let him or he doesn't want to allow him or pay for him a certain education. He believes that he cannot be competitive in the coming period and that he cannot perfect his knowledge and, of course, cannot adequately do his job during his entire working life. What's the recommendation? Since the Ministry of Civil Engineering will work in the coming period on permanent training programmes, it is recommended that the Ministry of Civil Engineering through programmes may provide public call or competition with the means to co-finance certain permanent training programmes for young engineers from the economy. I think that in universities and institutes it is quite well regulated by the latest amendments and additions of the Law on Science, because they have already been identified by the means of complementing, but the economy has no solution to the problem. I think this will make a significant contribution to this particular problem that has been recorded so far in practice. For us from the Social Democratic Party, education is extremely important, especially the education of young people and support for young people. I think that the state should show that these young engineers who work in the economy are needed and that this is one of the measures that can really help them change their opinion about staying in our country, but also their bosses might be able to change their thinking a little bit in that direction. What is another problem, and what is defined somewhere by conclusions from certain expert gatherings in construction that have been held over the past two or three years, is one big problem -- the importance of purchasing new field equipment, but also the lack of modern laboratory testing equipment. Consistent with the relevant standards in the area, here, geotechnics, because that's the biggest problem when we talk about infrastructure facilities, we've witnessed something that's been very dangerous and that in the last few years has started to significantly disrupt our lives. We thought natural disasters were impossible, but they happen anyway. And everything that happens in nature, of course, has a significant impact on the soil mechanics and affects certain problems and certain perhaps major damages that we had in the previous period, which are characterised as a lack of well-examination or perhaps some preventive measures to repair the damages that have occurred. Some new standards and new research are thought to be introduced in the previous period. What's the paper? This introduces a modern approach to research in the area of prevention and control of geological gambling. In this context, a comprehensive study of the impact of climate change on the state of infrastructure facilities is needed, with the planning of preventive measures to mitigate the consequences. We think the Department of Civil Engineering needs to find a way to help supply adequate equipment. In which way, whether in collaboration with another ministry, whether from budget funds, but since we are in a large investment cycle and that there is a strong pathway and roads and everything, here, and today we have laws that define the construction of new traffic and in the next two years there will be a lot of roads built, we have to have some preventive measures, because what happens to nature has a significant impact on the problems that perhaps at this point with the existing way of testing and equipment we can't predict. In its work plan and budget for 2020, the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure planned to launch projects from the new investment cycle, whose value was estimated at around 5 billion euros in infrastructure investments. All these facilities represent line infrastructure facilities, which are built in length of several tens of kilometers on different parcels. Of course, as you yourself said in your previous presentation, it requires special conditions. From this point forward, there is also a proposal for a law on special procedures for the implementation of projects of construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the SDPS, as a partner in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, believes that projects planned in this investment cycle are extremely important for the Republic of Serbia and will have positive effects to be seen through time savings, reducing transport costs, improving the accessibility of all parts of the Republic of Serbia. But what is very important is that building such infrastructure facilities will condition the construction of infrastructure facilities along the way, so we say in construction, tourism, business, by ensuring that all places in the Republic of Serbia are better accessible, and we believe that this is extremely important in general for business activity in the Republic of Serbia. We are also talking today about amendments to the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. And this is an extremely important project for the Republic of Serbia. This encourages the production of construction material in Serbia. I mean basic construction material that is not the subject of exports, which is of great importance to producers in Serbia, because for factories it is always more profitable to sell in its country, but to export such heavy material, which by transport only loses value. Thanks to this investment cycle, we have an increase in the sale of construction material in our country and we can boast that we have a stable production of construction material in Serbia and, of course, that enables factories to expand their capacities and employ a new workforce, which has been working over the past few years and has been working for the plan over the next two years. When we talk about this law, I can't, not to mention Article 38 relating to the choice of a strategic partner, because it is now predicted that as a strategic partner it will be possible to consider a consortium, as well as any related person, i.e. the face of a strategic partner. What's important to me is an opportunity for a domestic construction operation to team up and be competitive in tendering for a strategic partner. So far, there have been objections to the conditions prescribed for selecting a strategic partner. I believe that in the next period this member of the law will allow for greater participation of domestic construction operations. It is significant that during this investment cycle, the conditions of the domestic construction operation are ensured to provide references, because this is crucial for each of the next jobs. If the contractor has no reference to the jobs in the country they come from, which are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is difficult to be competitive anywhere in the world. As a state, we must also think about the development strategy of construction in the next period and in this direction, and it is my hope that in the next period, there will be a way for a domestic construction operation to be organised and to appear as a serious partner in the implementation of these very important infrastructure projects that are scheduled for the next three years. Due to all of this, SDPS MPs in the voting day will support the law on the agenda of today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69401	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69402	Thank you for supporting the drafts and drafts of the law. I'm just going to answer a few questions that you've asked here about permanent perfection. The practice, or experience we have from previous years, has clearly shown us that there have been many problems, and that is one of the reasons why it is now in the amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. I'll give you a few examples. When we started designing at all, for example, fast tracks from Belgrade to Budapest, so those first shares of Belgrade – Stara Pazova, Stara Pazova – Novi Sad, so on, we had a situation that our design houses with licensed, so the designers were not able to design a fast track of 200km per hour because our designers had almost never met with such a type of project. Then we found ways, so we made deals with Chinese companies, their design houses, they came here, trained our engineers, but it certainly wasn't a system-based thing. We had situations, too, to, for example. Members of the Audition Commission have never met some standards, according to other projects, which exist everywhere in the world, and for example, for the first time have been applied, etc. They were all reasons. There are many examples, and all of these were reasons why we insist that because of technologies that are constantly changing and perfecting, we must all perfect ourselves. In that sense, engineers who get, after all, and their licenses. These licences will now, among other things, be checked for three years, not for five years as before. In addition, to this, we have, among other things, changed the conditions for all to be a member of the Audition Commission of the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure. They can't be people who haven't, say, been on projects and worked on projects for years or they haven't done it, and all the teachers, doctors, etc., who haven't, say, published works in these areas, but people who can really, when they look at the documentation that they know what it's about, that they can clearly say whether there are problems, what needs to be fixed, etc. So, permanent training is very important for us here in law. Maybe we should have done it before, but I really don't think it's ever too late. You mentioned young engineers. The ministry also has an agreement with Serbia's Engineering Chamber, but whatever it is, we will have on all major projects, such a decision and we have made within the Ministry, so all major capital projects will have in their monitoring working groups, but in all teams with investors, it is, therefore, whether it is the Corridors, whether it is the Roads, whether it is the Ministry, whether the Railways, the construction director of Serbia will have an obligation, therefore, to hire young engineers. A young engineer cannot get a license, or license unless he has the experience required of it. It would be a vicious circle if we didn't do it. So we've made a decision and they'll be involved. One more thing, you mentioned a domestic construction operation. We, I think, built in early December of last year and the Serbian government formed a working group together with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, as well as almost all leading companies from various areas in the area of construction with a basic goal of improving conditions in construction, how to help these construction companies who, in addition to not having enough equipment... So that's one of the ways that we think we can find common language with the Ministry of Finance, which is that the state subsidizes the supply of equipment, but, on the other hand, how to help the other part, so when they can't set out certain banking guarantees, when they can't, practically, appear on some projects besides, of course, part three, their joint association in consortiums. So thank you for your comments. I think we're thinking about it somewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69403	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has Stefan Miladinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69404	Dear Minister, respected ministry associates, we have 13 proposals for different acts on the agenda and, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I will tell you that as a parliamentary group, we will support all the proposals of the acts. In this first part of the debate, I will refer to several draft laws and two decisions concerning railway infrastructure, while my colleagues, of course, will discuss further proposals on the agenda. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the realisation of housing projects for members of the security forces was adopted in May 2018 and then highlighted the importance and responsibility that security forces perform, i.e. they have in the security and security system of the entire state, as well as those who have made a significant contribution to security in earlier wartime activities, and that they deserve more attention from our country, and taking into account that, and you yourself mentioned that the largest number of outstanding housing issues are issues of government employees, precisely among security forces, which is around 19,000. Meaning, the responsibility of the security forces of the entire state, we will agree, is immeasurable. National security policy is also being implemented through the various measures and activities the state is taking to achieve its objectives, and this project undoubtedly contributes to strengthening confidence in the country, precisely those in the first security system ring. By amending and supplementing the law in 2019, we expanded this circle of persons who can achieve the possibility of buying an apartment under more favourable conditions, which we extended to persons, or fighters, members of the homes of fallen fighters, wartime military people with disabilities and peacetime military people with disabilities. Several times in this home, even then, we have pointed out the need to expand the circle of face to health employees, in education, in the scientific community. Today's amendments and additions to the law are of a technical nature and it concerns increasing the flooring of buildings that are being built, but it's a good opportunity for some of our ideas to be heard here. Migration movements cannot be stopped, but countries struggle through different national strategies to make people, as a basic resource, educate, stimulate and retain, but also create the conditions of life attractive and for the lives of foreigners. The currentity of climate change and pollution, as well as trends in modern construction must be the leader in construction, and there is the role of the state, we will agree, most important. I think we can go through these projects right now and we need to set standards for construction. Is that more expensive for the state? Yes, it is, in terms of the costs of construction itself, but it's a long-term multi-saving. This project and similar projects of national importance can give us a chance to set new conditions, employ not only the domestic construction industry, but also the scientific and technological community, our institutes, technology parks, motivate them to use and implement their technological innovations. Serbia needs new ideas, some new models of housing, or different habits of life, some of the habits that are being promoted in the world today, we have had some war and tragic times before, and this is one of the opportunities to return to them, but also to continue to change our consciousness and strive for a well-organised and human society. Imagine a national project to build a complex for scientific workers, e.g. a complex where, with the help of the state scientists have their own work space, they have housing units in which some of their patents are installed. I think that would be something to think about. We need, as I said, more humane settlements, adapted to the modern world, the modern way of thinking and the state as the biggest investor can be a strategic and example in this area. Today, we also have two proposals for taking away the properties of the goods in the general use of part of the railway infrastructure, a total length of 1,030 km. In making these decisions and similar ones, it is in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, because the Law on Railways prescribes that the National Assembly makes a strategy for the development of railways, but makes decisions on the general use of railways, i.e. railway infrastructures. The total length of the railway on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including the KiM railway, is 285, 881 km and 3,724 km respectively. The railway network, like any other infrastructure network, requires maintenance, and that certainly includes its use. It is clear that certain parts of the network, regardless of economic viability, must exist. It concerns some national, regional or local interests of certain areas, but we must be aware that if we want a high-quality and safe interoperable railway, we must invest in it. Although rail transport has numerous economic and ecological advantages compared to other types of traffic, greater efficiency of mass transport, passengers and goods, we must also be rational. When it comes to detachment from the infrastructure projects budget, we will agree that there is not much room for sentimentality. However, there are some railway lines or locations whose preservation could have both tourist and historical significance, thus and economically, such as the Blue Train, which my colleague Joschka Broz will talk about later. The rationalisation of the railway itself that we are discussing today, which means, as I said, the removal of a 1,000km rail line, is the result of talks with local self-government units on whose territory these railways are located. Since the 1960s and 1970s, on certain railway lines, rail traffic has been halted and decommissioned due to total technical uncertainty, i.e. insecurity and the lack of economic interest in investing in their maintenance. Of the proposed railways, a large number of rail tracks has been unmounted for many years and on numerous rails traffic has been suspended for decades. For the public, I would like to cite some of the examples, this is the Becej-Vrbas railway, a length of 37.5 km, whose passenger traffic was suspended in 1978, Žablj-Becej, 1978, Zrenjanin-Zitište 15 km long, this railway was closed for traffic in 1969, Jasenovo with the Romanian border in 1966, Mladenovac-Lajkovac e.g. The 75km track of the narrow track was closed for traffic in 1982 and unmounted. Should we be proud of this? Of course not. But reality makes us rationalize the existing network and, as we would say, repack the investments, and the land that is in use, the railways we step in for other content and carry out some kind of rescheduling. These two decisions taking away the properties of good in general use, works of railway infrastructure with a list of facilities and cadastrian parcels per catastrian municipalities are not the result of hira but of discussions, consideration and assessment of local regional interests, i.e. the situation on the ground. The railway Serbia infrastructure in co-operation with the ministry over the previous years has, as we understand it, carried out a number of consultations and talks. It is understood that rationalization must actually be carried out. Only for tax costs, for example. Construction land fees, municipal taxes and environmental protection and improvement fees and another public railway infrastructure company, will save about 30 million each year. We need to be realistic about the interests of local self-government. Based on these decisions, the network will shrink. The process of abolishing the lines and returning land to the state will be made available, as I said, for other contents. After making these decisions, it is envisaged that this paper and the savings of monetary expenditure is available in a way that will develop other infrastructure projects, and that would provide an example, I think positive, that certain lines, or certain directions, will be used to build a green cycling path, such as the Beocin-Peterradin railways, i.e. the Sombor-Bački Breg railway, local self-governments can, of course, have different common infrastructure projects, which should be the essence of these decisions. I would also like to refer to the proposal for a law on special procedures for the realisation of projects of construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia. Based on previous experiences in the realisation of all these projects, there was a slowdown, i.e. a slowdown of the beginning of the realization before the necessary permits were even issued. The delays resulted not only in delays in work, but also economic consequences, such as payment of fees or foams for untapped loans. Since the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure is in the plan, as you said, you have the launch of a five-billion-euro realisation of new infrastructure projects. It is estimated that in order to start construction and reconstruction, this law should be passed, in order to allow for faster and simpler implementation of the project. These are projects of importance for the Republic of Serbia in road and rail infrastructure, along with the construction of new state roads. The reconstruction and rehabilitation of public roads of 5,000km has been planned to improve the existing road network, as well as reconstruction and rehabilitation of public railway infrastructure, to improve the quality of the same. Therefore, this law sets out projects for the construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities that are of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, the establishment of public interest for full and incomplete expropriation, the temporary takeover of immovableity for the construction and reconstruction of these line infrastructure facilities. The identification of the users of the expropriation, the special procedure, the financial means for the realisation itself. In fact, the proposal for this law stipulates who may be a party to the administrative procedure of expropriation, the conduct of the competent authority after obtaining the proposal for expropriation. The appeal procedure was also prescribed for the silence of the administration in the procedure of expropriation, as well as the possibility of starting a administrative dispute after a solution to the complaint made in this article. It is also prescribed that the conditions for the initiation of the procedure for the contractual determination of the real estate compensation, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the expropriation, as well as the body assessing the market value of this land, should be established under the law governing the expropriation. In fact, this law aims at introducing more precise procedures, protecting all parties in the process and more efficient and simpler procedures in the realisation of all infrastructure projects than national importance in the future. As I said, we will support all these proposals that are on the agenda today, and on a completely new act, which is the Law on hydrographic activity, as amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act, on navigation, on ports on internal waters, I will speak a little later of my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69405	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's agenda is an absolute failure and the collapse of what Zorana Mihajlovic is doing as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, and the bagami and the serious defeat of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which allows Zorana Mihajlovic, with the recitation she has, to be minister in this government. We have today on the agenda, for example, laws, the one relating to planning and construction, changes 14 times. Since Zorana's been in power, this is the eighth shift. Does anyone normal think a law like this can have any purpose and that a law like this can mean anything? Sailing and ports change eight times. Air traffic six times. Road traffic five times. Construction for apartments for security personnel in a year and a half three times. This is truly amazing, and it is particularly a problem that the consequences of the adoption of such laws are disastrous for all people living in Serbia, not to say this Law on special procedures for the realisation of projects for the construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities, again Lex specialis. This is amazing and it is not the first time that we, from Zorana Mihajlović, are getting it, and you accept it and vote for it, Lex specialis, through which, in a completely illegal way, we treat land expropriation, as if we don't have an expropriation law, and we do. But, simply Zorana Mihajlovic, in fact through these laws, shows her true role in the government. What she's doing is, classic spying, because if someone brings it, I don't know how many times she changes the Law on Legalization, now she's calling it, I guess the Law on Law and says by 2023, everything's gonna have to be legalized, and everything that doesn't legalize is going to be destroyed, and nothing's done, the law is such that it can't, almost nothing can be legalized and nothing is legalized. So she was aware that as many objects as possible were destroyed and, of course, when the collapse occurred, then with local officials, who took the money and who would take the money, and who are now taking the money, she was melting like she was used to. Zorana, therefore, blocked the legalisation of the facilities, as she blocked the work of the catastra, and then we had almost a year that the catastre in Serbia was not working at all. When it comes to these expropriations, which are on the agenda, one of these laws, and they were already on the agenda, that lex specialis, that part of the Preljina highway – Pojate, we then said what would happen, as a result of such a bad law, but of course you did not listen to us and the consequences we now have in action. Scary things happen on the track, that highway. It changes the purpose of land built in agriculture, for people to get less money, no one living knows exactly where that route is passing it, many people are not in agreement with the price offered for expropriation, but they are forced into their plots, the problem of that part of Moravsky stream, because of those parcels that have disappeared, because of the theft of gravel and sand, from Morava. So nothing has been done, and the particular problem is the buildings. Let's say, on this part that's not exactly on this highway, but let's say the objects are on their way to Batocino. You have no answer to the question, what are they going to do and how they will live in their houses, the people whose route to Batocina goes 80 centimeters away from home, and you will not tear down those houses, but you are leaving them to live, in fact on the highway, and even they are getting in from their family houses, facing the road, and then on their own cost they have to turn the entrance to the other side, etc. But how can they live here again? That, of course, doesn't interest you. You laws, I've only done legal work for over 20 years, as a graduate lawyer, and I have no idea how many laws I've read and applied. I have read hundreds or thousands, I suppose, of the law, but these are the texts of the law, what are yours, otherwise what are the laws that Zorana Mihajlovic represents, I don't think anyone alive has seen. There's no legal norm, it's a description, it's a chat through legal norm, it's if it's not like this, it's gonna be like this. You don't have a clear, precise and concise legal norm that you know exactly what is prescribed and what you're going to apply to me tomorrow, it's really surprising that fellow lawyers and who support the government don't react to the government so bad laws and formally bad ones. Basically bad, which is even worse, but formally bad, it doesn't formally look like legal text. Zorana Mihajlovic is a short time ago, otherwise she tends to boast 350km of highways, etc. You know, he wrote well our colleague, Vladimir Djukanovic, in one of his columns, I don't know what she boasts about, because if it hadn't been for Vukic himself, these highways and corridors, it certainly wouldn't have been. But here I am, and we give recognition to Zorana Mihajlovic, her contribution is this time Preljina – Pojate, but it costs the state of Serbia 300m euros stolen, for the job she gave to Bechtel. Does Zorana Mihajlovic have an answer, how did this happen these days, how did it happen to rob citizens on payment ramps, take away 1800 dinars instead of 300 dinars, at the part of the highway, etc? How is it possible with such a perfect brain that these things happen, what are the serious problems? On the other hand, you've increased the toll price, when you've opened the corridors, but this too. The law on planning and construction, it is extremely important to say to be passed for one single reason, it is proposed that small hydropower plants could be installed with a building permit without a design documentation. That's the catch, hiding in this law and, of course, it's nothing weird. We should remind ourselves that small hydropower plants began to build and that their construction was planned just at the time Zorana Mihajlovic was the energy minister. This is later just a sequel and now, Serbian citizens need to know that they have been defending their rivers from these investors for small hydropower plants, now these people will come with building permits, because they will be able to get them, whoever gives them more, and they will be able, of course, without any planning documentation to obtain such permits. To be clear, first of all, for the sake of the public, we in the SRS have nothing against building a mini power plant, and all of these possibilities of using renewable resources, but we think that it should and how it is planned to build, that no mini power plant should endanger any family, any part of any populated place, any inhabited area, any part of the municipality, because there are parts of the rivers on which it can be done, but it has to be done planically and it has to be done, not how this law is going to do now, based on the law to be done, that these permits will be obtained where someone thinks of it. And do you know what they're doing it for? These Zoran's companies, who started this while she was a minister of energy, are not worth building minis - hydropower plants, away from the inhabited area, because it's supposed to run the infrastructure, which costs, and like this, it's nice to destroy the only source, the only water in some village or some part of a municipality, and they don't care, it attaches them all to infrastructure facilities, and people's lack of clean water, on the territory of that municipality, it certainly doesn't care about Zoran or these companies. These days, the story of Zorana Mihajlovic, about everything we've said years ago about her, when she was saying that we had something against her and that we Serbian radicals wouldn't have anything to talk about, imagine, Zorana Mihajlović, but everything we said, so it turned out to be absolutely true. We ask Zorana Mihajlović, first of all Ana Brnabic, we ask all of you, dear colleagues, who will vote for Zorana's proposals, what is and what is the answer of Zorana Mihajlovic to the accusations of Miroljub Jeftic, the director of the infrastructure Željnica, who said in the first reporting to the prosecutor that he was correct about the expropriation, of course again, because it is mainly done along with the bribe and on the path of the rapid railway and that part of those pairs was given by Zorana Mihajlović, respectively, to her partner. So, let's not just hear the answer: "He withdrew or did not withdraw after that statement," because we do not accept the answer to "mothers we", but we ask that this be absolutely determined, that absolutely everything is being tested and that we see how much Zorana Mihajlovic took the money through this Miroljub Jevtic. And now we see, too, that instead of him he wants to put some of his people in his place again. Zoran's purse three worth $10,000, a 5,000-euro brooch, a 3,000-euro pendant, that's something that's become an urban legend and everyone's living talking about it, and we're the only one who doesn't have an answer to the question -- how is it possible that someone can spend that much money on such things? We haven't forgotten the theft from the Ministry's card, when Zorana Mihajlovic spent about a million and a half dinars from the Ministry's card on her private expenses, buying cosmetics, underwear. A piece of that money returned immediately, and in 2015 it paid back the debt of 895,951 dinar as much as it had stolen. Now, of course it's a question – would she pay that debt back... (President: Don't do that to my colleague Radeta, that terminology, it doesn't make any sense. Please don't interrupt me. I'm so nice... (President: I must, I must. No, no, you don't have to, and you can't. You can't, and you don't have to. (President: I must when you use such words. Wait a minute, if someone from the Ministry's card spends on private jobs, private supplies, a million and a half dinars, what's it called? What's it called if it's not stealing? What's it called? What she borrowed, so she came back when she was discovered. And here we ask: Would you have returned it if they had not revealed it? That's what the answer to that question is. Of course, Zorana Mihajlović is the only member of the government who can afford every day and the hairdresser and that every day a cosmetist comes to her house, a stiltist and says on one television, boasts that a stiltist specifically designs a skirt for her, that that skirt is not for sale for other customers, if someone insists on such a skirt then she is much more expensive than the rest of the skirts, because God it is the style of Zorana Mihajlović. Don't think Mrs. Mihajlovic that we're just saying something against you, I have to tell you that the other day was so warm around my heart when I read how you warmed your fingers in 30,000 dinar gloves, from little lambs, from their fur. Look at my gloves that are very beautiful that were bought on the counter at the Zemun market, for 300 dinars and believe it, they keep their fingers warm. And now they say malice -- how is it not a shame for Zoran Mihajlovic to wear 30,000 dinar gloves, as if it were 30,000 dinars of some kind, right? Well, it's just one minimum. Zoran's gloves, in money monthly in the name of the monthly town and in the name of the minimumer, are receiving 350,000 people in Serbia today. It's really something that's amazing, something that doesn't suit a minister in the state of Serbia who can't possibly make that kind of money in that place. Zorana Mihajlovic says she does not receive salary in the government. He may not, but we ask – where does he receive and what is the salary in Serbia from which someone so luxurious can behave? There is no such salary in Serbia, there is a Yorgovanka, I guess, and no one else. All of this leads to doubt, all of what Zorana Mihajlovic is doing, and all of it just confirms our suspicions when we hear that the money is being taken for legalization, for expropriation, here we have Miroljub Jeftic, we don't know exactly how much Zorana took over him, but the man has confirmed that he is, so how much money is being taken for these mini-water power plants, we're just waiting, and we assume that before the election, it will certainly happen, that a few local officials who are unwittingly taking money for legalisation are known in Serbia where exactly, and we wait when they're arrested to see what they're going to say, how much money they've shared with Zorana Mihajlović, because she's made such a law that she can only legalize what she actually, that signal. In general, legalisation is impossible in Serbia, absolutely impossible and now, in two, two, two and a half years, people will be in a position to fear that according to this Zoran law, objects will collapse and then, of course, what remains of them, but that poor people are collecting, to see that they are giving money. I have to go back to the gloves of this 30,000 dinar, not to forget, Minister Sarcevic, counterpart Zorana Mihajlovic said that everyone can spend their money on him, and of course, it is not only controversial when it comes to the exact money earned by work and he still said – better to buy gloves than to spend in a pub. It is obvious that Mr. Sarcevic does not follow well the government of the Republic of Serbia's meetings, because he would have to see Zorana Mihajlovic spend between 150,000 and 200,000 dinars on lunches, also with a government card in exclusive restaurants, with her business partners for just one lunch. And by celebrating her fame with Scott, that's what's responsible for stealing 300m euros, for Bechtel, that's just something that, not because she doesn't know what Christian glory is, so she's celebrating at the hotel, that's her problem, but because she's still asking how it can be spent, where it can be spent so much money that she's throwing away. This behavior and these expensive things that we watch daily, first of all, are in the media at Zorana Mihajlović, which can only be afforded by a member or a member of a family of tycoons or thieves. As far as we know, Zoran is not a tycoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69407	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69408	Thank you very much for all your comments. They're standard radical. Thank you for mentioning my name for now, if I counted my name and last name well 37 times. Yeah, it's not enough, it needs more. I'm sorry that the topic for you is Zorana Mihajlović, which is not the law, because these are not Zorana's laws, these are the laws adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as I said, at its regular sessions and each of these laws means, in fact, faster and better implementation of all roads, so that only a few things you mentioned to answer anyway. First, it is the Serbian government that has raised the issue of legalisation of buildings and all that has been built for twenty years or more without any permits. The fact is that units of local self-government and cities are competent to implement the legalisation process, the fact is that it doesn't go as easily, but it certainly goes much more than it used to do before when the esteemed MP was also in power. As for all the things you've mentioned, mostly, you're talking, unfortunately, to be gentle, not to say any other word, and that false concern for the citizens is more than truly amazing with you. When, for example, you mention plots, so problems on certain shares, first, the purpose of the land is determined by a plan act, either, yes or a being, so what you said is not true. Also, when you mention small hydroelectric power plants, to be clear, we added, so that there is no confusion, that it would not be that people are again and insinuating that small hydroelectric power plants, no, refer only to biomass, therefore, to agricultural waste that can be used in the production of energy in agricultural land, and another amendment will be further written, not to any kind of confusion. I have to admit that everything else you've been saying has nothing to do with almost any law. I agree with you that there are institutions that need to be examined. I'll tell you that everything you've said about the railroad and my name, in what you've said, is an absolute lie and a lie. They didn't even mention my name or the name of anyone in my family, but I agree with you that there are competent authorities who are obliged to give everyone answers and I really think we're going to get those answers. As for my work and what has been done over the past few years, Serbian citizens see it. Yes, it was released 350 kilometers of highways. Yes, it was reconstructed over 350 kilometers of track. And what I did was spoken of by my president, not by any other MP, even if it was Vladimir Djukanovic. And I'm proud of what my president says about my work and about me and about believing in me and my work, and for me it's number one, and then behind that, of course, and citizens who see what we've done. I'm sorry there aren't any concrete things I can answer for. But if you say that all the laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed and has authorized me to represent them here today and defend them in parliament are no good, because from the amendments you have proposed you have mostly written "expect". That's what DS used to do and all their different parties that came out of the DS. They never gave their opinion specifically for any amendment, but they wrote "expunged". Of course, we've answered you as best we could, but all your criticisms are falling into the water based on what's on the other side of it. These results in the Law on Planning and Construction, which you mention how many times it changes, or any law that changes, each law should be perfected and changed for the benefit of both business and society. The Law on Planning and Construction gives its results. Serbia today is the ninth in the world to issue construction permits. At a time when you were in any kind of power, so we were 184. At the time you were, we had 500 sites, now we have 55,000. So there could be a lot of things. So all the results came out of the law that this assembly of parliament, and thank him, adopted, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed those laws. The laws don't say Zoran, they write professional people. The laws pass many committees in the government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, from legislation to each other. If any law is not good, there are also opportunities for these laws to change in terms if you think something is against the constitution, etc., there is also a way of doing it. But those flat-rates, and then the story -- we take great care of the citizens, and here's the house will be on the road, which is not true, so these are the things that sound so drunk, when someone listens to them now, but when they look at the papers, when they look at everything that's done, then, for God's sake, it's not true. So, yes, we did all of this by the end of 2019 and I sincerely hope that these good MPs, simply, people who understand what we're doing, will help us adopt these laws and then we can realize and build all those other paths that I may have mentioned 15 minutes ago, or numbered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69409	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69410	The loggia of Zorana Mihajlovic cannot possibly replace the arguments that are not actually available. He says he's going to vote for these MPs who understand something. So she thinks I don't understand and we don't understand. It doesn't matter how someone can touch something that moral Zorana Mihajlovic says. But the problem is that Zorana Mihajlovic here says these are not her laws, but the laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the problem. That is why I said that these proposals are the defeat of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which holds Zorana, Ana Brnabic, above all, which keeps Zorana at the post of minister. Zorana Mihajlovic says that her name, or any of her family members, is not mentioned in the case of Miroljub Jeftic and this affair, or criminal actions related to the expropriation of the high-speed railway line. Now, as a graduate lawyer, I ask Zorana Mihajlovic how does she know what she is or isn't mentioned during the prosecutor's interrogation while questioning this Miroljub Jeftic? Does this mean that she got this information and that precisely because Jeftic did say he shared money with her, or was it giving her more, did that give her information that Jeftic might have agreed with the prosecutor's office? Now you've just said something that says that you've interfered with this criminal procedure, which absolutely no one in this world should. As for how it worked while we Serbian radicals were in power, whether it worked better or worse, I recommend you ask Alexander Vukic, the minister of the then government, the youngest minister of information. And that's the best part of his career.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69411	Right to replication, commentary, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69412	I see you're in the middle of an investigation. I never interfere. I know exactly what I can and can't do, but the defendant's lawyer, the defendant, as they say, has made it public. Another thing, I repeat once again, competent institutions should give us all answers. I've always asked for many things and I've also written to competent institutions to give answers for every thing, because I'm not anyone, but I'm a member of the government and I don't want to cause any problems. But, just one more thing, yes, it's really done a lot and what's done is the result and the policy of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, we can all be proud of what was done by the end of 2019 and what we announced for 2020, in all areas, and also in the area of infrastructure. I'm sure there'll be more questions, so I'll answer, but I just wanted to answer here for a little while.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69413	The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69414	Both Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should certainly be proud of the built corridors. And we Serbian radicals never said anything bad about building corridors. On the contrary, we always said it was good, but it's not good for highways to have two years of warranty. It's not good to crash that supporting wall twice in the Gredile ravine. It's not good that two days after the opening, cracks on the road appear. It is not good for Bechtel to engage 300m euros more than the Chinese firm would. It's something that's not good, and it's something that we resent, and it's something that, it's time, everything can go to you. You can only be proud of these bags from $1,300 to $4,500 apiece. You can be proud of the 5,000-euro brooch, a 3,000-euro key chain, gloves that cost a minimum. Here, we propose to the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to speak anymore, it will sound better, not to speak – here, we have increased the minimum and is now the minimum of 30,022 dinars. True, 7,000 dinars less than the lowest consumer basket. Anyway, we recommend that now, to make people sound better, to say, "people, what are you rebelling about?" So now the minimumer is a little smaller than they cost Zoran's gloves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69415	Right on line, comment by Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69416	You won't talk about the laws. I understand that it's easier for you to fly out with your story, and it sounds really cute, and there's someone who listens to it, and you're really great. I don't know what or how it's possible to inspire you so much that you bring out the most negative thing a woman can say to me, if that's how I can express myself. Indeed, you are telling lies. Especially you're telling the truth, let's say, about this Moravian corridor. So, no Chinese company has offered or there is any agreement, contract or whatever it is, to the amounts you're talking about, but still, that sounds great – American Ambassador and Zorana Mihajlovic stole 300 million and then it spins like that, etc. So, first of all, that's not true. Not to say, that's a lie. Secondly, if you want to talk about my closet, it's not a problem, it's just not this place. Today we have 13 draft laws that need to help us really do everything we can in a new investment cycle that is really a driver of the economy and everything we all probably stand for and what we all want, and that is, therefore, to live in this country much better and better quality than it was or what it is. A special law you mentioned, why again a special law, I apologize, you said, that was also in some first, perhaps, address? We have a special law and for South Stream, you're not against it. We also have for "Belgrade on Water", I have not heard that you are against it. So we also have for, among other things, the Moravia Corridor. We've been through... You're right, too, when you say we have the Expropriation Act, I totally agree with you, but just that law hasn't changed yet. We think he should be in line with everything that we're living today and that's one of the reasons why we want to speed up, therefore, solving issues, property issues on all these new highways. I repeat, it's at least 50,000 parcels, you know that well, you say yourself you're a lawyer, I'm a doctor of economic science. That's why we make laws like this. So, once again, I'm asking you to get back on the subject. We've seen your amendments. I couldn't conclude from the amendment what doesn't exactly answer your laws and what really are your concrete proposals like your party or like you, someone who has done so much in his legal profession, because he writes everywhere - is deleted. Now let's be concrete, what should all of the laws, according to you, change to help these laws help Serbian citizens and citizens get as soon as possible their roads and their tracks or a few other airports we plan to make as well?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69417	Thank you. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69418	Here, now Zorana Mihajlovic has told a lie. First, she made it clear through her discussion that I was also talking about the bill. Secondly, we'll talk more about bill proposals when we talk about amendments. It's a lie that through our amendments you can't see. Through the explanation of that amendment, where we delete, we ask that all members of this first law be deleted. If you don't know Dr. Economic Sciences, ask the lawyers around you, because it is the job of a lawyer, how does the relationship to the law that MPs think shouldn't exist in the legal system. By proposing to delete each member individually. Why are we doing this? Here, let the people who are watching this congregation hear, so it can't be a good law that you're trying to change the 14th time today. The 14th Amendment of the Law and you expect us to be editing something with our amendments now. No, that basic law can't be fixed, and that's why we suggested that you didn't understand, but that's your problem that you don't understand. You say you're our inspiration and I don't know what came out of me negatively. Why would it negatively come out of me that Zorana Mihajlovic is dealing with Miroljub Jeftic who stole money for expropriation? Is that my problem or yours? There is nothing more positive than the MP telling the public all the knowledge of every member of the government and, of course, calling on the authorities to finally consider everything we've been talking about for years and it's not my shame and nothing of mine is negative because my gloves are paid 300 dinars, and Zorana Mihajlovic's gloves are 30,000 dinars. I think that negativity belongs to her.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69419	The right to replica has Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69420	Nothing about the laws again, but just once again, precisely because of the citizens and citizens who are watching this, to simply explain this legal great skill of the party's representative who has now appeared, and that is that for every amendment that exists in the law, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted and came before parliament and before MPs and MPs, therefore, there is no single argument in the proposal for any amendment. The only thing with such great legal skills is that the amendments to this political party are two words or words and words and the words are "expunged". We, of course, as a responsible government and as a responsible ministry have prepared answers to every amendment, very detailed, believing that this may help some of the following draft laws from this party come up with concrete proposals. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69421	Thank you. On what basis, Mrs. Radeta? She didn't insult you. [[(Miss Radeta: What? Based on the replica.]] The squirrel Radeta throws it away. No more, we can do this by tomorrow morning. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. No, of course not, it's not a problem, it's all right. I'll give it to you, but you disagree, we all see it, we know, no hard words, no trouble, thank God, so... Come on, go ahead, but I'd like to bring this to an end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69422	I don't know what the rush is. The truth is you didn't have a quorum this morning, so you were an hour late because some MPs apparently boycotted Zorana Mihajlovic, so there were 129 and 126 voted in favour of the bill she represents here. Now you're not going to deny us that we're talking about making up for it. Indeed, we came here prepared. The fact that Zorana Mihajlovic doesn't understand... I told her to consult the lawyers, and she says, "Doctor of science." Apparently, the doctorate of Megatrenda has some special features and features like this, such as the professor at Megatrend, does not matter. She says three times, and you didn't distract her, an MP from this party. I am the people sent, and all of us, the SRS and the minister with such understatement must not say "these parties". She has a problem with the party, because she was in G17, so within DOS she took part in the burning of this Assembly, she carried a bag to Labus, and we remember, as MPs, it would be physically difficult to recognize her, because then she didn't have the money for everything she's doing right now, which is her problem, and now she's with the progressors. It's only a matter of days before they reveal what they're planning. I guess the whole of Serbia knows and she has a problem saying the name of her party, but we don't let her call us the MPs of that party. She can hate us, she may not know what we are, she can tell me that tomorrow someone buys her a eight thousand-euro brooch, if there's someone she's got to settle down with, but that's how she talks to the MPs, we won't let her, if you want to keep working normally. What's time, it's really been sitting for an hour and we're not used to this many MPs sitting around for an hour, using time and going out like we've been.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69423	Thank you. Ms. Mihajlovic did not insult you, nor did she offend the party. I'll give you the right to a replica, but the point is that you all the time... So, don't talk, she's talking about the amendment, she's talking about the law, and you're talking about some personal stuff. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. Nobody said that, just to get back to law and amendment. I'm just trying to have a normal session. Mrs. Mihajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69424	Here, I'll help make the session as good and good as possible. I'm just going to react to one mistake here, maybe she was accidentally told, I don't know, and that's that I have a PhD in Megatrend University. I graduated, mastered and doctored at the Belgrade University of Economics. That's where I got my doctor's appointment at the Faculty of Economics, and that year when I was a doctor, that year I was also the youngest doctor of science, and then I published four books, etc., etc. That applies to my titles. Also, I currently have written in my work book 27 years of work experience with all stamps etc. For the record, my doctorate isn't from Megatrend. Yes, I am employed at Megatrang University and therefore do not receive my salary in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's it. We'll talk about the laws further.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69425	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, lovely Mihaylovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69426	Chairman, Article 106(1) has been injured. The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. Please use all the mechanisms of the Rules of Procedure and take certain measures so that citizens and citizens will not listen here to sexist insults, literally verbal violence, domestic violence. It's really inappropriate, no matter who it comes from, no matter who it's directed to. Indeed, insulting someone based on personal qualities is also forbidden by law. Please use the mechanisms the Rules of Procedure knows and sanction this way of speaking to anyone in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69427	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylovska. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. My intention was to let go of such a debate, given that we started a session not getting much into what kind of a model are people who and colleagues who talk and what their strategy is today. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, even though I'm not in a position right now, I'd say the same thing to advertise, but I'm trying to keep working normally. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. We continue to work. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69428	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honourable citizens, just to let you know that the quorum is given by all MPs. The obligation of MPs to the Rules of Procedure, right, Mr. Chairman, that when he enters the O.R., he throws a card into the MP's unit. Isn't that right, Mr. Martinovic? If the chairman sees that a certain group of MPs have not done so, then the quorum can be determined by counting. When you have the right, you have obligations. The obligation is to insert the card when you enter, remove the card when you exit. If you don't then when you say someone didn't have a quorum. So the Assembly is not the private property of Alexander Vukic, nor Alexander Martinović, nor mine, nor yours. The congregation belongs to all of us. We're all obliged to secure the quorum. Because the quorum isn't secure, because all MPs didn't want to put in a card, is it not a commitment by the ruling majority, it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure, we lost an hour, and we could have worked fruitfully. What I'm trying to say at first is that a built highway, built rail, built clinical center, built objects can be criticized by anyone, but obviously not everyone can build them. So, the dream of many generations, which I belong to, was especially us who had a piece of highway between Belgrade and Novi Sad, that we could travel to Macedonia and to Bulgaria's highways. It was a dream that lasted, a dream that we supported, no matter what government promised. Anyone could have promised a highway, but only this ruling majority supported the government that managed to build it. Others either did not want to or were not allowed to make roads from the field to the field or were disturbed by the famous oak, they were largely unable to build that road. The dream of many Belgraders, Cacana, Užicana, many tourists travelling to Zlatibor, the dream of many tourists travelling to Montenegro, the dream of many tourists travelling to Republika Srpska, was to build a highway to Cačka, to extend to Požega, and God would extend to the brother Montenegro, which will again probably be the second Serbian state. It will be sovereign, independent, but as far as I can see from the emotions that are being expressed in Montenegro, I believe that it will be the Serbian state again, the Serbian brother state, which I want, and many Serbs in Serbia want, both many Serbs and Montenegro. The fact that the Milogoras don't want it is their problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that 320km highway saved many lives. More people died in the Ibaric Master's Office to Cacko than died during NATO aggression on finding the country. We've saved many lives in the future, and no one needs to give us credit, but it should be noted in success that we won't lose the population, we won't get hurt on that part of the highway, we won't have any economic damage and damage to the companies where employees work, who get hurt, don't give God on that part of the Ibar Highway, which is no longer so dangerous, which is only for meat traffic. By building the Milos Veliki road, the dream of many tourists from Zlatibor, many tourists to Montenegro, has been realized by many dreams of Montenegrins, tourists who do not belong, are not citizens of Serbia or Montenegro. That success is immeasurable. No matter how much it costs, one life doesn't have a price, we lose dozens, dozens of lives. Besides, I certainly want to support the construction of all the infrastructure that was promised over the next five years. So we need to change the laws and adjust them. The congregation exists to pass and amend laws. The laws are a living thing, circumstances change in society, circumstances change in construction, technologies change, conditions change, many changes are changed, and we as MPs do not only serve to receive wages and boycott the National Assembly, but we serve here to comment, adopt laws, propose laws, propose other acts, adopt these acts, and everything to build up the Republic of Serbia. I especially want to support future efforts to build infrastructure, new highways, waterways, sewers, housing for organs and people working in safety authorities. First of all, because it will raise our GDP, it will raise the production of construction material, gravel, sand, arms, bricks, blocks, ticks, etc. That'll raise our GDP. The projection that GDP will grow from two billion and above in the coming years gives us the right to invest three billion each year in construction. If we maintain a debt of 50% of GDP and each year we produce a new two billion, we have the right to borrow one billion, not to exceed the 50% of the public debt I believe we will achieve and to maintain this public debt in the face of GDP. If we multiply that by five years, if this power gets trust in the next election it's realistic to expect three times five is 15 billion. That's what's promised. Through this development of the construction industry, through services it is likely a realistic story that we will reach 900 euros in wages. Imagine that we of these unfortunate people found a 510-euro salary in 2013 and that we averaged it by 50%, how much we raised from 328 to 510 euros. That's a 50% increase. Now imagine if we had found a 510-euro salary and if we had raised it by that 50%, we would probably have raised it, that would mean that at this point the salary would be between 750 and 800 euros. It's not that they're not 800 euros now, it's not the fault of this government and this ruling majority, it's the fault of the former who left the poor wages behind. They destroyed the industry. They didn't care about building roads, railways, etc. Because when they destroyed the economy, they probably thought they had nothing left to produce, they had nothing to export, they probably didn't need railroads, or waterways, or boats, they probably didn't need trucks, or highways, they didn't need anything. All the highways led into their pockets, and that was the only thing that mattered to them was that they deposited money on Cook and other white-world islands, Seishela, Maldives. I don't know much about such elite resorts, but I do know those who boycott everything except pay in the National Assembly, that they and how robbing the Serbian state have the conditions to spend a certain number of months in those resorts, to eat crabs in the Maldives, on yachts, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think they needed roads, shinobuses, buses, or labour transport. They've done a lustration of workers from the economy and factories. We ran out of the processing industry and our gross-domestic product came down to living in charge, taking some money outside of donor support, credits, etc., and then at the store we're doing a little trade, and then we say, "We've achieved trade GDP," where we've bought foreign goods for foreign money. And instead of the industrial ring around the big cities, they just broke shopping malls, shopping malls, etc., where we actually bought foreign money by the merchandise. They didn't need to be exported, they didn't need to be transported by workers who were deprived, spat on them from factories, deprived of wages, deprived of dignity, nothing important to them, and the workers didn't travel to work, so they didn't need highways, no railways, no railways, no buses, no busses, no buses, no bussages, because they left the roads without goods, no goods, no goods, no passengers. All those highways, I repeat, led to Gilas' pockets. Imagine how much tape it took to fit into his pockets and his 619m-euro bills? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will end this speech with a saying -- it is more important to build a state than to rule it, which is precisely what this government and the ruling majority do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69429	Thank you, fellow Ristich-vic. My colleague Radeta, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69430	I reported to the Rules of Procedure at the moment when my colleague Risticevic had already started, i.e. I wanted to replicate and I don't understand why my colleague Marinkovic wouldn't let me replicate? Here, now, on the basis of Article 104, I will thank my colleague Mihajlovski, who has well noticed that Zorana Mihajlović insulted me as a MP, that she said that I understood nothing, that I do not know, that I do not know how to write amendments, that I am an MP there, a lawyer there, etc. And it's nice of her to try to protect a fellow MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69431	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The word has an authorised representative, or authorised representative of the Party of Modern Serbia, MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69432	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens, well-respected guests and guests, I will look forward to today's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction and Part of the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Traffic. I certainly support the fact that the Law on Planning and Construction is in line with certain EU directives, however, one large part of which these proposed amendments and amendments to the law do not deal with, and which weighs about 10% of the population in Serbia, is an accessibility problem based on the principles of universal design. So, what does that mean? This means that when certain buildings are designed or their adaptation and renovation is carried out, standards should be taken into account, in order to make them available for use by all users or all Serbian citizens. When something is accessible to people with disabilities, it doesn't mean that it's only accessible to them, but that makes it easier to move, we're talking about moving here. Of course, there are other forms of accessibility, and I'm going to stay on the move right now, because the Regulation deals with movement. It also facilitates the movement of older people above all, as well as mothers who push children in wheelchairs and all those citizens who are at a certain point in the situation of difficulty moving. I assume that, Minister, you know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has formed a working group on the initiative of the Prime Minister to bring together and improve accessibility measures for people with disabilities. I believe you know, because he's in a task force and a member of your ministry. We had a serious consultation process with a number of stakeholders the other day and there are conclusions at the level of all the actors involved and the key two conclusions are that there are actually insufficient accessibility audits and that there is no practical control of the application of regulations and laws, and therefore sanctions are lagging behind. Also, the other thing that is problematic is that the ministries are not sufficiently harmonised and not every ministry sees its role in the accessibility process. So the question of accessibility isn't just your portfolio. Just as much as it is necessary for the facility to be accessible, for example, for healthcare to be accessible, it is also necessary to be cultural objects, sports facilities and everything that all citizens use, as regards the provision of services. What has been seen as a weakness on the ground is that many objects, not defined their status, are simply, nor are legal and property relations defined, numerous objects are unrecorded or illegal and there are complicated and long-term procedures for obtaining building permits and solutions. However, here I must commend that last year a Regulation was adopted which provides for easier procedures for building adaptation if it is necessary to carry out accessibility, but in practice, the problem is that it is not sufficiently defined what means removing barriers for disabled persons, and somewhere the proposal would be that, in line with what you introduce or agree on, you might consider a British model, that in some subsequent period of time, there would be an auditor for accessibility. In 2008, I asked you if there were sanctions and supervision and you replied to me that - in the process of overseeing the construction of buildings for which a building permit was issued before the amendments to the law for uninterrupted movement and access to persons with disabilities, etc., says - if there is a failure or irregularity, inspection supervision is in motion and taking action, but so far there has never been a failure. You know how, it seems quite frankly like I'm saying - I don't miss caviar in the menu, because I've never even eaten it and I don't know what it tastes like. Simply, people are not professional enough to assess whether the project meets all levels of accessibility. It's not just about elevators, ramps, it's about audio-visual markings and markings on Bray's blind face letter. So it's really weak to take care of, and in doing so, people are in great error, especially the private sector, because they don't think it applies to them. So, let's say, we had a situation with the spas that were privatized, that they didn't see their role in that when they adapted the facilities, they had to take care of the application of that rule. Also, one of the ideas would be, which you can consider, that in the context of these elaborates that are needed when issuing a building permit, which is an elaborate on geotechnical conditions of construction, fire protection labs, energy efficiency labs and studies on environmental impact assessment, think about entering a mandatory approach or accessibility study, I am now not able to get into what one means or what the other means, but I should definitely think about it. What is really crucial is greater control and supervision and application of the sanctions measure. Because, you know, the question of accessibility, as I said at the outset, is not just a matter of one resolution, as the question of persons with disabilities is not just a question of social protection resolutions. It's primarily a political issue. I would like to hear from you today that you are primarily political and strategically determined to deal with these issues at this level, and that is, among other things, a civilization issue. So, in that sense, these are some suggestions. When it comes to traffic, we also have a lot of challenges. Although we have some affordable buses, the views are inaccessible, not to mention barriers in the attitudes of people who provide a traffic service, and, let's say, you now have a situation where a private carrier, not to appoint them, provides a certain number of vehicles. If they have found an interest in doing so, I think that the interest and the state to make public transport accessible, especially as a large part of the funds, say local budgets, in my opinion is thrown into the well. In particular, the city of Belgrade singles out about 70m dinars for specialized transport for people with disabilities at an annual level, which is only 10 vans that manage to cover the needs of 100 people per month. I think the means should be directed towards the fact that the wider the number of users can use services and make sure that when purchasing the bus and when planning and, I don't know, in some future metros and railway and bus stations we also take care of the positions, of course I'm not talking about sound signals for the blind, traffic lights, etc. So, as far as these changes are concerned today in the Assembly, I can say that the Modern Serbia Party has everything to do with Serbia's accession to the EU and European integration, it always supports, because we believe that Serbia's accession to the EU is the only and the right and the right way to solve the many problems that we have in our country. Of course, it's not good that it's our only motive, but if we had known, and we wanted to do it ourselves, we would have done it by now. We believe that EU accession is the best mechanism for this. That's it. As I said, I would ask only to hear from you, to send a clear political message that it will be on the agenda of this or some of the next government, if you are in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69433	Thank you, colleague Mihajlovski. The speech is held by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Prof. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69434	Thank you for talking about accessibility. There are, indeed, like you said yourself, some things where the Ministry of Traffic may not be competent, but they are different, and we want to pay particular attention to the application through the task force. I don't think we have a problem with regulations, so there are regulations, but there is obviously a need to be a much stronger link between inspections and units of local self-government and, of course, some state inspections. Of course, it's not just a question, so it's a question not only for disabled people, but also for young people, old people, etc. There's a lot of issues that we're talking about inside the task force and we're really going to try to find a way to make that application better. I understand you have an interest in showing up more auditors, if I've heard correctly. It's a thing now, a joint, working group, but I really think, as in some other laws, that we often have a problem applying and it's now a matter of co-ordination in the government. I hope we're on a much better level of something that we are now, about this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69435	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69436	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Mihajlović, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we have already had the opportunity to hear, there is today a set of 13, which is a bill of law, which proposes the acts that we need to do here today and adopt, that is, to talk about them today. We've heard a lot of replacements today, and I have to admit that some of them were even interesting or not, but I can certainly say that they don't actually stand. First of all, I can't understand that someone can criticize what we're making laws here, that we're working on amendments and additions to the law, because first of all I think it's really primarily and what we always need to do, and that's our job as MPs. What's the worst thing that can happen is that the laws that are bad are in force, that such laws apply, because for citizens, the worst thing is that there are laws that are inapplicable, and what I also think would be bad, and what used to happen to the former regimes, is that such bad laws are being brought down by the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, I really think that this is a very bad thing, despite the many praises I'm going to make today, something that I would like to draw particular attention to, is the progress that this government has made over the past eight and a half years, and that is almost eight years, which is progress in the legislative system. I think it's good and it's a new thing that's never been done before, which is to monitor the effects of the laws passed. So I really don't think anyone's ever done that before. This government, this Ministry, is doing this, monitoring the effect of the law adopted, and if there are no expected effects or if better solutions are shown in practice, new laws are immediately passed, i.e. public hearings, public proposals, citizens are called on, businesses are called on to give their suggestions and often these suggestions are respected, and besides, often citizens' initiatives and business initiatives are changed. I support this and believe that, in addition to what this government has passed many regulations and has brought many laws into line with EU laws, which is certainly our obligation, if we want to join the EU, and it is certainly the way we are going, so I really think I also once again commend this work, and I think that we, too, are Members of the People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's Party really responsible for that, and I'm sorry that I've heard the criticism on this subject. The first law on the agenda today is the amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, we have heard that this is the eighth time that this law is changing, and I am really happy because this law gives a better and better effect every time it changes. These solutions that have been proposed today certainly concern any proposals that will bring him into an even better condition. Some of the amendments concerning the bill also concern compliance with EU rules. What is interesting here to say is that these changes are intended to take effect only when Serbia joins the EU. I think something like this is really good. I would like to remind you that on 1 January 2016 a united procedure came into effect, it is also one of the good changes that has been shown in practice. According to official data from the Bureau of Statistics, when an electronic permit came into force since 2012, I will now read to you what the results are and with all these amendments to the law, it is exactly something that has been officially and shown. So, in 2012, 7,402 building permits were issued, in 2013, 7,519 building permits, in 2014, in 7,668 building permits, in 2015, 10,483 building permits, and then we had a united procedure in 2016, and then it looked like this, that number of permits suddenly increased. So, in 2016, we had 12,671 construction permits, in 2017 18,477 construction permits, in 2018 19,484 building permits and in 2019 21,779 construction permits issued, which is three times more than 2012, 2013, together. Now someone can criticize what we do all the time on amendments and amendments to the law and what we keep changing, and here's the results saying it's really good. I ask you once again to continue to do such a thing. Otherwise, last October, in 2019, he was an absolute recordr by the number of building permits issued, only in October 2019, as many as 2,410 building permits were issued. Also, when we add all of this together, we have information that from the moment the procedure was introduced, which is 1.1.2016 until 31.12.2019, 72.411 building permits were issued. When we look at such a good result in just three years, then we realize that in Serbia today there are 53,642 open sites. So I repeat once again, today in Serbia there are 53,642 construction sites based on building permits that have been issued, let's say freely, in the last three years. You can imagine at these nearly 54,000 sites, you can imagine, that at least every one of them has 10 workers, and I believe it works even more, that these workers are using some kind of building material. So, in 54,000 places, some people bring construction material. That building material, too, some people have to make it, create it. Again, on the other hand, people buy the construction material, which is what the tax is paid, the tax goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Later, some apartments, buildings, factories will be built, someone will work in these factories, someone will buy these apartments, equip them. You can imagine that whole cycle of what happens, and the trigger, we can go back to the beginning, is that building permit. I can say it freely, just because I'm really sure none of these people who asked for this building permit took and put it in the drawer. I just don't think she's really serving it. All of what I just said, we can only imagine, because I really think that in practice it is much more, that these 10 workers are really much more and that indeed many people in many places in Serbia are employed. However, what I can say precisely is that Serbia today is the ninth on the Doing Business List of the World Bank. In 2015 alone, we were in 188 positions, so in just four years we skipped good reforms in 177 positions and that's something I can officially say and that's something I repeat, official data. When I'm talking about planning and building, I can't help but look back at legalization and just once again confirm how good it is to keep changing the laws, to adapt them and to bring them into practice better laws. I believe we all remember the 2009 Law on Planning and Construction, this famous law, which, in its provisions in the first part, predicted that an illegal facility could be legalized. He has set out exactly how this facility can be legalized. Later, in the same law, we have provisions that say that building a building without a building permit is a criminal offence and that such a facility must be brought down, and on the other hand, the one who built this facility, that it must be held accountable. When I look at it, I'll invite you to agree with me, I can doubt two things. That someone who passed this bill might have missed it, which I completely doubt because one man never passed the law, so if he missed it, then I can interpret that if I illegally fenced the facility then I'll rush to legalize my facility before inspection, because otherwise if the inspection first arrives, then she'll tear down my facility. That's the first way I could interpret it. Another way is for this 2009 Planning and Construction Act to give someone the right to decide whether to destroy or legalize a facility. Of course, both of these cases that I'm referring to are controversial and, of course, that one law like this has been brought down by the Constitutional Court, and that's the story again that we're changing the laws ourselves better than we're adapting to the bad laws and waiting for the Constitutional Court to bring them down. However, when I remember that at that time in Belgrade, Dragan Gilas was in power, I don't even find it strange to apply such a law. I think it may have been his responsibility to put under a mantle of law in one of these laws everything that he did irregularly and illegally, and certainly the greatest monument of his politics could be our famous, or his wonder of the bridge. I'm just saying in a financial sense, everything else can't really be weird. A bridge that does not have a mile, has 964m, cost 400m euros to build Belgrade and Serbian citizens, means practically as half of the Moravia Corridor. However, his masterpiece, unfortunately, is being paid today by the citizens of Belgrade. I can only assume that everything he invested in the bridge wasn't paying his dues. The commitments that come today for the payment of citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens, various rulings today come at the collection and the city's budget is burdened personally by the debts left by Dragan Gilas. Here, I call on Goran Vesic to speak more precisely about this because it is huge money and citizens of Belgrade would have to know exactly what amount of money is and what contracts it is, because we are paying for the famous masterpiece of the work of Dragan Gilas today. To get back to the law. As for the various laws passed under legalisation, around 150,000 objects were legalised in Serbia, and the Law on Law-Laws that came into force later, 258,233 legal solutions were issued in just four years. In my opinion, any result in this area can't be good, because I don't think illegal construction can ever be something good, and I think it's bad, but we have it as something that's been inherited from us from the former regime. Practically, we deal with the consequences here, not the cause of the case, when you're working backwards, when you're not working on a plan and with a building permit, it can't even be as effective as it should be, although the paper really says otherwise. As far as the Law on the Privilege of the Right of Use of Building Land is concerned, this is also one of the parts of the law that was brought down in the famous Law on Planning and Construction in 2009. That's when the conversion first appeared. However, the conversion mentioned at that time was neither understood nor could anyone exercise any right in it, nor was it done in it. And of course the Constitutional Court and those provisions in 2013. In 2015, this government passed the first law that gave effect. It was the first time that the law united and developed a program to work as planned for the conversion. However, the promoter today believes that there are certain changes that will certainly improve this area even better, so that today these changes are ahead of us, as regards the guarantees that citizens need to provide with at the banks, as well as that they have clearly defined the circle of persons to which the law itself applies. Furthermore, we have a bill on air traffic laws and amendments to the Air Traffic Act. I believe that today when you say air traffic in Serbia, we all immediately think of "Er Serbia". "Er Serbia" is indeed one of the first projects on which Aleksandar Vucic has shown that he is indeed a serious politician and that he has the will and power to make from one company that was on the verge of destruction a company represented by a regional leader in the area of air traffic. In addition, it says that only in the previous year, "Er Serbia" carried 2.8, million passengers. I repeat, before that, we had a "Yat Airways" which was on the verge of bankruptcy, and only in 2012. As I said, "Et Serbia" is today a leader in the region in the area of air traffic. Here, let's say, I can compare it with Croatia and Montenegro's airline. For example, "Er Serbia" flies to twice as many destinations as "Crocija erlines" and to four times as many destinations as "Montenegro Airlines". "Er Serbia" has a fleet of 22 planes, while "Crocija Airlines" has 12 and "Montenegro Airlines" has five aircraft in its fleet. Otherwise, "Er Serbia" flies directly to 61 destinations and over 100 destinations with Kod – Sher agreements. Only during 2019, Er Serbia opened ten new flights to direct destinations from Belgrade Airport and as many as 12 new destinations from Nis airport. Also, what we all know, and it is not burning to repeat, a direct flight of Belgrade -- New York -- was restored after 30 years. Of course, good results also show financial results. As I have already said, "Er Serbia" has ended in 13.8m euros since 2013, when it lost 73m euros in 2018. As far as Serbia's airport is concerned, and here we have great progress, of course, on 17 December 2019, the first Air Serbia plane took off from Morava airport to Kraljev. The Morava airport near Kraljeva represents Serbia's third international airport, next to the Nikola Tesla airport in Belgrade and near the Nis airport. What I want to say, too, is that the airport "Nikola Tesla" also showed good results for the previous year, showed the passenger growth by 9% and that is, last year, 6,158,980 passengers, and I believe we all remember, here. I can personally say, I remember in 2012, when I landed from Frankfurt, where everything was crawling with people, from passengers and planes, to the Belgrade airport, maybe there were twenty people, then the airport was autically empty, and today, just eight years later, we have a situation where our airport records the transportation of six million passengers. As for the amendments themselves and the addition of the law that lies before us today, we have a lot of provisions concerning compliance with EU rules. However, we also have proposals to significantly improve the issue of security, security and environmental sustainability. All of what I'm saying really goes in favour of saying that Alexander Vukic is really leading Serbia in the right direction, that Serbia is today, indeed, on the right path. When I say that, I can say that in a literal sense. Serbia is on good roads today. On these good roads, when I say, I mean highways, 350 kilometers of highways built, and only in 2019 was built 130 kilometers of highway on Corridor 10 and on Corridor 11. After 30 years, it was released, the entire length of Corridor 10, from the border with Hungary to the border with Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia. I sincerely hope we will never have a situation in Serbia to build roads for 30 and 40 years. By completing and releasing these roads into operation, the number of traffic, or the number of cars, has increased by twice, of the 37 million we once had, we have now grown, and is now crossing 57 million vehicles, which we can freely say that the transit through the Republic of Serbia has returned and we are glad because we have roads that lead through Serbia and on its eastern and western sides. What is a project that is ahead of us and needs Serbia is the Moravski Corridor and that is what it is, a road that will connect Serbia, which will connect Serbia in its seat. That road is necessary, and that road is just being built, and here, I say, it wasn't an opportunity so far, we're going to have a road parallel, along the road, building the entire infrastructure. The road will be digitized, and in addition to that, it will be done to establish the West Morava itself, so that we can say, and I can already say, in Serbia, nothing will really be far away. I tried, I don't have much time left, just to look back at some of the results of what the Ministry of Construction, led by Minister Zoran Mihajlovic, did in the previous period. Of course, Serbia is becoming a country of hope. Serbia becomes a country of the future, in which our children want to stay, and that path is indeed the real Alexander Vukic. The roads really can't be cheap roads. Good roads don't seem to last three, four, five years. Good roads pretend to go into history. And I am sure that the political path, which Alexander Vukic is building, will certainly be written in large letters in history, because he created a better place to live from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69437	Thank you, colleague Rakic. The word has the vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the minister of construction, traffic, infrastructure, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69438	Thank you for everything you've said. Serbia is on a good track, not only in infrastructure, but also politically, and it can really be seen every day. After all, talks are being held today and one of the issues that are difficult for all of us, which is normalising relations between Belgrade and Pristina. And I'm glad to talk about the railway connection, as we have a plane connection and that we'll also talk about the construction of highways. What I think would be important, because of the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, is what are the new practically infrastructure projects in the area of construction, primarily the roads, which we started to finance and which we are starting to finance in this and next year. Everyone, of course, knows about Preljin–Požega, Moravia Corridor, Sremska Raca-Kuzmin and the Ruma-Shabac and Nis–Medare highway, etc. But what I think maybe people don't know, and I think it's important to say, I'm now going to list projects that we're going to finance from different sources of funding. So, along the road Požega-Long plains, i.e. Bolara, 107 kilometers long. We're doing paperwork this year and we expect to sign a certain commercial contract. Then, reconstruction of the state road of the second row, Novi Pazar – Tutin, 20 kilometers, reconstruction of five thousand kilometers of highway and local roads. This is, by the way, the first time that the practical state has very clearly defined that it invests almost nearly a billion euros with one project and that we reconstruct, first of all, local roads, because there have been and are many problems precisely in local self-government units that are related to the construction or rehabilitation of local roads. Then, this year, we expect to start our works in March to connect Valjev with the highway "Milos Veliki", so it's a share of Valjevo-Iverak, 17 kilometers. Then, the fast traffic station Slepčević, the border crossing of Badovnci, so Pavlovića bridge, 15 kilometers long, then, the construction of a fast traffic station Požarec-Velika Gradište-Golubac, is 70 kilometers long. So, we're doing project-technical documentation this year. Then, the construction of the state road first A row from Kragujevac to the connection with the state road A in Mrcajevci. It's so-called. The forest corridor we were talking about. It's 35 kilometers long. Construction of a fast first-row traffic station Sombor-Kula-Vrbas-Srbobran-Becej-Kikinda, 132km long. Project technical documentation is also being done. A tour around Kragujevac, 23 kilometers. There's paperwork in the works. Construction of a bypass around Loznica, 15 kilometers long. Then, the fast traffic station Golubac-Donji Milanovac-Fast Palanka and Kladovo-Nogotin. The length of this section is 146 kilometers, as is the fast traffic of Paracin-Zaječar-Negotin, a length of 140 kilometers. A fast traffic station in Kraljevo-Usce-Raška-Novi Pazar, 125km and a fast road crossing with Hungary's Bački brig-Sombor-Kula-Vrbas-Srbobran-Becej-Kikinda, a border crossing with Romania, 175km. These are all the shares that are practically working, whether they are at the level of project technical documentation, whether they are already being prepared in front of a commercial contract, which is practically starting in 2020. Thank you for everything you've said.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69439	Thank you. We move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 13 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69440	Thank you. Indeed, this number of projects and investments in infrastructure is looking forward to it, because it is one of the conditions for the development and survival of the population in the whole territory, and in particular this determination of the state authorities to sort of include these edges in their plans and programmes and to start building and rehabilitating roads that are related to local communities. However, what I would like to ask, which is just mentioned, the reconstruction of the Novi Pazar-Tutin road, seems to me, in October 2018, to be signed an agreement with "Tashjapi". At that time, the minister said the idea solution and regulation plan and all technical documentation would be completed in 10 months, so we had announcements that the road construction would begin in June of last year, and then in September of last year, then in October of last year. However, we had some kind of performance on that road, building that road, when President Erdogan arrived, when that support wall was somehow done, but that doesn't mean anything to the whole of that trip. I know it's not finished yet, according to my information, all the paperwork. I want to ask the Minister if it's because the Tutin municipality hasn't done its part of the job yet, i.e. making a plan for detailed regulation for the part of the road located in the municipality of Tutin and is there a total system jam? Because I know that the city of Novi Pazar has already done it and that part of that road on the move on the territory of Novi Pazar has been done and covered by a detailed regulation plan. But the citizens of these environments, especially the frequency between Novi Pazar and Tutina, are really big, are still at risk in traffic, and it is still one of the worst roads in the state of Serbia. Since the deadline for making that trip is about 2021, and since it's so late with the paperwork, will it ever succeed in doing all the things planned for the reason that there are very demanding shares of that road and who will be able to deal with the consequences of being late? If this is the result of the lack of local authorities in Tutin, they should probably suffer the consequences. It is an international project involving the two countries and it is very inappropriate when it comes from the government's position, whether it is the minister, whether it is the prime minister, several times announces that the works will begin, that the work will begin. However, it takes a month after month, but there is no specific work on the road. Of course, according to my information, this is because local authorities in Tutin have not been up to this job, have not worked since 2017 on a detailed regulation plan, such as very worrying, and that all of the land that is located in local self-government authorities, under very suspicious circumstances, are being sold and construction permits are being given for the construction of various residential, business facilities without any control, without any precaution. We are in a position, let's say, that this one city in the state of Serbia has almost no territory for some serious investment, for some serious infrastructure projects that would be owned by the city itself. I want you to finally tell us the reality, what is it, when they're going to start making this road and who's really guilty of this long delay, because the workers of the Turkish firm Tasjapi have been stationed in Novi Pazar for some time and they spend their time without any work obligations. We from that loan pay the logs for their stay in our country, and we have no use. It's something that's been going on for six or seven months, as I've been familiar with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69441	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Prof. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69442	You're right. Of course the significance of this trip is very large. I will remind only you, and all those watching, that is that the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Turkey was made in 2009. So, since 2009, no one has done much of this way, except that it was in the agreement until 2015, when we restored a lot of what we agreed, above all our president with the President of Turkey and the documentation was prepared. The papers had begun with what you had already stated, but two units of local self-government were waiting to adopt their PDRs. The new Pazar adopted the PDR, but Tutin did not and we expect it to be by the end of January. However, of course, now the works can't be done because it's not a construction season and we expect, therefore, that from the beginning of the construction season the works continue on this road and we will certainly very quickly and end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69443	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At first, I would like to congratulate Savindan on all who celebrate this glory and the school glory of St. Sava to all the educational institutions where it is marked. The Law on Planning and Construction, until the 2019 changes, saw the underground lines of infrastructure facilities as public property, public goods that are above private property, and that is correct when it comes to public property, i.e. good about general use, such as plumbing, sewerage, electricity, etc. However, by putting private pipelines for mini hydroelectrics in the category of underground infrastructure facilities lines, as a public good of general importance, one private property, in this case the investor of the mini hydropower plant, altering and supplementing this law without public debate, puts it in a position of privilege compared to the other private property of the owner of the land, which I think is the opposite of the Constitution. I would take the opportunity to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the most resolutely competent minister another question, which is – how could it have happened that the PKK was sold from close to 17,000 hectares of the most orderly and qualitative land in this area at a cost of 4,600 euros per hectare, without being excluded from the area for the future route to connect Belgrade and Zrenjanin, so an alternative passage is now being sought? I would like, since the issue is quite present in the public, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister in charge to answer that question. Also, there is no dialogue in Serbia on essential topics of interest for the well-being of its citizens, such as GMOs, which I have talked about in this Assembly almost all the sessions since 2017 and beyond, and then on to mini power plants, environmental pollution and all the other problems affecting citizens. The media, instead of encouraging the team's dialogue, discourages him and chokes him. Perhaps the best example of what I'm talking about is the fact that the new film by our director Boris Malagurski "The Weight of Chains Part Three", which is currently dealing with these topics and which will experience the Serbian prime minister on Sunday, in the House of Unions, the former, and then in cities across Serbia, no public media has ever announced. The film has otherwise attracted the attention of the world audience. It is shown in cities across the United States, Canada, Germany, Austria, Switzerland and other countries, but in Serbia it seems that everything else is a priority, right now in the days when our country is at the world top for air pollution. Instead of starting a dialogue on these themes, the system ignores it. I would take this opportunity to call on all televisions with national frequencies and all printed media to break, under the quote, the vow of silence on the film "Part 3 chain weight" and the topics that the author of Malagurski is processing, and to finally start doing their job, serve their purpose – to be in the service of the public. I hope that fellow MPs will join me in this call, because this is the only way to democratisation society and change the system that ignores vital initiatives and citizens' problems. Otherwise, in this film, all those watching it will have the opportunity to hear the views of Noam Chomsky, the greatest living philosopher in the second half of the last and this century, then Catherine Jakobsdoutir, the Prime Minister of Iceland, then Manfred Moro, the German professor of international law, Domenik Leđer, founder of the Italian military observatory. I am sorry that there is no public prosecutor from Romania among foreign participants, although she was a guest in Serbia. From local experts, we will hear the views of Prof. Dr. Danica Grujičić, MPs of life protection Jovan Memedovic, economist Nebojsa Katić and many other experts from our country, including my little one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69445	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. Since you have asked certain questions, which concern, of course, directly the Vice-President and Resor, led by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, but she certainly does not have the obligation to answer that part of the questions that do not concern the particular subject that we are talking about today, and I must, for the sake of other MPs, say very clearly that there is no dialogue in the Assembly on important topics. A democratic debate and democratic dialogue of opinions, an argumentable democratic debate are being held in the assembly. It is a subjective position whether in your opinion a law is more important or not, but any legislative proposal on which we are having a debate has a certain importance and importance, and you can always move from the field of politics to the field of a reasoned democratic debate, which you did not do today in one part of your debate. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69446	Because of you and the public, first of all, these laws have all passed a public debate. When you mention the Law on Planning and Construction, so that there is no confusion, even now they don't write small hydropower plants, but we have proposed an amendment precisely to specify that only biomass power plants are in the function of agricultural land. The second thing you asked about the Belgrade-Zrenjanin highway, Zrenjanin-Novi Sad, was originally planned to be a fast-tracking. In this sense, it could have gone through populated areas, because simply, its width is not as wide as the highway needs and for this reason it is not looking for a new line, but simply looking for the most efficient and best route for that stock and we have already proposed it and it will be in public very soon. A spatial plan of a specific purpose area is being created, and there are no occlusive actions or I don't know anything else. These are important things for the citizens of Serbia. It's in our interest to get as many highways as possible, and as a budget, we're strong enough to support all of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69447	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Comrade Chevarlich, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69448	First of all, I would like to rephrase to the chairman, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69449	You can't rephrase a colleague to me, because you can't have a dialogue with me. I'm running a session and I respect the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you to do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69450	Well, then if I can't replicate, let the citizens figure out what that means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69451	You don't want to, I thank my colleague Shevarlic. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69452	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, respected fellow MPs, although the proposed amendments to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces are not large and relations essentially to increase the maximum flooring of the facility. I believe that, above all, it is necessary for citizens to say a word about the law itself as well as issues that are being addressed in this way. Not only is this law providing a roof over the head of security forces, which have not solved the housing issue, but resolving this issue is of great importance for only strengthening the overall national security system. In view of the importance and responsibility of the work performed by security forces and their importance for the security of the entire state, as well as, above all, the human and moral obligation towards all who during the wartime acts of the 1990s have made a significant contribution to the defence of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the state, and starting with the fact that the greatest number of unresolved housing needs of state officials in the precisely among security forces, I must conclude that it is shameful for the state of Serbia, primarily for those who from 2000 to 2012, made the republican and largely local authorities of those who today, such as Dragan Gilas, promise towers and cities to return to power, which these people do not have a lastingly resolved housing issue. How could they have solved the housing issue, when the goal of Dragan Gilas was to get richer and become richer even than the city itself, whose mayor he was, not to solve problems, both the citizens of Belgrade and all other citizens. The current republican government has, after more than a decade, during which security forces, and above all the Serbian Army, demoted and humiliated, made the most responsible approach to the system to solve all problems, both the security forces themselves and its members. In recent years, the government has put an emphasis on significant equipment and weapons of security forces, in line with the need to increase their combat lives, as well as on the degree of security of the state and of citizens, as well as improving the working conditions of its members, improving their social status, through increasing profits, and here, as we can see through resolving the housing issue. Just a decision to start building apartments for security forces has just been made on the basis of a number of needs of members of those forces. Looking at all the real needs, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to start building apartments in Vranj, Nis, Kralje, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Sremska Mitrovica first. In the first phase of the project it was planned to build a total of 7,965 apartments on about 590,000 square meters of gross surfaces in seven cities, at the beginning of the realization, i.e. in the first phase of 1530 apartments, of which it was already started with the construction of 792 apartments, while in the first B phase it was planned to build another 6,500 apartments, which really represents a significant shift compared to the situation a decade ago or even more. So at this point in Vranj construction ends in 186, while works on construction of 190 apartments last in Nis and Kralje, where 200 apartments are built, in Kragujevac 216 apartments, in Novi Sad 548 apartments, in Sremska Mitrovica 190 apartments, with the current realisation of the business in Vranj about 80% and on other projects about 25%. What is important is the fact that the state has provided local self-government with money for infrastructure, as well as what is important is that the buildings are located in good locations, with arranged infrastructure, kindergartens, schools and all that is needed to exist as content, so that future tenants can meet life needs and, of course, as is an extremely important fact that the quality of construction itself is in line with the highest European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69453	Thank you, Comrade Bagbitz. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69454	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Minister, with his associates, since the authorised representative, or representative of the SPS parliamentary group, has voiced a position to support the full set of laws we are discussing today, can only state the exact same position. With the fact that I have to make certain dipressions, as always, when it comes to certain provisions of the law, so I expect you to listen to them as always, so hard as ever, to try to improve the quality of this law, because that is the primary objective of the parliamentary group, because that is how the SPS parliamentary group only works. In particular, in the almost complete text of the law, we have procedural provisions that bind, and we can say, in part, materially legal that relate to the professional training of persons who produce appropriate planning documents, technical solutions or technical documents, and this condition applies to the contractor who also needs to be with the necessary professional references. Anyway, that's good. It is good that we will have certified persons who will have professional qualifications and, as such, participate in the adoption of appropriate acts, planning documents or in particular, participate in the process of carrying out construction works, i.e. building buildings. What's the matter? It is disputed that solutions to meet the conditions of those persons who claim to be licensed architects, engineers, etc. These solutions become final on the date of delivery, as you in the proposal for a law. By delivering to a party, it reaches its finality. What does that mean? That means that after that, those solutions can only be refuted by a lawsuit in the administrative dispute, in front of the Administrative Court. That wouldn't be so controversial, if it weren't disputed in professional circles, of course, professional legal circles, what about the principle of two-stageness? What about the right to appeal, which is otherwise a legal remedy, defined by the Administrative Procedure Act? Here, of course, if a well-intentioned proposal like this, a well-intentioned suggestion were to be accepted, the question would be, who would decide by that appeal? What is the second-degree body, would that mean a kind of more delicate way of forming an organ and body, when it comes to the area of construction? Would the government decide that, or would the government's commission or any other body be set up? In any case, Your Honor, the question arises that a party that does not have the right to appeal, which can lead the administrative dispute, comes into the next situation and then we will define the issue in a slightly more precise way. What's the situation? This is a situation where disputes are conducted at least three years before the Administrative Court. To be completely realistic, honest and open, I don't see your responsibility in the fact that administrative courts are burdened with so many cases that they have to face procedures that last three years and more. I'm saying, I don't see your responsibility in this, but I also see some kind of observation that implies caution, if you refer the party to an administrative dispute, how long this administrative dispute will last, and how long the party will spend in a senseless period of administrative dispute until there is a final solution, or a solution that can no longer be handled by appropriate legal remedies in a regular procedure. So we're putting the parties in a position to wait for their administrative action to be filed now to be resolved in 2023, 2024, 2025. I think we need to do something in this direction that involves protecting the party's interest, which provides additional capacity not only for legal protection, but also for legal certainty. Furthermore, what seems to be a good solution is the solution you have proposed in Article 13. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction refers to the provision of Article 45 of the existing law, and the obligation of local self-government to supply all data from the local information system, as well as the information available on the investment locations of the Office for the House of immovablety to enter into records, i.e. registration. Dear Minister, we are finally coming to a situation where we are disciplined by local self-government, regardless of who it was, whether it was municipalities or cities, which for decades, I repeat, for decades have done absolutely nothing to book property that is the undisputed property of these local self-government in the service of Catastar immovableity. What does that mean? This means that neither the citizens of Serbia nor we MPs are at all certain about public records, and especially the public records of Katastra. If the city, or municipality, is not registered on cadastrian plots that belong in the city or municipality and manage it, it is a serious responsibility of local self-government. It was this standard that you obviously recognized the problem and tried to solve it, which is what my Socialists, or our parliamentary group, are supporting anyway. What can also be seen as a good solution to the law is insurance for damages that seem to third parties in the event of any errors or failures committed by those persons who receive appropriate certificates and licences that I just spoke of. In the end, Your Honor, I must draw your attention to a part of the law that seems to me may lead to a violation of the principle of non-discrimination. Why am I saying this? There is a situation which is the last law, so with whom we are currently changing, the Law on Planning and Construction is designed so that citizens who join infrastructure content such as water, sewerage and other infrastructure connections can only do so if their facilities are legal. So, if they're the owners of legal objects. Such status does not have owners of non-legislative objects in the legalisation process. So, the legalisation procedure under the provisions of the old law is a question that has been raised backwards, but those persons cannot make accession under the provisions of this law. The problem is that we're in a situation where legalization procedures last for 10, 15, 20, 30 years. Well, yes, Minister, it's not an exaggeration. Just take the Zlatibor County I come from, and then you'll see that the fact that I'm taking out can't be doubted after all. But, well, your skepticism in that direction, of course, I can accept it, can be checked whether it was founded or not. What seems important to me, that's the last thing I'm going to say, is it's important that you look at this situation in an analytical way to determine whether these phenomena really lead to the inequality of citizens and to go back to an old solution that seems far more just to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69455	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69456	Thank you for your comments, your dilemmas and your questions. Regarding large licenses, I think it's a very serious area, we only did an extraordinary review of large licenses a few months ago, because in Serbia today, by doing projects and finishing projects, heavy financial and several billion euros, we really need to have very serious companies that really have to meet all their requirements, so that they can perform such actions at all. You're right, we've been pretty rigorous around here, we're not inclined to change and start complaining about the second degree, etc. I'd love to, we'll do an analysis, and we'll see if it can possibly be more efficient, but it seems to me to be an area where we have to stay quite rigorous as we really want to have quality. As far as this other part is concerned about objects that are legalized or not, we think it's one way to simply force these parties and entities to legalize as soon as possible. You mention the Goldibor County, we've done a lot of this Zlatibor County business. There are certain objects, unfortunately, that I'm not sure can ever legalize. It's now a question for some other institutions. We have also addressed some institutions about it, but what meets all the conditions can be legalised and this process cannot last ten years. Is that how we will, as you say, lead to a violation of the principle of non-discrimination? We don't think so, because I haven't seen which arguments show it. But what is our interest, our interest is really to make all those who can legalize themselves really complete that process, and on all sides we've somehow limited them so they can't find that space anywhere that they don't get mutilated. That's why it stands that way and in this law. But let's see your amendments, if there are, and let's take another look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69457	Comrade Jovanovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69458	Very briefly, the Honorable Chairman, because I will no longer replicate, this is now just one kind of exchange of views that I think can contribute to the better. Your Honor, when I was just talking about this two-stage thing, I was talking about legal terminology. If you translate it into a slightly simpler dictionary, that means the following. I understand you, you want to achieve a higher degree of efficiency and that's completely understandable. I was just talking about protecting the party, about a kind of absolutely unnecessary, quite long procedure that could be shorter. So I expect from you a kind of analysis of the upcoming period, which implies that you look at the situation in both option, is this two-stage thing that I'm pleading for and I'm behind my parliamentary group going to help solve it more effectively than before the administrative court? For 15 years, the Administrative Court has been burdened for 15 years by a huge number of cases which cannot be solved as a solution to the inflows that involve an effective trial, but are conducted, as I said earlier, very responsiblely for three or more years. It's a problem that needs to be solved somewhere. It's not yours, it's a problem with the justice system, but at the same time we have to look at it, because if we don't see it, then the citizens suffer. As for the other questions I asked, I asked him very clearly. I said - the principle of non-discrimination also implies equality, equality of citizens before the law. We're all equal, it's undeniable, when it comes to form, when it comes to practice and when it comes to something that's actually a situation, I'm not sure. I just pointed out problems in the legalization procedures that you've been repairing, as resolute minister, by making more changes and supplementing the law. Did we succeed in that whole thing? I don't think we have much to work on, and if you think we are, we can discuss it, but some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69459	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, now determines a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15.25 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69460	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament continue to work. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69461	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the ministry and cabinet, dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was selected from the SNS list – Aleksandar Vukic and the Assembly represents the United Peasant Party whose president I am. I will talk, as I have so far, about all those current issues and problems concerning the laws on the agenda, concerning the southeast of Serbia. I can say great commendations for all those projects that have been completed, which are ending, which is road infrastructure, railway infrastructure, the construction of the airport in Nis. That's all positive stuff. It was all done for the benefit of all of us living in southeastern Serbia. The great thing for all of us is the concrete work to complete the railway line from Nis through Svrljag, Književci, Zaječar, down towards Prahov, towards Bor. I can inform all of you that the railroad is running full intensity, that now it's in the part where the Svreljig that part of the track is finished. It would be a good idea in that section where the railway is finished to release from Svrlig towards Nis rail traffic, i.e. if we had the opportunity to operate the railways there to transport concrete thresholds from a company operating in the Svrlig concrete thresholds, which is the Div Svrlig. Otherwise, I need to say, and I would like the railways and the people who work in that section to cross over that in the next period when the railway is put into operation and when the rail is done and the train speed is projected, that we can have spring crossings that are provided not only with markings but with concrete ramps, that these people do not come into a situation to die, because there have been a number of cases where the entire families died in that section of the railroad. One more thing to talk about is the actual end of the Malcanic loop where it's all over, where the Municipality of Svrlig as well as the city of Nis has been given the opportunity to through budget funding to be a free pass for all our citizens who want to go across the highway. It would be good if my question was whether it would be possible for the next period during this year, now February, March, April of the month to enter into the process of solving and reconstruct part of the road from Malcana loop, and also that part of the road could be illuminated because it was unlit and done part of the road from Malcana loop to Knjaževska Street. It is very important for all of us and another crossing, it is from part of the Mačvanska loop towards the village of Prozek. It's also another bypass so that we can work easier, so that we who come from eastern Serbia, and we want to get to Nis, Nis is our center, that we can not make too much traffic than to take that detour. Thanks again. I will vote for a set of these draft laws as an MP for the United Peasants' Party because it is necessary. Once again, I can say commendably that the ministry you run, that the ministry is working with its full intensity, and that is how it should continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69462	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69463	When Corridor 10 was built, then one part of the IBRD loan remained unused, a contract was made with certain units of local self-government about it, so as far as this loop is concerned, during this year it will be, we will make a deal for this Malcanic loop, and we will see in the next ten days with the investor. The investors are Serbia's Corridors, whether there is a possibility for the road, but for the loop, the contract is going very quickly and Serbia's Corridors will sign it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69464	The word is Milija Miletic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69465	I'd like to thank the distinguished teacher. Thank you again. We have repeatedly talked about this problem which is really the problem of the city of Nis and all of us living in that part of Serbia, it will be a big thing to reconstruct this path, and it is really great information for all of us, and we will share that information with all of our citizens that they know it, because it applies to all of us. For these spring crossings, since I haven't heard, it's going to be the same big problem, because in the next period when these projected speeds come, those trains that go much faster, it's very important, not only to be marked by a sign, but there must be a possibility that where the most frequent roads connect to that rail, that there can be some ramp, in a way to make it safer, because our people's lives are in the first place. We had a series of situations right in Nis where there were unwanted things, where the bus took place, but we're not gonna talk about it, so it's over and it never happens again. As far as other things are concerned, what we're saying about this part of the road from the Malcanic loop to the average, it's one car accident. It exists, it's already done a project, it's done by the City of Nis Urbanism Institute, so it exists, and it just needs to be expropriated. I think that in a conversation with Mayor Nis, Mr Bulatovic, and with the head of the district, I have already received information that the city of Nis is already preparing certain things and that it will be with the support of the Serbian or Serbian Corridors to be part-helped financially and that part of the road will be done. Once again, I think it's really done right, that the airport should continue to be built, to be upgraded, because the state of Serbia has proved to be a real host. The low-airport has now shown what its true light, a large number of passengers, tending to be an even larger number of passengers. Since you, a professor, and a lecturer at the university, I can congratulate all citizens of Serbia today on the Holy Sava, with the desire that in the coming period we should all be smart in the same way and be smarter and work in the interest of our country of Serbia, in the first plan to develop southeast Serbia and the whole of Serbia. Thank you again and happy glory, my dear Serbs, Saint Sava.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69466	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69467	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with co-workers, today I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, as announced by my distinguished colleague, Stefana Miladanovic, and the mandated MP. Inland waterways, rivers and lakes represent the natural wealth of our country. There are also parts of human hands, channels, tracking objects. They all have multiple significance together, because they are part of transport and transport infrastructure, as well as part of the tourist offer, and can also be a significant factor in raising employment levels through the activation of certain investment projects. By creating an efficient, sustainable, standardised and environmentally acceptable system of inland waterways, both the population and the economy will benefit from domestic and international frameworks. The government and the Ministry of Construction, Transport, Infrastructure have realised the importance of this branch of transport and in 2015 a water traffic development strategy for the period until 2025 was adopted. A special place in the development of water traffic has the Danube, our largest international river, which runs through Serbia for 588km and has always been a significant stream with which the oldest European civilizations have formed. The construction, transport and infrastructure ministry has two new projects on the Danube River, which will return Serbia to the three leading countries of Podunov and make it a leader on water transport and goods and passengers, which Serbia was in the late 1980s. That's when we had a White Fleet in Vienna. This plan is very ambitious and brings back to life our water traffic, which we all know, after 2000, due to poor privatisations, died. The fact that water transport accounts for about 10% of the total transport in Serbia compared to 15% in the EU clearly shows that we have not exploited the preconditions, the natural resources we have, thanks to the excellent geographical position and, above all, 588km long flow of Danube through Serbia. River ports as the main hubs in the country's transport network connecting water and land routes should be one of the most important factors in the development of the economy not only of Serbia, but of the whole region. I will return because of their strategic importance to those two mentioned projects of the Ministry. One of these projects is building a new port in Belgrade, near Pupin's bridge, which should be one of the main ports in the Danube, and the other, for Smederjeveci, is a project to build a new terminal for the scattered and general burdens of Luka Smederevo. To date, the resolution ministry has already implemented a process to develop complete technical documentation for the construction of the terminal, successfully implement financial and technical negotiations with the European Investment Bank on the financing of the project, and will allow the proposed changes and additions of this law to continue to implement the last phase of this strategically important project, both for my hometown of Smederevo and for the Republic of Serbia within the deadlines set. The adoption of this bill will allow for accelerated implementation not only of this, but also of other planned capital projects, investments in the construction of Serbia's ports. When it comes to Lucy Smederevo, which is located in the industrial zone in Smederevo, the main goal is to allow the new terminal to overload various types of so-called. the scattered and general burden, which generates the economy located in the hinterland of the port, both Podunavski and Braničevski and Southbanat County. This extension of Luke Smederevo and the construction of a new terminal will satisfy the growing needs of production for mineral raw materials, especially Želizare Smederevo, because the current structure of the port cannot meet all the requirements that industry imposes. The works cover the rehabilitation of the existing port area and ports, as well as the construction of a new part of the port, construction of access stations and associated infrastructure. Namely, building a new transport line in Smederevo, which is in the final phase of construction, connects the port with the industrial zone and the railway Corridor 10, which together makes one very important strategic importance for that part of Serbia. And not just that. For Smederevce, it is of great importance to move the railway into Smederevo from the city centre in front of the fortress, which will allow Smederevska Fortress, one of the largest fortresses in the 15th century, to be placed under the protection of UNESCO. In this way Smederevo will not only be a city of iron and grapes, it means industry and vineyarding, but also a city of tourism. Among other things, Smederevo, along with other cities on the Danube coast, is in the project "Wake Danube". This project, launched in 2017 by the UN Agency for Port Management in Co-operation with the Development Programme, promotes the natural and cultural heritage of these cities, as well as the huge potential to be opened by the development of water transport and tourism, and the tourist port in Smederevo is ready for tourists. The new port, transport rail and tracking infrastructure will allow this part of Serbia, and especially the town of Smederevo, the former Serbian capital, to be a very important hub when it comes to this type of freight traffic, as well as a very important and desirable tourist destination on the map of Serbia, and for the citizens of Smederev a better and better life. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters will raise the quality of services provided by port operators as the overall competitiveness of the port system of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law is to equate the legal position and competence of the authorities and organisations established in relation to the realisation of capital investment projects in the construction of port infrastructure, design, construction and maintenance of port infrastructure, as well as the allocation of port concessions for the construction of port superstructure. The Ministry of Legal Provisions is an investor on capital projects of investment in the construction of port infrastructure, but there is a need to equalise the position and competence of the Ministry in the context of the implementation of port concession award procedures, which is an existing legal solution in the competence of the Port Management Agency. The existing administrative capacity of the Agency is a limiting factor for the rapid taking of the measures necessary for the implementation of the actions preceding the conduct of the port concession procedure, as well as for the implementation of the concession award procedures only. The Agency has not carried out any procedures to date. The existing law did not provide for criteria, and there was a possibility for the arbitration decision of the competent authorities and organisations, both in the enlargement of the port area and in the award of port concessions. The draft law introduces a minimum level of profitability of port services, as a criterion to be used in economic – financial and technical justification requirements for the extension of the port area, as well as for the award of concessions, in those cases where it is proposed to provide the same type of port services related to the same type of cargo by several port operators within one port. The Ministry may limit the number of port operators which may provide a specific port service in one port in accordance with the provisions of this law if there is no available port land in the port area where port services may be provided provided that port land is necessary for the provision of the same. The lack of restrictions can affect the safe operation and protection of the environment within the port area. The draft law sets out certain aspects of the contract on the performance of port operations in order to specify that lease agreements, i.e. the establishment of the right of citizens' service, are prepared as specific annexes which form an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Port of Work. The bill also proposes the removal of the boarding licence as a special document for the boarding of foreign nationals as members of the crew of domestic ships. As a member of the ship's crew, only a person with a shipping book can board. The ship's booklet is a document proving the ability to carry out operations on board a crew member's ship, a health condition, a property in which a crew member is boarded, as well as the duration of the ship's employment. A foreign national shall be issued a shipping book if the conditions laid down in the sub-legal act prescribed by the competent minister are met. The Institute of Permissions for boarding has been abolished in EU Member States, as well as in Danube coastal states, and Serbia remains the only country that requires a special type of document for foreign citizens who want to work on domestic ships. The draft law sets out the port area for each port, i.e. the port in accordance with the strategies and documents of spatial and urban planning and planning documents relating to water management. The proposed amendments to the charges for the use of ports and ports will be arranged to regulate public goods charges, except for the compensation for the operational use of the port, i.e. ports as good in the general application which is governed by this law. Since the proposed amendments and additions to this law have essentially improved the existing law, as well as contributed to the greater legal certainty of investors and will undoubtedly have an effect on the better lives of Smederev citizens, a city whose representative I am in this high house, in the day of voting I will vote for this law, as a parliamentary group of SPS. Eech, two on the draft law on hydrographic activity. The hydragraphy deals with measuring and describing the physical characteristics of rivers and lakes, as well as predicting their changes over time, primarily for the purpose of safe navigation and support of all other navigation activities, including economic development, security, scientific research and environmental protection. The draft law on hydrographic activity aims to regulate the legal framework for the implementation of hydrographic activity. To date, hydrographic performance has not been regulated by specific legislation, but rather hydrographic and topographic diameters on internal waterways by collecting data from hydrography, cartography, sailing, riverbed geology, production, issue and maintenance of navigation maps and publications have been regulated by other regulations. We'll vote for this bill in voting day, for the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69468	Thank you, Mrs. Ivkovic, the word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69469	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have many important laws on the agenda, and today I have defined myself as talking about the draft law on special procedures for the realisation of projects of construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens are witnessing that 350km of highways have been built in Serbia from 2012 to 2019, and these are results that no one can dispute. After 30 years, Corridor 10 was completed completely, from the Hungarian border to the border with Bulgaria and to the border with Northern Macedonia. In 2019, we had the opening of the eastern arms of Corridor 10, and just before that, the southern arms of Corridor 10 was completed in May, which for those of us living in southern Serbia has great importance, because it means survival for the citizens of southern Serbia, meaning better life, new factories and new jobs. Also, in 2019, at the end of 2019, we had completed 120 kilometers of highway on “Miloso Veliki” and completed the tour around Subotica, so on. The "Ipsylon Krak" connecting the Kelebia border crossing to the Horgos highway – Novi Sad. As far as railway infrastructures are concerned, from 2015 to 2019, 560km of railway lines have been reconstructed, and there are still 380km of work under way. On our tracks today, we have 48 new trains, 16 cargo train locomotives are also purchased, and as soon as tomorrow, we will have a bill on the agenda that will allow us to buy 18 more modern trains that will traffic on our railway. The fact is that, when building roads and railways, much time is wasted on solving property relations, before the release itself, the necessary calls are made and this is the most common reason why the works are mostly delayed. Making projects of parcelation and preparation, complicated procedures in the cataster, as well as the process of expropriation are too long, since roads and railways are built on thousands of cadastrian plots. In 2021 and 2022, five billion euros will be invested in infrastructure projects and these are projects of importance for the Republic of Serbia. I'll only count some of them, although today we've had more than one chance to hear it from the motionary's own representative. So, these are the highway E-763, part of Preljina – Požega and Požega – Bolari, then, we have construction of the Moravski Corridor, part of Pojate – Preljina. Also, we are expected to build the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor, the Novi Sad-Ruma section, the construction of the Nis-Merdare highway, the newly-planned road of Vožd Karadjordje, which will connect Šumadija with eastern Serbia, and also the reconstruction and rehabilitation of public roads in Serbia in the length of 5,000km. As far as rail traffic is concerned, we are expected to build a fast track in Belgrade – Budapest, then reconstruct the Nis – Dimitrovgrad railway and reconstruct the Nis – Brestovac railway. Also, major and significant projects are expected to build the subways. These are all projects, railway routes that are built a few tens of kilometers and several thousand cadastrian plots, and therefore it is necessary to adopt one of these laws today that will allow the process of construction and reconstruction to be accelerated. The subject matter of the law is procedures for the determination of public interest and expropriation procedures, i.e. the reduction of deadlines prescribed by the Expropriation Act. For all the projects I just cited and talked about, funds were provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget and guarantees were provided for loans, since funding of such large projects is always made out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. by credit borrowing. It is therefore important that we can predict in advance those deadlines for which such large infrastructure projects will end for a simple reason so that we do not lose money on undrawn funds, i.e. on the so-called. Penalties. The faster roads and railways are being built in Serbia, the faster Serbia will develop, which is the fact that without good traffic connections, we will have no new factories or new jobs. In the end, just as for your investment for southern Serbia and the concrete investment of your ministry for southern Serbia, which has been forgotten for years and specifically for the town of Leskovac, we have in the previous period had a rehabilitation of the road on the part of Nis-Leskovac in the length of 8.2 kilometers, a share of the agricultural school and shares on Nisko Street, which represent the very entrance to the town of Leskovac, which are very important for our city. Also, works on the Vlasotince-Leskovic route are currently being performed. After 70 years, the cube is removed and the citizens of Leskovec will finally have a second approach to the city after 70 years from the direction of Vlasotinac. In the next period we are expected to be reconstructed by Bulevar Nikola Pasic, or so on. The tours around Leskovec, which may be the most important approach to the city for us, and it will only unload the city's core, so I sincerely hope that we will move on as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69470	The word is Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69471	Thank you. Dear Minister with Associates, today I will talk about the draft law amending the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the Security Forces. By passing this law two years ago, we have shown how important this is, in general, the issue of housing security of security forces and the exercise of their duties, which is directly related to national and general security of the state, as well as to the security of citizens. Then we supported the law, as well as its changes to which security forces are joined by fighters, wartime and peacetime people with disabilities and their families. Enabling these categories under more favourable conditions and in a faster way, we consider a solution to the housing issue to be one of the government's good definitions. I would take this opportunity to launch an initiative that my colleagues and I have repeatedly talked about on several occasions to enable housing and other categories of employees, which are important for the overall social development and progress of our society. Here I think, above all, of healthcare professionals, of doctors who care about the health of the population, and unfortunately more and more young doctors and nurses go abroad, so that one of the most important factors, which would affect staying in Serbia, would certainly be a solution to the housing issue, but under conditions which these young people respond to and which they can answer. Also, a significant category is educational workers who form the largest part of the public sector, of which a significant number has not solved the housing issue, nor can they consider resolving this issue on market terms. Educational workers are raising and teaching our children and should be stimulated in this way. There are also cultural workers who almost have no chance of solving their housing issue. Yet, I would especially like to highlight young people, young experts in all areas, and young couples who have defined themselves to form a family. We know that young people are becoming increasingly difficult to choose for marriage and family, and two are the main reasons, which is work and apartment. It is not for young couples to be viewed differently as an active measure of population policy which, I'm sure, will have a stimulating effect on population policy and on increasing natural growth. In this category, we know that young experts from all areas are present, but young people from other deficits should not be ignored. I support the amendments to this law concerning the technical elements of the realisation of the housing building project for the security forces, but I ask the Government to consider the possibility of coverage and other categories of which I have spoken. I'd take this opportunity on something that might not be so familiar, I don't know how familiar you are. There is one category of people who received apartments in 2003 with only decision as users of these apartments, whose housing issue has not been resolved so far. So they're in unsolved status and it might not be bad for this issue to be raised or to be able to buy these people out and, of course, make these funds some new housing units for some new members of the security force. Also, the increase in this project, at the same time as the contribution to the development of the construction industry and all accompanying production activities, will benefit the entire society. In doing so, like other colleagues, I think it is necessary to employ, first of all, domestic construction and construction industry and make sure that projects are implemented in a quality way using all building criteria that include energy efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69472	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69473	Just one small addition to the apartments for the security forces. President Vukic has just initiated that this project certainly extends to healthcare professionals, Professor. There are others who are interested, so the government discusses such an opportunity in this regard. We believe we will come to a positive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69474	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69475	Thank you, Chairman. Since we have a lot of laws on the agenda and they're all similar matter, I'm going to focus on two. It's the Law of Planning and Construction, and I think there are three key changes here. I didn't hear it, it seems to me, that there were words about them in the debate, and that applies to the members of the 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14 and 19. The plan of detailed regulation was practically impossible to bring about because it was braked by the plans of the higher order. Space plan, urban plan, etc. This time it is possible for a detailed regulation plan, even with a plot, to be made only on the basis of a decision by the competent authority in the local self-government. It's one newspaper, one good newspaper, one acceleration. It's been done for months, even years. With this, we've cut a lot of things off, we've cut our lives short. Furthermore, Article 19 provides for corrections to the borders of neighbouring parcels, educated construction parcels, etc., which, in technical terms, has made it more difficult to realise this paperwork. I think it was very disturbing for those who used it, although they used it on the ground, they couldn't realize it in the competent state authorities, primarily in the Republic Geodesy Institute, or in the Office of the Immobility Catastrophe. This time, only on the basis of the geodetic elaborate can it be done, and it is a big, big shift, especially for those people who are in that situation, and for the professional people who do the job. Something that I think is most important of all, which is Article 12. It's the Investment Location Register. We've never had that in one place before. This time, the Law on Planning and Construction plans to be a system of national geospace data infrastructures. So, in one place, all the locations in this Serbia will be located where investors can have insight, interested ones, easier to identify for their respective locations. This will suit Serbia and the environment and municipalities and employment cities and one overall progress. As far as the Law on the Register of Space Units and the Address Register is concerned, it is a new law. We haven't had it yet. So far, this matter has been regulated in three laws and one sublaw. This time, the matter of the Register of Space Units and the Address Register is defined by one law, which is very good and so far there have been several who have implemented these laws, and now there is only one state body, or the Republic Geodetic Institute, with its units to implement this law. The new Law on the Register of Space Units and the Address Register, I say, defines what the Republic Geodetic Institute will do through its units in municipalities and cities. I would just remind the citizens here, although in Article 8 of the law it says, of the types of spatial units and I would especially highlight one. The spatial units are: the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, an administrative district, a unit of local self-government, a city municipality, a cadastrian slurry, a catastrian municipality, a populated town, a local community, a statistical circle, a census circle and, newly, an area of the polling post. It wasn't like the definition so far, it wasn't anywhere. As such, for the first time the area of the polling station appears, which means that within the space units and area of the polling station it will be envisaged, so that it will make it easier for all those who are interested to see the area where the polling place is, especially where they vote, to see the borders and, simply, it will be available to all citizens to see it. This law is written in an understandable language and is clear to its application and realization. The census, households and apartments in 2021 will be based on the Law on the Register of Space Units and the Address Register. If he's good, like basic law, then our list will be better and better. To the greatest extent, these laws will be implemented by the Republic Geodetic Institute with its units in local self-government. This is also an increase in the scope of the activities of the Republic Geodetic Institute, which should therefore be considered by increasing the number of jobs, quality workers, technical equipment, working conditions and material incomes in the Republic Geodetic Institute. We are witnessing the enormous importance of the Republic Geodetic Institute, for the citizens and for the functioning of our country's system. Well, for those reasons, he deserves full support from all of us. A modern and advanced state is not possible without a modern and advanced Republic Geodetic Institute, with its monasteries. I want to say one more detail and take advantage of an opportunity around an infrastructure facility that doesn't require large funds, but I think it's very important to my municipality, the municipality of Kocelev. The municipality of Koceljeva is located practically 30 km away from existing highways, or future highways. The existing highway "Milos Veliki" is 30km from Koceljeva. The future highway to Šapca is 30 kilometers away, the road to Iverko, or Valjeva is 30 kilometers from Koceljeva. As for the road Koceljeva – Šabac, Koceljeva – Valjevo, the road is extraordinary, the state road, excellent, so we will have a very good connection with those two highways. However, the road from Koceljeva to Milos the Great is seeking reconstruction. That's about 20 kilometers in total. Something was reconstructed there, maybe it's only 15 kilometers, and if we could find ways and opportunities to reconstruct that state road, I think the Kocelev municipality would find itself in a very favourable position, because our highways serve their purpose, too, if they have good access roads. I'd ask the Minister if she had that in mind. In the end, I will join the congratulations of the citizens, congratulating today's glory of the Holy Sava, especially of the schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69476	Thank you, fellow Matić. Now the word is Joseph Broz. Here you go, Mr. Broz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69477	The Honorable Chairman, a respected Madam Minister with associates, in the context of today's debate on the group of laws in the area of infrastructure, I will refer to the proposal for a decision to take away the properties of goods and the general use of works of railway infrastructure. It is a decision that will definitely change the intentions of cadastrian plots on which 22 railways have been on track for decades, which have not been used for decades. Normally, the railways were citizens in the old Yugoslavia, even the car factory was built, because the great giants were the only ones able to transport their products by rail. Today it is reduced, no more, the republics are special and it is normal that this land should be used to bring about other purposes and to be used for something more necessary than at this point in the former railways. To remind us that Serbia won the first track back in the 19th century, more specifically in 1884, when it was released into the traffic of the Belgrade-Nish railway. During the 20th century, more than 3,700km of railways were built in Serbia. Serbia was also a major railway hub for Europe and the international train. Internal rail traffic was highly developed, with regular rail traffic, connected large centres, but also smaller settlements. It is normal that these needs are no longer so and that this land should be used and brought to some other purpose. All this is happening is caused by some destruction of the great giants and those who used all these stripes. More than a thousandkm of railway lines in Serbia are out of use. I would point out that rail traffic is a minor environmental pollutant, especially on electrified rails, but it's kind of a general trend to reverse road traffic. One number of stripes, it's normal to modernise, and that's a good thing, and we need to bring in all the tracks that are worth some purpose, so they can be used. I would draw attention to the part of the decision relating to the location of Topcider and Tito's "blue train", which was the state-of-the-art equipped train in Europe. A great deal of interest has recently been about tourist engagements, however, less and less are being organised. I don't know why, but I do know that for example for the 29th November to go to Užice there were over 600 interested people, and the train can receive about 100 citizens. For these reasons, I also believe that the location, where the "blue train" was with all the following facilities, could be re-affirmed, re-arranged and again be the place from which the "blue train" could take the route of the Užičko Republic or another destination. I would like to remind you that the president of the state has recently said that he intends to receive one of these leaders from non-classified countries on a "blue train" and that is one good advert, and I think that this could be resolved by one good organisation and inter-republic some agreements, not only for May 25th, 4th, and there is great interest from all republics, so this could also be used for tourist purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69478	Thanks, buddy Broz. The word is Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69479	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished minister with your cabinet, wonderfully old Romans in just two Latin words underlined the importance of roads for then an empire, God and for today, today and today, and today's state, and said only "via vita" – the ways are life. In this way, they have really highlighted the importance of paths connecting people, goods, initiatives and which are the only chance of progress and the development of a country. This coalition of ours, the ruling one, that gave two governments really did a lot of work on the infrastructure and you said today 350 kilometers of highways is the result of these two governments. In 2019 alone, we have a 120km highway and it is the first and best indicator not only of the growth of Serbia's state infrastructure, but of the good leadership of the Republic of Serbia by this coalition. The second indicator of the good work of this government, and God gives me and your ministry, is that the Republic of Serbia is the ninth at the speed of issuing building permits in the world of gentlemen, which is the great result of your ministry, primarily of you personally. I think that the third thing that I'm going to point out and that I've just heard here shows a good orientation of this government, which is that I've heard these laws call Zoran's laws, it's a good thing and it's a sign that you're still with your charisma and I'm going to say what this government fully supports, so we MPs Rasim Ljajic SDPS, and that's supporting women's entrepreneurship and supporting and promoting the female leader, and you've really done a lot of good things in that field with your charisma, and I'm commending it. Gentlemen, we have a really important law on special procedures in front of us to realize the project of construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure objects of special importance. We heard that your ministry was planning a really huge amount in this development project, which is the country's own president in this agenda -- modern Serbia 2020. – 2025, presented and indeed our coalition supports the maximum, and this is the investment of five billion euros in infrastructure projects which, I will say, is a milestone and it seems to me that Serbia will actually make one infrastructure and, in another respect, a modern European country, which can be raised by its infrastructure, which is also a prerequisite for future industrial development. It seems to me that what we're doing today, which is speeding up procedures and bridging these bottlenecks that these laws are going to do, we're going to be able to solve the main problem, and that's the problem of expropriation in the process of preparing and speeding up the very beginning of the works on those capital shares. Indeed, I will again point out, not on the account of the ownership of individuals, of course, the principle of determining market value for exploited immovableities, which is the civilization's fluidity of Europe, will remain. It seems to me that exactly the property legal relations, i.e. the expropriation of land, were problems and a narrow throat in solving and beginning to build capital roads, and you said today that we are assessing about 50,000 parcels is the subject of expropriation in these large capital investments and numerous roads and highways that we have stated will start or are already starting. For me personally, since I come from Sandzak, or Novi Pazar, the most affected road is also the most significant road in southwestern Serbia, and this is the part of Novi Pazar-Senica. It is truly in a desperate state and it is extremely difficult to drive it, it is extremely and risky, and I must stress that it is not only a link between Novi Pazar and Sjenica, but it is an extremely important road that connects southwest Serbia with the rest of Serbia, with the pleasureous end, but also connects the Republic of Serbia in that part with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and complete transport and goods, and people, and services in that field. Currently, the city administrations of Novi Pazar and Sijenica end the changes in spatial plans for solutions that are complementary to the new project, the reconstruction this time, which finished the company hired by "The Way of Serbia", "Utiber", and according to my information from the main city architect Novi Pazar, all project documentation will be completed at the end of this month. This new project, which is 16 million cheaper than the previous solution, avoids a large number of curves and the famous “Postramac” serpentine where the truck was often stuck, but also many fatal accidents due to the backdrop. We in the SDP therefore support this law and expect to speed up the process of expropriation and the purchase of land on the track this time, which is the next step in the realization of the construction of the Novi Pazar-Senica road. Also, here's the mention of the New Market-Tutin road and reconstruction, and I'm really glad that the new season is about to begin, which will start building this stock in the new construction season. The city of Novi Pazar has done everything necessary. You have indeed announced the beginning with our Minister Rasim Ljajic several times, and I am glad that we will get into the beginning of this project very quickly. Of course, I'd like to ask you to make an additional effort to begin the realisation of this project, which is vital to the citizens of Novi Pazar and Tutin, and the Cave High. It's practically the only connection tutina has to the rest of this country. We have before us a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Serbia, or a bill confirming the loan agreement concluded between Serbia and Turkish banks "Ziraat" and "Denisbank" to build infrastructure projects in Sandzak and Vojvodina. The reconstruction of the state road of Novi Pazar-Tutin is eager to begin. It is an investment worth 24 million and will revitalise 20km in co-operation with Turkey's Tasjapi. Co-operation between our country and Turkey is exceptional. Turkish investments in the Republic of Serbia are higher from day to day and are growing and is very happy that the Bosniaks were and will be a bridge of good and growing co-operation between the two countries. The start of building these roads will arm good relations between the two countries and we hope to initiate a new investment by Turkey in our country, initiating Turkey's first investment in Sandzak, which so far has been a real place, which, since it had no good connection with other parts of Serbia, has been neglected in the field. In any case, you will have strong support for your laws by Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69480	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69481	Thank you for everything you've said, for supporting these laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I owe one answer to you, as well as to Koceljevi, which is that this year the Government of the Republic of Serbia is starting a new investment plan, which is five thousand reconstructions, five thousand kilometers of roads, mostly local and state ones. Therefore, Koceljeva-Ub is also doing documentation 21km, Novi Pazar-Senica 55 and Novi Pazar-Ribaric's 24th, which is in the programme 5,000km of roads. So, this year's paperwork with hope that if everything's okay, next year I can start the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69482	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Now the word has been given by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Mr. Sarovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mrs. Mihajlovic, listening to these praises of the previous ruling coalition representative, someone who doesn't know you would really think that you might be doing something good for Serbia. However, there are some of us who know you and who, unfortunately, are forced to follow your work over a long period of time, and thank God, we remember many of your promises of unfulfilled and numerous statements that have proved to be incorrect. I feel free to say that your entire political work has been followed by affairs, followed by scandals and non-transparent actions. However, you don't seem to mind it and as if you are openly telling both the citizens and the public of Serbia that your survival in the function you are in and at all many functions where you have been through a number of different regimes is not really dependent on your impact, but depends on some others, I would say above all, foreign factors. You brought in a lot of associates today, some of them starved, so here they are eating here in the congregation hall, which, I would say, is a serious scandal. But there's no one to warn them and guide them in the right way. However, you did not bring in your close associate, Miroljub Jeftic, who until recently was the director of the "Serb Railway" infrastructure. It is, for the sake of Serbian citizens, your close associate, the man whom you appointed to several important and responsible functions, who was recently arrested for receiving bribes precisely in connection with the expropriation we are talking about today, and who told the investigating authorities that a small part of the funds he was receiving had been delayed, that he was giving more to you and, as he said, to your husband Vladimir Atanackovic. Of course, if not any other affair in which you were involved, it didn't suggest you might resign, show what moral responsibility means, because everything and that it wasn't true what he said and that he didn't share that money with you, so I guess it would have to be a little embarrassing for you to pick that man and put him in the position where he acted. However, you obviously do not feel any responsibility and that you say in the previous part of the debate that we in the SRS are dealing with you, I guess that you are something of particular interest to us, believe that you as a person are absolutely not interesting to us and that, unfortunately, you are not the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister at several consecutive meetings, no one would ever pay attention to you. The very important question is how do you live and what do you live on? Citizens should be told that, according to your application, you do not receive salaries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor at the Faculty of Economics, nor at the Fund for the Development of Serbia, for some reason you refuse to receive compensation for your work. You said a little bit proudly how busy you are at Mega Trend and how you get paid there and you live on it. In my opinion, that would be sufficient reason to resign. Are you Mrs. Mihajlovic proud of working for years at Megatrend University and of participating in and building such a credible university. If the University of Megatrend is credible for you, for us from the SRS, it may be the biggest shame that has appeared in that educational sky of Serbia. It is a shame that someone who is in the government of the Republic of Serbia chooses to receive money from such a university where false diplomas are produced and that he is practically ashamed to receive compensation from citizens of the Republic of Serbia for his work. Did Miroljub Jevtic recommend to you that he destroyed the famous Kirilo Savic Institute, led to bankruptcy, drove into bankruptcy, into liquidation, left employees on the street, or at the bureau, to choose him as your adviser, and then appoint him as director of the infrastructure of the railway Serbia. Should I remind you, Mrs Mihajlovic, of your promise to the citizens of Serbia at the end of 2015, of course it was a pre-election promise, we warned the citizens, you said that when you said that out of a million and a half illegal objects in Serbia, even 95% could be legalised and that the new law, which was then before the Assembly, these facilities would be legalized within a year at most. And that would mean that some, over a million and 400,000 objects in Serbia, should be legalized. Not in a year, but four years from now. It could have been legalized somewhere around 15% of that number you promised. So, a list of those promises that you made to the citizens of Serbia, as you said 12 million vehicles passed over Serbia's highways, as you said there was 200km of new highway, in fact at that moment about 120, you open up the same highways over and over again, and then you add up all that stuff a few times. You owe citizens an explanation of how you live, what you live on, and how it is possible for a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia to live so luxuriously and at the same time disgusted with receiving compensation for his work from Serbian citizens. You owe it, as a public official, and it's interesting and the question is, here, that I don't forget, since you've lived in an illegal apartment for years, to hear if you've finally legalized it. You claimed to have bought it in 1998 from the money you earned by then. You, therefore, for 28 years of life, means, including study and all, you've managed to earn enough money to buy a 140 square-square apartment. So, in a few years. It would be interesting to see how many tax returns you filed for the income tax of citizens in that period for the few years.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69484	Go back to the subject, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69485	The topic is precisely the credibility of Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69486	Well, it's not Secretary Zoran's apartment. It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69487	And our thesis is that it's a person you can't trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69488	Just talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69489	... And that she has no credibility moral to represent any law in front of the National Assembly, and that's an entirely legitimate thesis. So the minister's credibility can be questioned at any time. The Minister may at any moment be called to account and it is normal that for you is scandal and which is surprising to you. The minister is here to answer to the National Assembly, to answer to us who bear the sovereignty of Serbian citizens, and we are not all in this assembly to serve ministers, such as you from the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69490	The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69491	Okay, who about what, radicals about Zoran? It's okay. You have the full right to ask questions about my credibility, and there are again institutions from the Anti-Corruption Agency and all those who are obliged to collect all documents, which have and at any moment can give you insight into, even the parts of the documentation that are not put on the site, because it is simply such a law, not just me, but a complete family, therefore, from my mother, the previously deceased father, yes, you are now laughing, but you have asked serious questions, so on serious issues I answer you very seriously and responsibly. So you have absolutely everything and every moment, just because I am in the political life of Serbia, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you have every right to ask and ask and to ask and get answers. What's wrong, it's not right to use lies and half-truths and bring opinions before you have any documentation in front of you. Therefore, everything Zorana Mihajlovic did or her family does and will do publicly and will always be public. I've never hid anything in my life. As far as the law goes, you've mentioned a law that's not on the agenda today, and that's the Law of Law, and also about my apartment, I've lived since 1999, that apartment has been working, for many years, he still doesn't have his own use of permission, when the building was being built up, and I've been given a building permit today as a construction minister, and I still don't have a license to use, because I don't think it's even right that I, as a construction minister, am now getting into this story about the legalization of my apartment. When I'm out of it, then I'll continue with what's called the legalisation process or the law of my apartment. So we can and should always talk about every minister, but every minister, but I especially like it when radicals always talk about me, and I'm here to make all the bills every time. But today we're also talking about laws. Unfortunately, I have not heard from you any argument about any law that I have obtained here today from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to defend them. What you definitely can't erase, so the paper can sometimes take a lot of things and people can say anything, but what you can't erase, that's what's visible with the naked eye, which is 350 kilometers of roads, that is, over 300 kilometers of tracks that have been reconstructed, that is, the third international airport that's been released, that is, water traffic projects. You just can't erase it. Everything else is subject to various discussions, half debates, thinking that people who are in certain functions, and the classification is allowed to talk about them anyway, everything is fine, I accept, all the documentation is available, whenever the radicals are looking for it, I can personally ask the agency to give you all the papers, if it's already not given by the agency. - I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69492	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I agree that we're really back on the subject and we're discussing the draft laws that are on the agenda today, to avoid... Not to avoid anything, but simply to be cultural and polite, to talk about laws and talk about what's on the agenda today. I haven't seen it anywhere, believe me, just here. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69493	Mr Marinkovic, you were obliged to warn Minister Zorana Mihajlovic that she is obliged to behave. She said I used lies and half-truths, and here, to hear one single lie I told. I, Mrs. Mihajlović, have not offended you with any of my words. I have asked principled questions that are perfectly normal, completely legitimate and of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If anyone here is rude, it's you, because you don't know how to behave in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the point is. The second thing, you didn't answer the questions I asked you. What questions will I ask you? I choose not you, not the chairman. Is it a shame, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that you are getting paid by the University of Megatrend, John Nezbit, or whatever his name is now? Are you ashamed to participate in this lasciviousness and is it a shame for your colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be seated with them by someone who gives legitimacy to something that might not even be called the University? You're giving legitimacy to a man who sells university to people he's not sure exist, fictional characters and photographs that were bought over the Internet for a few dollars? Did it occur to you at least at that time, if not earlier, and you had to meet both the owner and founder of the University earlier, and that might be the best indicator of how well you judge people, and maybe that's the best indicator of why you have this particular Miroljub Jeftic, who is also a professor at private university, he, though, mastered the "Brother Karic" and he is a professor there? It may have been the basis, you may have met at a seminar, so you recognized him as a quality associate, but unfortunately he came here to rob Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69494	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69495	Here, the chairman, we're going to have to lower the censorship to 1% if the previous speaker continues to keep reporting, or maybe to set that natural threshold, is that it's not a national minority, but it's still a political minority, but well, let the president of his party worry about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is interesting that in this debate on a number of draft laws that are on the agenda we do not hear any fundamental criticism on the very proposal of the law or any serious objection, we are hearing only the objections concerning the character and work of a minister, in this case Mrs. Mihajlovic. And that, among other things, says that these are good bill proposals and that they contain a number of benefits for our economy, for our construction industry, but also benefits for Serbian citizens. This is what the best results in this field are about and when it comes to the permanent growth of the number of building permits issued, which you, ministers, have also talked about and the number of current construction sites in Serbia, and we have already heard about it. Therefore, 72,371 building permits were issued between 1.1.2016 and 31.12.2019. When it comes to the number of active construction sites there is currently, again as we heard from you, Madam Minister, 53,642, which is an increase of 319% compared to the same period, and when we had 12,800 sites. So these numbers are inexorable in that sense. These results are inexcusable and undeniable, which is most important if we know that construction is an economic momentum, i.e. to run other branches of our country's economy and to affect GDP growth, and to reduce unemployment and everything else, then it is clear how important it is for our country, as it is important to highlight both the results in travel and traffic infrastructure. The results are evident and this was said by the authorised representative of our party, Mrs Katarina Rakic, so over 350km of highways released in traffic, of which only in 2019 130km, over 300km of railway has been reconstructed so far, a third international airport has been opened and much more has been discussed by colleagues. Like I said, these results are obvious and undeniable, now, that someone might not like it, but still no one tried to dispute this data. Someone may not like the minister, someone may not like another member of the government, someone may not like the President of the Republic, one of us MPs, it's all okay, but it doesn't diminish the importance and value of what I was talking about earlier. So that's a whole other thing and it's not the time or place to discuss these things here. On the other hand, the chairman, when it comes to the second part of the opposition, which has not been coming to meetings of the National Assembly for a full year, and if they receive the salary neatly for it, then it is that Gilas' opposition from the Alliance for Serbia that boycotts parliament, which boycotts everything other than the salary from the Assembly restaurant, that concerns, the chairman, one, as I would say, the necrophilic policy that is being led by this Alliance for Serbia, and it is being seen, in me, inexplicable need to use just every tragedy here, just any incident that happens, just any elemental accident to blame it on power in Serbia, and we saw it the other day when they used it the other day when they used what was killed here in front of the National Assembly building, so they immediately hurried that after-poly, the sooner they accused power, the regime, and the sea. So, immediately their bots tried to blame the government in Serbia, blame it on the situation in Serbia, and be careful how morbid it is, so immediately on social networks, Twitter and others tried to blame the state for killing themselves, then turned out for quite another reason. One of those titles is: “Poor man, I have no words! This has never happened before! Clearly, a man sent a message to the regime. “ So this is one of their tweets on Twitter’s social network. Well, one says: “The message is so clear that it screams. “ One says: “From boycott to freedom. “ Watch out, this is what they associated with the boycott and with freedom. Many times in the past they have reacted in a similar way in these and such events, and I sometimes really think that they can't wait for an accident to happen in Serbia, some human tragedy, some elemental disaster, as if they're just looking forward to it, as if they were then looking forward to it, heating up and accusing the authorities of such examples. So this is all about their hypocrisy, but it says that they have absolutely no idea, no political idea, no political programme and no politics. For that reason, I want to support all these draft laws that are on the agenda. The Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will vote in voting day for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69496	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Comrade Sarovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's interesting that those who criticize others don't talk about the agenda talk about everything and everything every time, absolutely things that have nothing to do with the agenda. Here if there were some selection and if the speeches were thrown off Google, those who were prescribed from the reasoning of the law and what they learned by heart as sparrows believe that there would be no two men here in the ruling coalition who could speak and get a word. So you are unable to speak specifically of any law, and for this reason you have done what you have done to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's never been worse. There's never been any more unquality debates about laws. You've come up with an amendment, you've disfigured and destroyed everything you've ever thought of and destroyed. Please, Mr. Chairman, warn the minister to leave his cell phone and not speak to you while the MPs discuss it. It's rude. (President: What bothers you? What's the matter with me? Well, let him out. It bothers me that she didn't come out to make a phone call, like it's her turn. That's what bothers me. It bothers me that they're eating in the O.R., it bothers me that they don't deal with the law, it bothers me that they're on the phone and they're chattering with you. It bothers me because it's rude. But it's a much more serious question, Mr. Marinkovic, and why doesn't that bother you? Why did this get normal for you? That's what the basic question is. What have they done to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69498	Thank you. Right on the line, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69499	The chairman, the previous speaker says that I did not speak about the law, and in his presentation, which lasted almost ten minutes, absolutely not once, so he never said a word of the law. I'm not talking about the laws that are on the agenda, but the law didn't say one word at a time in ten minutes. On the other hand, the previous speaker here shows a nervousness for which I, frankly, have an understanding. It's a matter of nervousness as a result of public opinion research. The results of the public opinion survey, as I can tell you, put the party from which the previous speaker comes into a group of parties that are somewhere below the 5% censorship of this current censorship, so we hope that after the reduction to 3% that it will be okay. On the other hand, I am concerned that even this 1% reduction I was talking about will not bear fruit if the previous speaker keeps appearing and appearing in public. My sincere recommendation to the party is that the previous speaker appears as little in public as possible, that as little as possible, the less he speaks in the National Assembly, because the chairman, then 1% won't be enough, or he won't be able to help them be a parliamentary party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69500	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Nemanja Sarovic has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69501	Mr. Markovic, you've mixed up a little. The Serbian Radical Party is the party where I am, and that is the party you come from. You are the one who sold faith for dinner, you are the one who broke the oath given before God and who thinks that the oath is a can of pasture and that it has a term of duration. The other thing, Mr. Markovic, there's no need for you to take care of me either, you take care of the citizens of Serbia. And if you're talking about something, let's see when you finally show criminal charges. I'll remind the citizens that you claimed that in Vracar, in the municipality where you live, yellow thieves stole hundreds of millions of euros and that's why you filed criminal charges. I asked you to show at least one, you're in no condition to do so, because you've either lied or protected yellow thieves. Here, eight years since the SNS is in power, you're talking about thieving, hundreds of millions of euros, billions, but no criminal charges. You're protecting yellow thieves. Some of you have accepted in your ranks, some of you have chosen as ministers, some you have appointed for very important functions in Serbia, there is nothing but responsibility. And that is the essence of your rule. You only know how to deal with others. Serbia is not a happy country at all. We're a long way from that level of development you're talking about. Young people leave Serbia every day. We're a country with a lot of problems. Instead of trying to find some of the national interests around which you will gather most of the citizens of Serbia, you are only dealing with witch hunting, you are accusing the opposition of not being able to do so much or so much, so you will lower the censorship, but you have no idea that you are changing something in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69502	Thank you. The right to replica has Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69503	Well, the chairman, about yellow thieves, has been told by someone who has worked with Dragan Gilas for years, most transparently co-operated with Dragan Gilas while Dragan Gilas was mayor, in that term, when Dragan Gilas was destroying the city of Belgrade, tasked the city of Belgrade. It was on Dragan Gilas' payroll. Introduced by the SRS, against will and without the consent of the president of the SRS, who was not in Serbia at the time, introduced the government of Dragan Gilas in the Belgrade City Assembly. And for what? If you are wondering why, because of the money, because of the supervisory boards, because of the boards of directors in public enterprises, institutions whose founder is the city of Belgrade, etc. Now here we are told by a man about yellow thieves, who is still in the coalition today with yellow thief Mark Bastac in the Old Town municipality. I think I've become boring already with the question of what else should be done, what should happen if you finally leave the government where you're sitting with Mark Bastac in the Old Town municipality? On the other hand, there was an oath. The truth is, just for the sake of the citizens, I must say, I never took any oath in that sense that Mr. Sarovic was talking about, and especially I would not take an oath to tolerate a false application from the Belgrade municipality of Old Town in the town of Vranje for travel expenses. You know, the MP logs in to some address, fictitious application, and then he charges the logs, and the worst part is that he was a councilman at the Old Town Municipality. It's an extremely immoral approach. I'm sure none of the honorable men would sign or take an oath like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69504	Thank you. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69505	Freud said the first sign of human stupidity was a complete absence of shame. And that is something that is often recognized in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Many here think they can insult and speak without any cover. Veroljub Arsic: The first you. Who's throwing that away? Veroljub Arsic: I tell you! Come on, get up. Raise your hand for the throw. Veroljub Arsic: You thief! Come on, get up. (President: Please, colleague Arsic, let our colleague Sarovic know what he has. Here, let me say it again. The first sign of human stupidity is the complete absence of shame. I see that in this statement many have recognized each other. A lot of people here have recognized themselves, they're in pain, that's why they earn, that's why they're jumping, and that's exactly why they're fake experts and people with bought college diplomas that I was talking about in the previous period. Mr. Alexander Markovic, you just said that I was on Dragan Gilas' payroll. I, Mr. Markovic, claim you're a liar. Let's see which one of us is right, so whoever is found to be lying is responsible. I don't run from it. In that mandate you spoke of from the city's budget, Dragan Gilas gave a million euros for the Justice daily, which was your party's vote since November 2008 and beyond. Never until that moment, until you and the likes of you left, you, however, were, much later, when the girl made you leave the Serbian Radical Party, never until that moment did the dinars win. We were the strongest opposition to Dragan Gilas. For two years, he could not enter the City Hall from us, and the meetings of the City Assembly were never for longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69506	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I would ask the People's Messengers to address one another with respect. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69507	Very brief, Chairman. It's another mention of my girlfriend, how a girl, if I understood correctly, made me do something. Apparently someone's boyfriend made something else, maybe to work with Dragan Gilas. But, Chairman, whenever the previous speaker gets up and talks about what he's saying, I realize that Sigmund Freud was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69508	Thank you. Comrade Sarovic, are we going to finish this ton of replicas now, please? (Imanja Sarovic: We are discussing in the same tone. Without a fight, he didn't insult you. Thank you very much. I have no basis for giving you a replica. You know I'd always give you a chance to talk, but right now I really don't have a basis. I absolutely didn't recognize you in his speech. The word is Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69509	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we adopted the Law on Special Conditions for the Implementation of the Building of Apartments for Security Forces project just over a year and a half ago, and we have discussed the amendments and additions of that law twice, and I believe it was justified. For the first time, we made it possible for fighters or families of fallen fighters and military disabled people to compete for this type of apartment. Also, that's when we figured out certain priorities. These changes, which are now on the agenda, allow the design and finding of the most technically optimal solution, in accordance with the location and the current planning documentation. In this way, restrictions will be removed in the technical and technological solutions that were on the ground, which could be encountered in practice. Building these housing complexes has a lot of significance. First of all, security forces will easily reach the roof over their heads, but building these apartments will also have positive effects on the entire economy. First of all, it will be the extra wind in the back of the construction industry, because it will be employed by our domestic construction operation. Our construction material producers will also benefit from the benefits of local self-government, on whose territory these apartments are built, because they will collect income from property tax. On the agenda are amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act. The goal of these changes and additions is to improve security in this area. And in this area, some progress has been made in the previous period, and I, as an MP from the Kings, must point out and praise the work of the Ministry, because it has begun to work on the territory of Kraljev and Cačka and I hope that in the future, this airport will not only be in the function of transporting passengers but also in the function of transporting goods. For the development of this region, it is also important that the construction of the Moravian Corridor, which will complete the network of highways in central Serbia, is started, because it will connect Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 and in this context it is important that we adopt the draft law on special procedures to implement projects of construction and reconstruction of infrastructure facilities of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia. By adopting this bill, we will speed up the resolution of property-legislative relations and thus allow projects, i.e. the construction of traffic infrastructure, to be launched, to be completed as soon as possible, within the deadlines given. Because of this, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed changes and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69510	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today could be the ideal day for the start of the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Madam Minister, you could have noticed when you arrived at the National Assembly that although there may have been more than 130 MPs, there were no cards, and therefore this indicates the situation. This isn't the first time. This is the second time that has happened lately, as you come here, and you from the ministry, here, Mrs Damjanovic, she was there during Oliver Dulic, you might be able to find, I guess you're professionals... Let me just say, Mrs. Mihajlovic, you as Zorana Mihajlović are not the subject of our interest. We're fighting here to preserve the huge funds that go through your ministry and, of course, most of it is credit funds. Someone's got to get that back. We take care of that, too. When we say that you have unfoundedly spent more than 300 million on the Moravia Corridor, we must say, yes, you say some infrastructure works that weren't planned in the first phase. Do you have in mind that you have knowledge, that I am absolutely certain, that one of the owners and the management rights in this "Bechtel" William Walker? Do you know who he was? You know, an American diplomat and a CIA spy who supported the Cypriot terrorists and, along with others, funded and triggered an artificial conflict against the Serb military and police. That this is so, that he is a respected citizen, says the fact that in 2008 he was declared an honorary citizen of Albania and that in 2009, he was from the so-called so-called country. The countries of Kosovo received the highest medals for some special merits, all of which were the most favourable, you had to bear that in mind and should not have made such a decision at all. No minister, since the multi-party in Serbia, has proposed as much special or lex speciality as you have. You actually want to get rid of the responsibility of tomorrow, when someone comes to check it out, see what it's about. There's one more thing. The way you dress, where you go, where you spend money, it doesn't interest me perfectly, but you're... Of course, the public is interested, but I wouldn't spend much time here. You are incorrect both to the president of the state and to the president of your party. You otherwise send him messages and signals that you are absolutely dissatisfied with his political belongings, his career and all that he did in an earlier period. The question is that he did not become president of the state, and before that, you would never be a member of the party, unlike some colleagues who may be the first party, the second party, did not matter and who came out of conviction. We Serbian radicals are absolutely certain that you in this party are not out of conviction. We're just talking about those highways, the roads, the reconstruction of the railroads that you said, 350 kilometers of highways, 300 kilometers of built railways, you said that we were in the world by issuing these building permits and you also confessed. That's not good. You may be partly right, that you will not solve a problem now because you are a resolute minister, but you cannot hold the hostages of millions of Serbian citizens. They're not construction, infrastructure and traffic ministers, but you and they want to solve this problem, but you don't let them. You're not up for it. Furthermore, we worry that in this law on planning and building in full, I cannot say equal, but even more favourable position you put foreign natural persons in relation to our educated and professional people when giving these licences. What's gonna happen to us? We will find that these individuals, the individuals, will come and get the right here and get those licenses, and then they will hire our experts to perform certain works, where the fees they can make will be more than they would be if they were to get the job directly to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, we were telling you when there was a law on resolving housing needs for persons who are members of the security force, we were saying that this circle should be expanded, i.e. to think about other citizens of Serbia that these housing problems are being solved, and you are going towards the target by groups. Do you know that a large number of security forces are not in a situation to buy, but is paying rent in some of the apartments they received for temporary use, so a number of members of the Police Administration in Šapec with different places in the Mačvanska County are not able to buy out of it as early as 2012. Will their problem be solved under the problems of these others? Here one question arises, that you do not in this way violate the structure, the qualification structure in Serbia, that all at once, because they will have a more favourable treatment in resolving the housing issue, do not go into some of the occupations that enable it at this point. If you have the best intentions, you have to see it one day, and in time to stop it, or to limit it. It's an optimal thing to strive for. It's not always possible, it's not always simple, but that's what you have to do and that's how you solve it. Some colleagues here have been saying that the roads in Serbia are excellent. There are, but there are also those bad ones, where you seem to have forgotten, and you come, you come, you know, from a party that spoke – expertise in front of politics and even regional development. As a citizen of Serbia, I don't see anything quite like that. A colleague, Veran Matic, said what is the connection between Koceljev municipality and Valjev and Šapec and that is true, but what is the situation, what is the way from Koceljeva to Osecina, and beyond Osecina to Ljubovija, for example? Or, as is the way, there is no colleague Mladen Lukic here, he knows well that one part between Bajina Basta and Kosjerić municipality, so it is a link between two municipal sites, and today is a macadam road. There's no asphalt. Furthermore, will you, perhaps, slow down the project of building a tunnel through the Kadinach and will you speed up the project and the idea of building a tunnel through the past, so that the construction of the Bratoljub Bridge for which I do not personally consider you to be the most responsible? The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mrs Mihajlovic, also, but you had to bear in mind that fact and six or maybe 6.5 million invested in the construction of the Bratoljub Bridge, did not get its application today either. You knew this, that there was no agreement, there were no approved funds at that time, and maybe it was meant to wait there, or be more aggressive when the permit was to be given by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are questions that we are much more interested in than what you wear, how much your gloves are worth, where you celebrate fame and everything else. That's what the public is interested in, but for us as serious people who do this job in the most serious way possible is less important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69512	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69513	First, I want to thank you, because you are the first representative of your political party to really talk about the laws. Thank you for that. Milorad Mircic: Are you crazy? So, for the first time today, we're really talking about laws. I'm sorry that some others are getting things, starting with whether I'm normal or not, so they can hear Serbia's citizens looking like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69514	Please, I beg the Members of the People's Parliament, I beg your pardon. I implore the Members of the People not to receive the Ministers, why are you offended? What's wrong with you? Don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69515	So, you have representatives of political parties who directly tell a member of the government – are you normal, etc., and I only thank you once more because you talked about the laws that are today in front of all of us here in parliament and that I really want to talk about. Also, you set up, to go somewhere from the end, as far as the Bratoljub Bridge is concerned, it was done, so planned and completed two years ago. On the Serbian side, everything has been done, even funded by the bridge, precisely because of our people, therefore, who live on both sides, so to speak, Drin. What was the problem now, as far as I am informed, is the money of the Capital Authority or as they are already called, indirect taxation, pardon, Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they did not solve their share of the common border crossing because they allegedly did not have enough money. However, this thing is, according to the latest information, resolved and we expect this year, we hope, therefore, that what is their obligation, that by the summer, it will be over and that we have one common border crossing, which will also be good and speed up simple flow and people, and of course goods. Also, you mentioned and, of course, said something about the roads in Serbia. I don't know, only that we all apologize as a government that we haven't succeeded in these few years to pave the way for all the roads in Serbia, but it's simple, it's the only thing in the area of construction that goes much slower than what should go, and we really need to find a way to stop cities and municipalities from really doing the legalization itself. If we've solved everything, I really hope we can work it out. I wouldn't answer a few more things you mentioned, but maybe just in the end, don't worry about my relationship with the president, it's still my relationship and the president's relationship, and you don't worry about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69516	Thank you. Right on the line, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69517	It is not nice, Mrs. Mihajlovic, to insult the MPs of the SRS. I'm not familiar with any of my colleagues, any time he wasn't talking about the laws. They always talk about laws. Perhaps my discussion is the most modest of all their discussions. I don't know if we understand each other. I'm also interested in where you got that kind of money when you made that much money? The bridge was completed two and a half years ago. Two and a half years ago, it wasn't two years ago. It was opened twice, even in an election presidential campaign once and finally, when the campaign ended on 20 October 2017 for the second time. We just want to follow as responsible people because we will return it, because it will bring back the children of many people in Serbia, all of these loans. We just want to know where that money is going and to make it all transparent, that's what we're interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69518	Thank you, colleague Peric. According to the Rules of Procedure, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69519	I'm advertising a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I warn you, Mr Marinkovic, to draw attention to the members of the executive government to treat parliament and parliament with respect. We MPs can, in one way or another, comment on the behaviour of individual members of the government, in these comments we can sometimes use words that are not appropriate, but that is why it is the role of members of the executive government to suffer, to answer the questions related to the profession, to specifically the Government's proposals, and not to comment on the SRS, and from the address to address, it is constantly stressing that the SRS is not doing well, how in the SRS MPs behave unculturally. The Serbian Radical Party has been around for 30 years, exposed to public eyes, criticism, not changing our attitudes, not changing our programme, not from today to tomorrow. We are proud of those who have remained, endured all temptations, not ashamed of those who at one time bowed down, but we do not allow those who have changed more parties than I have changed the stockings in my life, to hold our forebear. You should first be constant and constant in one political option, to say – this is my political idea, this idea I belong to, I'm programmed in this way, not to change from power to power, so praise individuals. You used to have Miroljub Labus, then Tomislav Nikolic, or Mladjan Dinkić, then Tomislav Nikolic, as they would say, all my way to mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69520	Thank you. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and in an explanation, I'm going to quote my esteemed colleague, Verica Radet -- in politics, if you think you're giving the punches, be prepared and receive them. So I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. So, we're here in the arena, in parliament, don't get so angry. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69521	In accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I do not want the Assembly to declare itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69522	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Zorana Mihajlović, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69523	To answer my colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69524	He has the right of a previous speaker, which is why I gave you an advantage, because you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and she has the opportunity to replicate the previous speaker who spoke, which is Sreto Peric, so on his line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69525	Just to answer that neither Alexander Vukic nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia went and opened twice a bridge, as some before Alexander Vukic did, of course. So, when we talk about Bratoljub, then when the bridge came together, we went to visit, and when the bridge was completely finished, then there was the opening of the bridge with then Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, then to Mr Dodik, representatives of BiH and the prime minister, then to Aleksandar Vukic. Indeed, we never dealt with these things because I think it was just ugly in the previous period, because we were looking at some ministers who opened up five roads of various bridges and eventually left nothing behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69526	Thank you. The word is Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69527	Mrs. Mihajlovic, it could have been just ministers, your colleagues from your previous parties, and since I can't judge it now, I don't do that kind of work. You've been twice, and it's mostly kind of a match, mostly it kind of coincided with some electoral activity. That's what you're doing, what you wanted to point at, and I think that after a little while, if you had any bit of awareness, you were probably embarrassed. So you were at the bridge opening two and a half years ago. That bridge is beautifully done, finished, but today it serves, today, we don't say it will stay that way, we want it not to stay that way, it serves only as one memory or expectation of something that will be in the future. But, here, you have a chance, if there is more, if Alexander Vukic continues to believe in you, and around you will come to him, you have a chance to fix it by approval, construction and by working on making project documentation first and later building a tunnel through... We are not saying this because of where the tunnel would go and because of where the exit would be, but because of the shortest connection between the large part of Republika Srpska and BiH and central Serbia. Serious and responsible government and serious and responsible ministers should act as such and do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69528	Thank you, colleague Perich. Right on line, Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69529	Just so there is no confusion between Serbia and BiH, an interstate agreement has been made. What was the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia did in the day and ended the bridge. What were obligations under the international state agreement of BiH, unfortunately BiH did not respect the time within which it should, but what is important for citizens, for all of us, is that compared to all that we now have as information, we will finally have that bridge in the summer. When you also spoke, perhaps it was an accident, you said – in my previous parties. For the sake of the public, I was only in one party before the SNS, the party's name is G17+, until 2004. After that, I was completely independent, and in 2010, I entered the SNS. So I wasn't, as your colleague said, changing parties more than he was stockings, but two, so I believe that stockings change more often than twice. So, only in two parties and this is the party I've been in for nine years now, the SNS. So it wasn't more than those two.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69530	Thank you. Sreto Peric has a right to replication. A colleague of mine called, but Sreto Peric is right. The Minister didn't mention you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69531	Mrs. Mihajlovic, you have a good chance of identifying who will be next in power. It is true that you are probably from the beginning of the establishment of the SNS in it, but you said earlier, you said that you were a member of G17+, a party that has so far had the lowest percentage of the support of Serbian citizens in the history of vis-supervis Serbia and has had the most serious financial institutions, i.e. had the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Dear colleagues, MPs and SNS, and other parties, the fact that prices and taxes are still being paid today, is the result of the G17+ party. What are you doing out there in that party? She was one, then she's in SNS, she says, and she's in DS -- I won't, I don't want to be in a party of expensive cars, jeeps and the like. When it was DS, she was there. She got very significant positions in the SNS and probably spends money without serious control, and that's why she finds the SNS interesting. It's not about you, it's about a colleague who looks a little bit like you, so she's there now, and tomorrow she's gonna be who knows which party, if she's not in jail, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69532	Thank you. He had Mr. Peric, I would gladly give you a real opportunity to speak, but no one mentioned you, the minister did not mention you. You're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I really don't have an option. (Milorad Mircic: Just to clarify some things. There'll be time later, please. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69533	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, representatives of the ministry, when on the agenda we have proposals from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, we get a chance to talk about the results that are visible, about the results measured for miles. At the very beginning, I would like to congratulate you and your team on the sacrifice, on the perseverance in order to build our country and thereby improve the standard of living on the one hand, but above all to implement all the projects that Alexander Vukic has announced. You have shown by realising concrete projects that Serbia can follow up the most modern countries and that it can develop in a better way, because these projects on the one hand involve a lot of labour, but on the other hand they mean hundreds of millions of euros in investment, and what you will agree would not be possible without the financial stability of our budget. So we need to take into account the projects that have been completed, but also those projects that have started and, of course, those projects that are just being planned. President Aleksandar Vucic spoke about a new investment cycle and we can mention the highways whose construction started, such as the Moravski Corridor, such as the Ruma highways – Šabac – Loznica, Preljina – Požega and Sremska Raca – Kuzmin, but there are also planned projects, which I recently spoke of, about the Nis – Merdere highway and its great importance, not only for the Nisav County, but also beyond. We have the Warm County, we have the Pirot County, which passes a highway that will connect about half a million people, and besides that will be part of the transport network and directly, or indirectly affect the development of the economy and trade. Investment in infrastructure is certainly not wrong, because it invests in better integration and better business, and all of this only brings benefits to citizens. Exports from Serbia are an important factor in economic development and an important factor in job creation. In 2009, Serbia's exports of goods amounted to 5.9 billion euros, and in 2018, exports amounted to 16.2 billion euros and should continue to work, and new highways and easier integration will allow us to do so. Since 2012, when the SNS took over until 2019, 350km of highways were built, and the number of vehicles from 37 million in 2014, increased to 57 million in 2019. In addition, highways have been done by many major infrastructure projects. In this regard, it is important to adopt changes, which will allow for faster implementation of major infrastructure projects, within the framework of the new investment cycle, and besides everything else, these changes are also ahead of us today. In 2020, the Serbian government set a year in which a new investment cycle, worth about five billion euros and more efficient administrative procedures will start to build new roads, railways, ports, better municipal infrastructures, etc. I have now presented only part of what has been done and part of what the government has planned in the area of traffic, construction and infrastructure, and on this basis, I can say, that it is quite clear why members of the Alliance for Serbia are upset and why all of this, which is what we are talking about, which is the results of Alexander Vukic and the results of the Serbian Government, why they have not had and have not had the opportunity to talk about such results. This hatred for everything, which is good in Serbia, and which is, of course, the result of the work, Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia, is in fact the product of their incompetence and desire to deal primarily with themselves and their own interests, rather than with the citizens. No political program has to offer to the citizens. For a time, we remember, they even had a tent in the park across the street from the presidency, and even that tent doesn't exist anymore, and they shut it down. They, of course, spread destruction everywhere, harassed people in RTS, harassed people on the street. We build, and then we have Bastache who goes and fights traffic signs, knocks down those signs. We have Bosko Obradovic, who, as a national MP, beats Serbia's flag on the windows and doors of the National Assembly. Parliamentary dialogue doesn't mean anything to them, they wanted a parallel parliament, but other than lies, affairs, insults, with microphones in the hall of the National Assembly, we couldn't hear anything else. When someone tells me, very often, to say the same thing about them, I ask the question, and what else about them to say, except for what I've stated so far. They have not shown a shred of interest to make Serbia better, except for the interests they have shown for the citizens, which is to manipulate them daily by placing lies and affairs on them. So my wish is to keep working and build our country, let them go to the polls, and we'll see if they can get that 3%, and we'll have a chance to talk about it at one of the next sessions. Of course, the SNS parliamentary group will support these proposals, which are ahead of us, because it is quite logical, we want to be part of a plan that implies that Serbia is a modern, developed and regulated country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69534	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69535	Dear vice-presidents with associates, colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, my impression is that in 2019 it will be included in the history of central and western Serbia, when it comes to civil aviation. This year, the state has set aside 645 million for these airports, or for all airports, and it certainly won't be enough if such a good mission and vision of the development of our civil aviation, or civil aviation, continues in this trend. As for what was done before, for decades as my colleagues had said before, decades before this had not been invested in the development of infrastructure at all, and it was a prerequisite for many companies to come and fly, first of all from Nis. Today, from Nis can fly, to twice as many destinations, following the arrival of Er Serbia, before the takeover of the airport by the state, Nis is now managed by all airports in Serbia, except Belgrade and Nis Airport in 2019 reached a figure of 422 thousand passengers, and in 2018 it had 351 thousand, which means that the trend was imminent. At one of the previous sessions, I was talking about the signing of a contract with SMATS and finally a contract with SMATS was signed when it came to renting land to build a tower at the airport. Everyone talked before that, but at the moment in Serbia's airports, this management was right to achieve what was necessary for the Low Airport. As I said, this is the right way to develop air traffic, to your credit, and thank you for your support and for our region in South Serbia, and so should continue with this clear vision of development and other airports in Serbia. In the voting day, the SDPS will support a set of draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69536	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's today, we have 20 laws on the agenda. The laws explain and exposé are submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and by Minister of Resorni Zorana Mihajlovic. What are the laws, like that and the exposés? Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that the MPs, from the expert public, will come before the MPs and submit the exposés, in 20 laws, in 10 minutes, and for every law, 30 seconds. There's such an exposé for nearly 20 years, since I've been an MP I haven't remembered, nor was that possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very much boasting here that Serbia is in the ninth place by the number of building permits issued. Where's the proof? Who made that up? He may be in front of Bangladesh, or the South African Republic, for the City settlement where 2 million black people live. Well, maybe they didn't issue building permits there. I ask the question – where is it published? Where's the proof of that? Don't tell the Minister how many pending cases there are. Don't laugh. I'm a serious man at age. You mock the MPs, which is inappropriate. It's a reflection of the question. Please, why don't you tell me how many pending cases there are? How is it possible to tell a story, and today it has been announced that 17,000 households are waiting to solve the legalisation problem, although it is not legalized today on the agenda? There, you have 17,000 on Starry, you have 35,000 unresolved sewer problems in Kaludierica, Mirieva, Palilula, who are you talking to, and who are you convincing? Don't. Come out correctly with accurate information in front of the MPs. This is a parliament where ministers must take care of how they treat the MPs. There are very good and honorable ministers in this government who come and don't mock the MPs, they don't call them like this and like this. You, when you come to parliament, must bear in mind that your parliament has chosen you, Madam. When it comes to your portfolio, it's not your fault. It's the government's fault, and it's the state that has concentrated 40% of the financial authorities in the portfolios you run. What's your Ministry doing? The Ministry of Railways? The railway used to have a railway minister, Serbia had a minister of traffic, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, you now have the Ministry of Infrastructure and everything is under your control. And no wonder, you're not yet commander of the Air Force and the PSC, or you're not commander of the Navy, even though we don't have the sea. There's no sea, no Hungary, and there's a navy. It's just that you're still missing someone to give you power and then you're gonna be a pretty lady smiling, and you're having the means of this country and the taxpayers. You boast and say, we've finished roads, so many hundred kilometers of rail, so many miles of highways, so many regional roads. Listen, please, it's not you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that's what the citizens of Serbia and the taxpayers are building, and you're just a clerk there who needs to take care of how the state funds are being spent, that's number one and who controls. Where's your road construction surveillance? What, first of all, is the square of thousands of square highways, what is the thickness of the asphalt, the composition of the material? You were talking about the way to the League of Obrenovac wasn't very good. No one answered. Who answered? Did you have a surveillance service? What happened to derailing the walls on Corridor 11? Did anyone answer? Nobody. What's the material damage? Great. Who's going to make up for that? Will you? You can't do that. You're not allowed that way. You're moving the Ministry south. Now move the Ministry to Murtenica, the municipality of Nova Varosh, where you haven't even given a yellow bank, so on local and regional roads. Have you, Madam Minister, been to the village of Negbin? It's a strategic road between Zlatiborski and Raška County. Did you maybe go through Negvina, Genic, Gojgic, Drdarevic, Popovic, did you go through to Jasenov, to see how these citizens live? Everyone wants their youth to stay in those villages, and they have opportunities to deal with agriculture. Make them the four and a half miles, which is all that's left to set up the asphalt, the bike track, they'll be happy. Madam Minister, what have you done with Beovoza? What did you punish about 15,000 Pančevs who cannot come to Belgrade, while students and students and workers come from Panchev to work in Belgrade and to school? Russia has given for the reconstruction of the 42m-euro railway. How is it possible for you to punish the citizens of Panchev to go only to the sheep? He went during socialist and radicals right to Panchev and the suburbs of Vojlovica. What did you do there? You're nothing. You have punished the Pancevas and the citizens of Panceva who have the right to ask you as minister to resolve the matter. What did you do as a minister who breaks paths in Vojvodina and makes so much damage? What have you done to stop the Bulgarian, Turkish and other pass-by helmets, come to Smederev, move through Kovin, Pancheva, Kovacs, Zrenjanin, Kikinda to Sudotica, and do not pay the toll? Tens of millions of damages are caused by damage on the roads, and the damage is even greater that they haven't paid, which is what you're not doing? What did you do, Mrs. Mihajlovic, about the construction mafia on Zlatibor? What did you do there? Since you're the minister there is no Zlatibor, but has become the wild west. Here, ma'am, you see how many buildings were built in the middle of the center where they shouldn't have touched that piece of land of nature where tens and tens of thousands of citizens came. Go, you'll see that the lake has a multi-story base, and the disgust says "Aliba". Who gave him an alibi so he could build in the middle of the lake and on the foundations of the lake? You're saying it's about solving the issue of building permits and legalization at the bar level. So, ma'am, are you the building minister? What did you do, do you exercise control or do you not do it? What did you do? What's local self-government doing to you? Why don't you solve so many unsolved objects? Those items deserve your control. Who's in charge? Secondly, Madam Minister, how is it possible for major capital projects in this country to be built without competition? You know why? Because that's where anyone can fit in. Is it true the Chinese were interested in building the Moravia Corridor? Is it true they were asking for 500 million euros? Is it true that the American company was contracted to do those jobs for 800m euros? For 300m euros, the more countries paid, 8,527 apartments could be built for security authorities, a 70m square area at 500 euros per square square square.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69538	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69539	Thank you for all the questions you asked. Let's start with Nova Varosha in this same 5,000km project that's about to be reconstructed. There are several roads that are just bound to the area of Nova Varosha, so we can see exactly what the roads are after. I can't say all the names, I admit. The other thing, you asked, where are we the ninth in the world? Well, the ninth in the world is on the international list of how jobs are done in every country, so, Duing Business List, which is made by the World Bank, and it ranks 186 or 187 countries in the world. Serbia is in ninth place, second to the rear. So she was at that time of 184. 2013 What you asked from the highways and tolls, you're absolutely right. For several months now, the "Serb Roads" have been running analyses. We're just trying to find a way, and we're certainly introducing a fee for using the highways just because they're going around the highways now, so we're talking about heavy freight traffic, and that's how they're essentially going through the highways and they're destroying the highways. Thus, it will certainly be introduced during a future period. Yes, you asked me about Zlatibor. The Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure filed a criminal report to the D.A. for organized crime against five or six people just for criminal construction on Zlatibor and we did it three years ago, with all the evidence and all the papers. I still believe in our competent authorities and that in that sense we will get some information. You're right, wild construction on Zlatibor isn't since yesterday and it's not since four years ago, it's just taking a little longer and it really looks really ugly, first of all for such a beautiful mountain. That's the maximum the ministry could do. It came out with all the inspections, it was all done together, and, of course, a huge number of criminal charges individually for all those who built in places where they couldn't build on Zlatibor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69540	Right on line, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69541	Mrs. Mihajlovic, I didn't get an answer about Beovoz. That's number one. Secondly, you didn't say anything was it true that we were the ninth country under the building permits? You can tell us now, there are honourable MPs, as much as the requirement for the issue of building permits from 2000 to today, and then tell us about it is solved so much, unsettledly, well, then we can measure whether we are on the ninth or behind Bangladesh. Secondly, you said about Nova Varosh, you said you had an alleged plan to solve local roads in the territory of Nova Varosh municipality. You know, it would be very useful for you to list these villages, and there are White River, Donja Bela Reka, then Ljubish, Jasenovo, Oykovica, Kućuni, Negbin, Genici, there are a lot of young people out there who want to stay. They need it a little bit, and they don't need it for the four miles. I ask you – will the government be able to participate, since you have constitutional obligations in relation to regional development? Article 194. The constitution obliges and the government is obliged to lead to a regional situation and development. Will you do something for Negbin to Jasenov, there are only four miles left, and the army has done the good work before?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69542	The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69543	Dear President-in-Office, respected Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Mihajlovic, it will probably be easier for you to listen to those of us who want to praise and talk positively about your work, the results you showed in what you yourself said about how many highways were built, how many tracks were reconstructed, how much infrastructure was repaired in this country. I am going to tell you that as MPs who support this government and you as Minister of Government, we also support a set of laws that are on the agenda today, which aims to enable even faster development of this country, even faster implementation of the project in infrastructure, because, working on the site, I faced problems of property-legislative relations, when there were more moments when something could not be done, but when it could, and recently, before this mandate, in Smederev, I faced the construction of the zone and that there was no Mr. Vukic to cut and help, it would never have been completed, and now in Smederev we have as many jobs as the "Streasure". So, we need to have system-based laws, not to depend on the president, not on the ministers, but on the Assembly to pass it, with a proposal from professional people, and that we apply it and we know the rules. It's impressive what's been done. I don't need to talk about it. The results are completely clear and measurable. I come from the Municipality of Smederevska Palanka and I give you the enormous gratitude of this people who, between 2008 and 2016, is completely devastated and you are all witnessing here what has been found. Since 2016 and 2017, the picture has changed completely. All debts, I say, have been analyzed, and the problems that existed there have been solved. Much has been built in the area of road infrastructure. I will only mention people from the forest village of Kusadak, where the road has passed through the village, 12.5 km. They say it's like they went out of their sleep and saw it, they didn't believe it. They wouldn't believe any promises. People of the Cerovac local community, where you've been, where maltenes all over the village have been paved up. There are still a lot of things being done in the municipality of Smederjevska Palanka, but what I want to ask you to do, and I wouldn't say it here in this Assembly, actually, my colleague Natasa Jovanovic and I, a year ago, were looking for a reception with the director of "The Way of Serbia", in writing. We didn't get any answers. It's the Palanka-Mladenovac road. He is not planned for these big projects that are now expecting us, but what I want to tell you is that since Mladnovac is connected to the highway exit at Mali Pogorec, it is the shortest and fastest road to Belgrade. What was done for the Great Plan, it's extraordinary, we respect it and it's our way out south. That's the nearest exit to the highway we've got three miles. However, our goal is to go to Belgrade. And all the villages in the Smederjevska Palanka municipality want to go to Belgrade. The young man rehabilitated about seven kilometers last fall. It's not on the level that it was done for the Great Plan, but it's very good. I also ask you to "Serbian Roads" to look at that road, which is 25km long. Maybe half is needed to rehabilitate and we don't need anything else. And if you look, ma'am, Corridor 10, look at the map of how he's going. He goes to the Little Fireman, sometimes, turns towards Smederev, returns to the Great Plan, bypasses Mladenovac and Smederevska Palanka. And this time it's the direction, the natural direction, which connects two cities and enables us, and not just us, but also many Mountainers who don't want to pay tolls want to go this way and many other registrations, from Paracino. I'm telling you that people at a time when there's not so much work in the Smederjevska Palanca, as it used to be when Gosa worked full capacity, find employment, a small number, I'm free to say, abroad, and a large number in Belgrade. And that's good. They go from six to nine in the morning to Belgrade, depending on who works and from 3 p.m. to 19.00 p.m. return to Smederjevska Palanka, where they live. So I'm asking you to look at it. It's not a big investment compared to everything we've done in this country, and I'm looking forward to every mile that's been done. One more thing, please, you've renovated the railway from Mladnevac to the Great Plane through the Smederevska Palanka. It's great, 120 kilometers of trains running, mostly freight, not so many passengers, which I'm sorry. There may be things to fix, but what I often experience at a road crossing, which I am forced to cross twice a day, my colleague mentioned, is that he works as a lunatic, or sometimes a blinker, sometimes comes along and does nothing. I came by this morning, waited half an hour, no trains, no ramps. Give it to us, please, so it doesn't put a stain on those quality projects they've been doing, a completely reconstructed railroad. I thank you for everything you've done. I also thank you for what is planned to be done in my municipality, in the wider region. I appreciate what we're doing to connect with neighboring countries. That's very important. You have support. Unlike those who criticize you, we appreciate the work and watch the results of that work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69544	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69545	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, respected MPs, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure planned to launch a project from a new investment cycle worth about five billion euros in infrastructure projects in its work plan and budget for 2020, and more efficient administrative procedures will help build planned routes, railways, air and water ports as soon as possible. This will allow faster and more efficient implementation of the project than important for the Republic of Serbia, from the land supply process to the issue of necessary permits. All these projects represent line infrastructure facilities. These are projects of importance for the Republic of Serbia in road infrastructure: the construction of the Moravski Corridor, the construction of the Frushkogorski Corridor, the newly planned road "Vozd Karadjordje" that will connect Šumadija with the east of Serbia, and the construction of fast roads, in the railways we have the construction of a fast track in Belgrade – Budapest, as well as the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway. All projects planned in the new investment cycle will have positive effects so that they travel faster, easier, safer through Serbia. In addition, we will also have lower transport prices and improved accessibility to all parts of the Republic of Serbia. With this connection, we will have an increased demand for transit through our country, resulting in an increase in revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget now, but also for future generations. We work and build for the future of our children. The regulations of importance for the bill are regulations governing the field of expropriation, then the area of planning, designing and construction of public procurement and customs regulations. The proposed changes mainly relate to the shortening of construction deadlines and the efficient implementation of infrastructure projects. The former government could and had a chance to do something. They didn't do it because they didn't care. They were just taking care of their pockets. The job of politicians is to make people's lives better. In the next period, the state will be able to function even better. Investments will do their part. Unless there are investments and projects, there is no growth in GDP and technology money. In the next 2025 period, the state will invest nine billion euros in infrastructure. It's an advantage and it's a developmental opportunity for Serbia. That's what we do. This is an important step that allows progress. This investment and construction will employ a massive 36/2 TD/IC construction industry, which will raise GDP, as well as development of tourism potentials, better budget filling and allow for economic growth and Serbia's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69546	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Studenka Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69547	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister Mihajlovic, we have learned that when people from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure are in this room, this must mean some new projects, and it is really so implemented in the previous period that we are quickly and easily accustomed to Serbia developing, building, making progress. We almost forgot that for decades before the SNS came to power, we had a terrible picture of infrastructure and construction and all the other important segments in the country. It's not said in vain that a man can get used to the good. What is good for eastern Serbia, in this material that is here in front of us, is quite certain project to build a fast traffic station Paracin – Zaječar, with a short cut towards Bor, for which the documentation is being prepared. You, Mrs. Mihajlović, will supplement me if you have discussed how to finance this project or if you have any additional information. The next item that is very important for Bor is the highway "Vozd Karajordje", whose arm will go to Svilajnc, Despotovac, all the way to Bor. The length of this highway will be between 220 and 270 kilometers depending on whether it will be connected to corridors 10 and 11. It is known to all of us that these projects are a momentum of the economy and that, with good infrastructure, we can expect economic development, and eastern Serbia, or the city of Bor, is already expecting large investments by a Chinese partner to invest $800 million in the expansion of mine production capacities, but will also invest in the development of a new copper and gold mine. This certainly means hiring a large number of workers, meaning a multiple increase in revenues for the city's budget and means the economic shift of that part of Serbia that served earlier authorities exclusively for robbery, for the sale of factories that were immediately closed and for the release of tens of thousands of workers. The third major investment, which is very important, is the fast traffic station Kladovo – Negotin, length 146 kilometers. That part of Serbia is beautiful and people couldn't come often because of very bad roads that haven't been done in decades. Such an infrastructure connection will now be possible, which will be an incentive for both tourists and businesses, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises. This means a new way of planning the future of citizens of eastern Serbia, reducing the outflows of the population and new opportunities for development. So we can only thank you and thank Alexander Vukic for caring for the real needs of the citizens of eastern Serbia, and we can only ask these people of the Alliance for Serbia if they still don't understand why we thank him every day. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69548	The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69549	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a respected minister, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conversion of right of use to property, the Government of the Republic of Serbia plans to further regulate the works of the law relating to construction land and to enable the benefit to be converted into property rights among citizens who have acquired land in the use of an autonomous province, local self-government units or from the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the direct effects provided by this law, which relates to the possibility of converting the right of use into property rights, with the payment of compensation determined on the basis of a unit of local self-government, i.e. a unit body of local self-government in charge of property-legal relations, in accordance with the act establishing the average price of a square metre of building land per zone for the determination of property tax. This law makes it possible in an indirect way to facilitate the process of legalising buildings built without a building permit, as well as obtaining building permits on land on which one building is not built. All these measures result in an increase in revenues to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the AP or local self-government units. As of 2015, about 800 million dinars have been made on the basis of compensation for the conversion of construction land, which are used to improve and build infrastructure needed for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens should know that the budget of the Construction Directorate is being charged on the basis of the issue of building permits, land change, land lease or land conversion, and that these funds are returning to the environment from which they are collected to finance the construction of a water network, sewage networks, sidewalks, roads and all other necessary infrastructures needed for a more comfortable life. The law also took into account the resources that are citizens. Land users already paid on the lease over the plot in question. The price of conversion will be reduced by the amount already paid with the adoption of the report from the expert of economic profession and the conversion of the amount that was once paid to today's real amount. An additional benefit that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS want to further stimulate citizens who are conducting the conversion process is to reduce the final amount by 30% compared to the total amount needed to pay for the conversion. The additional reason why I decided to focus my discussion on this law is in the fact that a large number of citizens from the territory of the township of Surcin, with whom I also come, have a problem with enrolling property rights and legalising objects for reasons why the right to use them over building land makes it impossible. The Serbian Progressive Party as a responsible party to all citizens by adopting this law opens up the possibility for citizens who possess land in their user status to exercise property rights and all other rights, as well as obligations arising from property rights over land. I would like to present a specific example concerning plot 1285, specifically the Catastrian municipality of Vienna on the territory of the township of Surcin. The plot was set up in time by the Agricultural Combinator “Future” Dobanovci at the time to the city municipality of Zemun, which is further based on the conclusion of the executive council, which is, in fact, the larger city municipality is now assigned by an act available to third parties, which has more. Some 300 decisions on the allocation of part of the plot were made on a concrete plot and construction facilities were built on a good part without a building permit. Today, due to a change in the ownership structure in this combination of registrations of a new owner who entered the right of ownership after privatisation, it is not possible to exercise a plot or enter property rights on the specific land in question. This case isn't just in Vienna. We have a case in the territory of the township of Surcin, the city municipality of Zemun, in the territory of Belgrade, as well as Stara Pazova on which there were combinations with which local self-governments carried out similar transactions and citizens for this reason today cannot exercise the right to land and legalise facilities that exist on these parcels. These cases are present, as I said in the territory of other municipalities, but my application is that such a problem of citizens can be solved by the conqualification of the contract, with joint efforts both of the units of local self-government and city municipalities, as well as of the restoring ministry, which through mediation between the units of local self-government of municipalities and property bearers in order to solve the problems of these people, who are the only property and roof of the head acquired on this land, which cannot be obtained by the failures that the previous regime has made and which today should correct the Government of the Republic of Serbia and SNS. I would like to invite my fellow MPs to support in the voting day all the draft laws that are on the agenda today, which I will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69550	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenko Kostadinov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69551	I would like to thank the chairman, respected Minister Mihalovic, the honourable fellow MPs. Today, on the agenda, we have very important laws in the area of construction, so from the building ministry's portfolio in whose jurisdiction are infrastructure projects that are vital to our country. First, I would like to welcome Minister Mihajlovic on behalf of both the citizens of Bosilegrad municipality, because she is one of the few high-ranking officials who visited a municipality like ours and to hear the problems its inhabitants face. Also, I want to give all the thanks to the work of the Department of Construction, whose head is one woman who is manly with great problems and challenges. Thanks to the work of the construction ministry, the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy and the tenacity of President Aleksandar Vukic, southern Serbia has won the highway on which it has been waiting for nearly 40 years, which many have previously built, but no one has managed to build it, until this ministry and this government have managed to deal with all the problems and work has ended. So now my Bosilegrad municipality, although it is not directly on the highway route, is closer to Nis and Belgrade, which is now being reached both easier and faster. I would like to note that during the construction of the highway, there has been a failure to set routes to places where it turns off the highway to Bosilegrad, but a request has been launched by the citizens' initiative to the relevant institutions, which has been resolved positively and the question is the day when the routes will be set. Now, after luck from the highway, on the road to Bosilegrad, we have a share over the Vlasin region of 70 km and that is one of the biggest problems on the way to our Bosilegrad municipality. Given the objective circumstances, analysis and possibilities, I will briefly present to you a proposal for an initiative to launch the Corridor Vlasin project that would solve many problems and raise the entire region of that part of Serbia. The Corridor Vlasina project is an infrastructure project for the construction of a traffic station that will connect two states, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria, i.e. Corridor A1, Corridor 10South in the Republic of Serbia and Corridor A3, the Struma Corridor in the Republic of Bulgaria with the shortest distance. The beginning of Corridor Vlasina is on Corridor A1, so, Corridor 10 South at a place called Ramadan, where the future loop that is in the design phase is envisaged. Further, the route of Corridor Vlasina is heading towards the town of Surdulica and passing by the city by the bypass. From the town of Surdulica, the route leads towards Vlasinska visorna, which has a high rise and provides for a third traffic track for heavy cargo vehicles and difficult conditions in the winter period. A tunnel for passage through the Vlasin Highlands for the reduction of the total route of the traffic of Corridor Vlasin and the conservation of the environment on Lake Vlasin. Further, the route of Corridor Vlasina is heading towards the city of Bosilegrad on the existing route and across the Lissin Lake crossings of the reinforced concrete bridge. Trasa Coridor Vlasina goes across the city of Bosilegrad, along the road to the border crossing of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the border crossing of the Oltomans on the side of the Republic of Bulgaria, the course of the Corridor retains the existing route, the existing road to the town of Cestendil, which crosses the built bypass and goes towards Corridor A1, Corridor Strum, from Boboshevo, where there is a built Petlja. The length of this route presented between Corridor A1 in the Republic of Serbia and Corridor A3 in the Republic of Bulgaria is 120km, the shortest route between these two corridors. It connects three municipalities in the Republic of Serbia -- the municipality of Vladicin han, Surdulica and Bosilegrad and three municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria -- Custendil, Dupnica and Blagoevgrad. The Vlasina Corridor would fully open this area for the smooth passage of people, goods and capital, not only between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria, but also other countries in the region and countries of Western Europe and the Middle East, given the fact that this route of Corridor Vlasina was on the Roman path, and has been neglected for decades in the previous period. We want this area to finally experience prosperity, because it has huge resources and potential in natural wealth and the environment. We want the Roman proverb "via vita" - the path is life, life and in this space, for the benefit of all citizens in this area. Given the accelerated migration from the area, the construction of this traffic facility would create chances for the lives and work of people both on the Serbian and Bulgarian sides, as the border is not guarded by the military or the police, as well as by people living on both sides of the border. Realisation of the project Corridor Vlasina is realistic, given the fact that all projects in the field of transport infrastructure of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure run by the respected Minister Zorana Mihajlović are realised by established dynamics and by the highest quality standards. In voting day, I will support all the laws we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69552	The word has a minister, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69553	Dear Nevenka, thank you for the proposal for Vlasina's Corridor, since now is the time when the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia is changing, and he would have to predict it, please give us all of this you have now said through one initiative, as soon as possible, to see now as we change the spatial plan to put it into a spatial plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69554	The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69555	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, distinguished citizens, somewhere at the end of the day, it is necessary that I refer to the course of today's session, which has, on several occasions, jumped out of the agenda themes. I truly do not know any good reason why individuals would constantly attack some of the representatives of the government, the presidency and, of course, MPs of the ruling coalition. Maybe that's why these standup comedians think they're working on their marketing, and that's how they race to be as brutal as possible. But somewhere lately, it's not just about the napkins of insult, assault, false fiction anymore, it's about calling for murder. It is amazing that in the lack of political ideas the Alliance for Serbia is constantly colored with its own complexes. Is it normal for someone who has no political idea, and in the alliance, the alliance involves the community of several actors, they should have the same opinions, the same direction of action, and they absolutely don't. Such an alliance exists in Serbia. But they can't agree on one basic thing -- whether to boycott or not to boycott the election. However, the 3% of census charity seems tempting to them. And then, when they finish that one round of debate, then reincarnated some of the leftovers of sociologists calling again for the murder of the president of the state. Is that normal? Please, we in the O.R. have a few good doctors, actually more good doctors, who can diagnose these gentlemen. I suggest that we organise one human action, so that all factors and all cases of the Alliance for Serbia are diagnosed, so that people know if they are sick, so that the disease doesn't wave. Given that we are already at the end of the working day, I would not want to miss the time to talk about positive things, because exactly what they want is that we are not talking about the realization of all our projects and I have to tell you that everything that we have adopted in the previous period, everything the government has talked about, what the local self-governments have done, is that today we have the highway "Milos the Great", that we have "Issilon the Leg" from Subotica, that we have Corridor 10, that we will do the Moravian Corridor and, of course, what is somewhere near the heart and what is important for the vitality of Vojvodina, mid-Banat, is the highway of Belgrade-Zrenjanin-Novi Sad. That highway will have 12 loops, three bridges and one overpass. It is a 600m-euro project. Someone couldn't have imagined he could provide those funds. They didn't want to think, they couldn't, and they didn't know what to plan and how to rebuild Serbia. My Grains welcome this. It's very important to us, not only for individuals, but for entrepreneurs, so that they can distribute their products on the market as efficiently as possible. What I have to tell you, you were at the beginning of the tour of the city itself, yesterday was a working week in Zrenjanin and the construction of the bridge was being set up, so it's a big project that means that the traffic itself is being removed from the city center. It is a project financed by the government of the Republic of Serbia worth 350m dinars without VAT. I'm really glad the Zrenjanin will be visible. We want it to be an industrial center, like it used to be and what's primary is that people don't ask each other -- where you work and if you work, but -- for what pay, how long, do you want to change jobs? And we're close to that situation. Thank you for everything you have done with your activities in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thank you for not being neglected and this is definitely a large number of reasons why I will support the draft laws that are on the agenda. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69556	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69557	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government with associates, honourable fellow MPs, at the end of this hard day and many speakers before me, it is hard not to repeat themselves. But I want to say it's a great pleasure to be able to talk today about these laws and this subject, because there's a lot to be said. The government of the Republic of Serbia has set as one of its priorities the establishment of a high-quality and efficient railway system, which will be one of the main bases for increased economic activities and further development of the Republic of Serbia. Back in the '60s and '70s, the 20th century was a demonstration of the railroad, as untrustworthy and insecure, as well as invaluable. That is why we have two decisions before us - on taking goods in the general use of part of the railway infrastructure, a total length of 1.030.7 km. The current total length of the railway on Serbia's territory, including KIM, is 3.724 km. It is important to mention and remind the citizens of Serbia what has been done since the SNS was in power, from 2013 to 2018. The reconstruction, reconstruction, construction of the railway, 561km, construction of cells worth 530.5m euros, which increased the speed on the remounted shares from 30 to 50km per hour to 80 to 120km per hour. Ten multi-system locomotives have been delivered, while 16 more multi-system locomotives are expected to be delivered by the end of this month. The reconstruction of 12 tunnels, worth 3.9m euros, was also carried out. Also, road crossings have been arranged, with a total value of one point and a half million euros. Modernisation of the road crossings, which began in 2018, in the meantime, at 22 road crossings of the ramp; at 44 road crossings video surveillance was set, 35 was set lighting, at 12 road crossings of the vibro track, and at five crossings the solar markers were placed on the road. Among these crossings are automated crossings in the municipality of Mladenovac, in the village of Drapshin, the village of Bataševo and the village of Rabovac. There have been fatal accidents here before. Since the ramps were made, there have been no accidents in traffic and fellow citizens living in parts of the city and crossing the railroad daily feel more satisfied, safer, for their children and themselves. It has been reconstructed, with about 100 cell buildings worth 2.3m euros arranged. Among these cell buildings is the train station building in Mladenov, which was completely destroyed, and now is the city's decoration. Especially the importance of this, because this is the oldest building in town. Citizens respond extremely positively to this change. Also, the "White Train" worked, and in the next period, we hope that it will be possible to reach the Vukov Memorial station from Mladenovac station. That's not the case so far, but only to the station Prokop, which is complicated for passengers and extends the way to work or to college. Also, there are too many stations, a total of nine, from Mladenvec to Belgrade, and it does not allow the train's speed to develop on the already reconstructed track in this part. There is no way that the length of the journey due to the by-cells can be longer than bus traffic, because it is the only way we can achieve the effect of introducing this line. When Beovoz works in full shares, I hope that it will align and increase the number of departures as the number of passengers grows by rail. Serbia is rapidly changing and thanks to the record GDP growth in the past year and the largest amount of investment in the region and thanks to the surplus in the state register. It works and builds, not only railway infrastructures, but also clinical centres, hospitals, schools, apartments. I would also like to comment on the draft law amending the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of security forces, aimed at increasing the maximum flooring of buildings built under this project from six to eight floors. This year, a tender is being held for another 8,000 apartments for members of security. Construction is an indication that the state appreciates its members of the security forces, members of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, then for the execution of criminal sanctions and takes care not only of them and their living and working conditions, but also of families. We have already made a decision that changes the law, which implies the possibility of buying an apartment under more favourable conditions for fighters, members of the household and disabled. These are really big projects that employ domestic economy and also provide for the existence of people who are very important to the country. This shows that the state of Serbia is establishing a system that takes care of security forces, from their education, employment, treatment. There is much more to be said, however, I have singled out only these two laws that I think may have been least talked about. Otherwise, on Vote Day, of course, I will support all the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69558	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69559	Dear Chairman, Minister of Associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will talk today about amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. The Law on Planning and Construction regulates the conditions and the way in which space is arranged, the planning and use of building land and the construction of buildings, as well as the supervision of the application of the provisions of this law and inspection supervision and other issues of importance for the regulation of space, planning and use of building land and for the construction of buildings. Serbia has become a construction site, all over its territory. Of the 184 seats, Serbia today is the ninth to issue construction permits. In 2012, there were 500 sites in all of Serbia, today there are 55,000. To date, 350km of highways have been built and about 350km of railway tracks have been reconstructed. In 2020, the construction of four new highways with a new 500km continue, the work on the completion of Corridor 11 and by the end of the year the construction of a road of peace towards BiH, the road from Ruma to Sapac, the construction of the Moravian Corridor, which has great importance in finding a solution to Morava's flow, which in previous years flooded fertile land and damaged the citizens themselves. Since I live in Resnik, which is the municipality of Rakovica, every day coming to the Assembly I pass by the construction of a bypass which the vessels of the housewives in connecting the highway E-70 with the Corridor 10. Thanks to stable finance and budget, the Serbian government headed by the Ministry of Construction and our President Alexander Vukic, who has invested so much energy in this work, I can tell you that the bypass is progressing daily and I don't know exactly the dynamics, but I only see that it is working daily, there are workers and Saturdays and Sundays, and you can see how the works are progressing. The adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction would solve the problems that have arisen in practice, which relate to the issue of personal licences and the provision of work to foreigners. This law reduces the number of procedures for getting to the license. This law redefines certain standards, all in order to further improve and improve and build up in the Republic of Serbia, further progress on the World Bank's list of business conditions. The proposal also goes in the direction of national legislation, i.e. regulations to be harmonised with the EU. The proposed solutions will have a direct effect on investors, companies, entrepreneurs, natural persons, architects, responsible and spatial planners, responsible contractors, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the state authorities of the AP. By harmonising this proposal with EU rules, problems in the smooth transport of goods and services, some of the EU's main postulates, will be avoided. Given the experience of the countries of the region, quality legal and institutional arrangements of the system, planning and construction have proved to be one of the strategic definitions, planning and building of buildings and key assumptions of the development of the construction of a country and protecting the interests of its citizens. I call on my colleagues to accept the proposed laws in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69560	Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if the President, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69561	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister with Associates, I will try to be shorter than I intended to say in this time that remains for our parliamentary group, that is, the time of the authorised representative of the group. Somehow for all four years, we have followed the end of the Corridor here in Parliament, the Milos Veliki highway, on a section that crosses the territory of the township of Obrenovac, talked, agreed, followed the performance of these works, and I simply must say that coordination with the Ministry, but also good work of local self-government in preparing its work has enabled what is agreed and respected. Of course, of how much we all respect given terms, we respect the guarantees given both by written and oral means by the citizens of Serbia, and in this situation, the citizens of Obrenovac meant a lot. In fact, you yourself witnessed, probably in other areas, what had to be endured by the citizens of Obrenovac, i.e. his work in Piromana, Velika Polje, Beli Polje and Mislođin, while access routes were used through these villages to build the highway. What is important, it was important that what you said here in the Assembly, and what is previous and local self-government providing conditions for such a thing, because it recorded the positions and the condition of the roads of the locals, before the construction of the highway started, to respect what we talked about here in parliament, and that is that before August of the month when the share of Obrenovac to Preljina was released, practically in the whole of that move, all the roads were repaired, completely fixed, as it was said. Of course, it meant a lot as a guarantee that the highway would be completed and released to St. Nicholas by practically 18 December, days before St. Nicholas, and it made it easier in some way to endure that part of the suffocation that continued in that part of the Corridor. Indeed, every dinar that has been spent is controlled, supervised and it is very, very good and there is one segment left that we haven't said by the end of when we're going to end up, we've tied up to complete the highway to Surcin, which is practically, now necessary to reconstruct the road from Obrenovac to Ub, which is also quite used to perform the works on the Corridor highway itself. What's good at this point is that a local self-government initiative was accepted by the ministry, which is that the toll on the part of Obrenovac towards Belgrade is not only charged because of the citizens of Obrenovac but because it has reduced the interest of those who drive heavy trucks to get off the highway and use roads that are already overloaded. Apparently in 2010, when the reconstruction preparations were made, in 2011, it was reconstructed, which was obviously not well done, we were brought up by the situation that we now have to think again about that path being the last time to get in, and it is said when it can be reconstructed. The fact is that in 2018, after my application and indeed extremely rapid intervention, and as the ministry's extraordinary inspections and supervision say, there was a certain resolution done that way, but what I have to say is, in general, what is being done when all these laws are at stake and to indicate that there is still a need to work on it, which is a matter of supervision. I think that during that recovery, surveillance failed, and if someone went out on the ground today and looked at how it appeared today, after two years of not being full, it would have been concluded that someone had been mumbling again and waiting for a moment for the complete path to be reconstructed. I think that's what's not good, and I think that's what we really need to keep working on. All that has been done by amending many laws for these four years, when it comes to licensing and supervision, etc. is indeed something that results, but this part, it seems to me, in this place, when it comes to surveillance, has failed and that those funds that were then invested in the recovery, at least I don't think they gave the expected results. For this reason I'm practically asking you now on behalf of the citizens and the Obrenovac, and Ub and the whole move, and I just hope you have at least an approximate answer if we could expect what was going to be remedied? In any case, thinking about looking for a way to destimulate the use of regional roads, especially where there's a highway from what we say are overloaded bathtubs that are destroying the road network, but endangering traffic safety is taking place through highways. That I think is really another thing that deserves serious attention, deserves extra invested energy, and that's something that needs to be solved as soon as possible, because that's going to solve a lot. Of course, it should not in particular be pointed out that the parliamentary club Movement of Socialists of the People's Peasants Party, the United Peasants' Party, will support all these proposed changes in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-27-0.u69562	Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, pursuant to Article 98(4). I hereby conclude the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 13 of the agenda. We'd be done with this. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 1840 hours.]]
