ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that at this time 159 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Hadzhi Milorad Stosic, Dragan M. Markovic, Aleksandar Jovanovic, Đuro Peric, Dr Vesna Ivković and Justina Pupin Kosćal. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure and extremely for the week, i.e. the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. To be more specific, because the regular session ends Tuesday at midnight, so we'd get there to adopt everything we had to go today. It's simple because of the procedure. You have been delivered the minutes of the Fourth and Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, held on 24, 25 and 26 November. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total - 162, for – 158, did not vote – four. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fourth session of the Second Regular Session by majority vote. I am voting on the minutes of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, held on 1 and 2 December. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -163, for – 159, did not vote – four. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fifth session of the Second Regular Session by majority vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the assembly of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal to merge the debate. A group of 15 MPs proposed putting on the agenda following an emergency procedure – a proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December. It is indicated, otherwise, in terms of agenda as point 5. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -163, for – 160, against – one, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Ana Karadzic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on Implementation and Security, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, on 16 November. Does Anna Karadzic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total - 163, for – three, no vote – 160. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The People's MP Bojan Torbica is, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, on 16 November. MP Bojan Bagica, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2186	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, from 1 January 2010 to the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, mistrials have been introduced and, from that day on, judges of criminal courts have suffered discrimination of their own, in that they have been normably placed in a position compared to their fellow judges of other courts, and the same degree of jurisdiction. The variety of cases and the number of regulations to be applied cannot be compared to any other matter in other courts, which gives them special weight. Since they use more than 270 laws and about 800 regulations in their work, they require special skills and knowledge from judges in criminal courts. The fact that in the matter of expertise and ability to perform a judicial function which, when elected to a judicial office, must be met is identical with the conditions that other judges must fulfil, which tells us that we give judges the status of judges with all obligations, but not with all rights. Except for the earnings of the criminal judges, all other categories of persons employed in criminal courts have the same method of calculating earnings with their colleagues working in other courts. The Law on Judges, otherwise, stipulates that the judge has the right to pay in accordance with the dignity of the judge's office and his responsibility, and I particularly point to a member of the law which states that the salary of the judge means guaranteeing his independence and the safety of his family. Besides this, it's completely absurd that judges have fewer salaries than other judges, but also judges' assistants in other courts, and I think we all agree that there should be no such kind of discrimination in the judiciary. The judges of the criminal courts are indeed not a burden of this budget and, unlike some others, they are threefold justifying their wages. That is why we have tabled this motion to amend the law, in order once and for all to fulfill the decade of injustice against judges in criminal courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2187	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: a total of 163, for - four, did not vote 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. People's MP George Komlensky has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2188	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, close to 20 years, or slightly more than 20 years have passed since the end of a criminal, criminal NATO aggression which, for its sole purpose, had killed our innocent children, our civilians, our officers, our soldiers and the desire to conquer Serbia and put it under the full protectorate. A people who don't learn in their history of reason, they say, history will repeat to them as long as they don't come to their senses. For many years we have been witnesses to disputed Serbian victims in Jasenovac, a Serb victim in the First World War, a Serb victim in World War II, and it is difficult for us to correct it, but we must not allow ourselves to let generations behind us say that we did not do what was our duty, and I consider it to be the duty of the Republic of Serbia, and primarily this home to determine the exact, nominal number of all killed and wounded civilians, members of the MUP and the military who died during NATO's criminal and criminal aggression in the 1999 pact. So once and for all, we're going to put an end to possible calculations around the number and prevent anyone from arguing that we were killed in 1999, that our children were killed, that our civilians were killed, that Serbia was destroyed. Dear colleagues, I invite you to support this initiative, because I believe this is a debt to the victims of the 1999 bombing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2189	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: a total of 164, for -13, 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 170. The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Media Services, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cinematographic Co-production between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on the Elimination of Double Taxation in relation to income tax and the Prevention of Tax Evasion and Avoidance and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Loan and Construction of the E80 Nis – Merdare, Nis-Pločnik, Phase 1, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic doesn't want a word. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 164, for – 160, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposal for the agenda for the session of the emergency procedure, the proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda to the vote, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 164, for – 160, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the 9th session of the Second Regular Session in 2020, in general. Dn n e d d: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cinematographic Co-production between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of France, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on the Elimination of Double Taxation against Income Taxes and the Prevention of Tax Evasion and Avoidances, submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Loan (Building the Highway E-80 Nis – Merdare, Share Nis – Pločnik, Phase 1) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for the Finalisation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020, which submitted the Group of 15 National MPs. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure have been invited to attend the meetings of Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, Slavica Savičić and Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Milan Rakić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Dr Dragan Demirovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Olga Gekić, V.d. Assistant Minister of Culture and Information Igor Jovicic, V.D. Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Information Ana Tripovic, Director of the Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Dejan Dabetić, Senior Advisor and Head of the Group at the Ministry of Finance, Dejan Stojanovic, Head of the Group for Standard Affairs at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Stanko Blagojevic of the Office of Culture and Information Minister and Emma Dragulj and DraganaDejanovic , independent advisers at the Ministry ofFinance. I'd like to welcome the representatives of the government. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and that the time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), I am opening my Rules of Procedure a common principle and uniform search on the first four points of the agenda. When does the proposing's representative want a thing? Here you are, President Mayo, now Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2190	Thank you, Mr. President Ivica Dacic. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, I will indeed try very briefly to explain these two draft laws to you, or to supplement the Law on Public Media Services and the Agreement on Co-operation in the Film Area in collaboration with the French Republic, and given that yesterday you have warned one of your actors that this is not the eighth session, right, the Central Committee, and that we have been talking too long. I just want to point out that I still...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2191	It's not the eighth session, it's the eighth congress.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2192	The eighth Congress, yes. That's what you know better, because maybe you're somehow a legal follower of them who took part in that eighth session.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2193	We communists are here.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2194	I was an ordinary citizen, so that's all I was following. So, let's get back to the subject. As far as I can tell, first of all, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Media Services. We all know the importance of public media services for our country, and they really play a role and preserve and improve the democratic values of our country. We have defined that the work and position of public media services is regulated, as you know, by a special law and according to the European regulatory framework, which, of course, also states in the reasoning of the laws you have received. The Law on Public Media Services provided that the Republic of Serbia provides for a stable and sufficient financing of the basic activities of public media services and the law provides for public media services to be financed from budgets, commercial revenues and other revenues. The reason for the adoption of a law supplementing the Public Media Services Act is certainly to provide sufficient resources for the public media service to work until 31 December of next year, so as to enable them to carry out their work uninterruptedly. The amount of tax you adopted of 299 dinars will be charged from 1 January 2021. It certainly is not enough for the regular work of both media public services, both RTS and RTS. Given that RTS collects a tax on the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, we have determined that additional income, the increase of the RTS fee will be quite enough to carry out the basic work. As far as the public media service of RTV is concerned, it generates exclusively revenue from the payment of a fee on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and plus a reduction of 3%, which is paid to the public media house of RTS, and we believe that this is not enough to carry out the basic activity. For the above reasons in the 2021 budget, we planned for RTV, additional funding of 900 million dinars. This is the essence of the brief addition of the law that we have proposed to you, which is, in practice, the essence of the amendment of one member. This second law is the proposal for a law on confirmation, namely ratification of a co-operation agreement in the area of cinematography between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of France. We all know the importance of co-operation, whether total, or bilateral co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the French Republic. One of the priorities that both countries insist on is certainly co-operation in the field of culture, especially in the area of cinematography. First, the importance, which French culture has in the world and the attention that the state of France itself gives to the film as a medium, gives meaning to the whole of this Agreement. I want to tell you that the Minister of Culture of the Republic, one of the first ministers to call after my election as Minister of Culture and Information, congratulated on this election and immediately expressed her desire to improve our co-operation in the field of culture, and of course, she was interested in the ratification of this important agreement, which was signed during the official state visit of President Makrona Republika Srpska. The previous agreement we had in this area was the Agreement of 27 October 1975, and therefore it had to come to the signing of a new agreement that respected significant changes, both in the fields of our legislation and in general in the terminology of the film dictionaries and the way the two states work. So it's consistent with the development of technology in this area. This is one of the five bilateral agreements that we have in the area of cinema, so, with Austria, Italy, Canada, Germany, and hopefully after France, we'll be able to conclude this kind of agreement with the Russian Federation, because we have certain announcements. The agreement, you've also seen in reason, I'm convinced, at least those who will speak in the field of culture today and discuss these two laws. The concept of what cinematography is is defined, what is co-production exactly marks the participation of a partner, who has ownership of a film that will thus be done, the way we use films, how we will form mixed commissions and some other technical but important details for the ratification of this Agreement, but also for the subsequent implementation. This should represent a new driving force for the development of co-operation between our two countries. Do you need me to tell you all the newspapers this Agreement provides? I am convinced that no, because in the light of the bill's proposal, this should be explained in detail, perhaps just some indications, therefore, harmonised in the area of legislation, we define the concept of cinematographic work, production, the concept of co-producers. In the first agreement, back in 1975, it was limited only to the notion of film, and our and their national bodies were changed. On our part, it is the Serbian Film Centre, now the second, National Film Centre and moving images. Let me tell you right now that one of my plans is for the Republic of Serbia to get the National Centre for Film and Movement Pictures in the coming period. I hope that we will have such a proposal by the end of the term of office of this government, that we are all here to discuss the importance of forming a National Film Centre in the Republic of Serbia. It has been expanded, which could all be a member of art and technical staff, given that it is co-production by two states of Serbia and France. France is a member of the EU, so that it is extended to others who would participate in the construction of films without being just actors, as defined in 1975, so that other EU members, or their citizens, can participate. The share of co-producers, 20% and 80% has changed. I told you that it was specifically defined what a mixed commission should look like. This time in this Agreement, it is predicted that both countries are co-owners of this kind of film work, and here it is used a little bit, in my opinion, a rogue name, a co-owner, I think that the Serbian language is easier to correspond with the word co-owner. I stress that Serbia has indeed been in the context of its cultural policy for several years to attract as many foreign investments in the area of cinematography as possible. It prepares right at the Ministry of Culture and Informing Regulations on Encouragement of Investors to make films in our country, it stands behind our film house and producers as well as for the parties alike. This regulation, as well as in those earlier ones, ensures that these funds are non-refundable. So, this is not within this Agreement, but I want to point out to you how important it is for the Republic of Serbia to develop its national policy in the field of cinematography and how economical it is for us to attract as many investors as possible in this extremely important and cultural but also in the economic branch, we return 25% of the qualified costs for making films in our country, and for those who have a serious budget, it is about five million euros, we return as much as 30% of the qualified costs. This would be briefly the most important items provided for in this agreement on co-operation between France and the Republic of Serbia in the area of cinematography. If you have any questions, I'm at your disposal. I just want to say, since stronger and more meaningful co-operation has started between our two countries in the cinema area, about 10 co-production films have been recorded, and by ratifying this agreement we are really raising this to an extremely more content and higher level, which is also mentioned only by the presence of two presidents of the state when this agreement is signed, Mr. McCron and Alexander Vukic. In any case, we will be much more visible to our quality in the film industry on the international stage when this agreement comes to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2195	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2196	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, the honourable MPs, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are now before you the draft laws on the validation of the agreement signed by the Government of Serbia. The first is the bill to confirm the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on the elimination of double taxation in relation to income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance. The conclusion of the contract is a significant contribution to the improvement of bilateral, economic and financial co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Japan, as it removes the problem of double taxation of natural and legal persons, residents of both states. The contract is a legal framework and a prerequisite for investing Japanese investors in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. creating conditions for their participation in the privatisation process, as well as for the use of appropriate financial instruments to promote higher forms of bilateral economic co-operation. Next on the agenda is the draft law confirming the Loan Treaty, the construction of the E-80 Nis-Medara highway, the Nis-Pločnik section, phase 1) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The project is the first phase of the phase of the roadway improvement of 77 km between Nis and the Merdara administrative crossing and represents a major missing link on route seven. The project is an important part of route seven, as links between route six and corridor Nis-Bulgarian border, linking Nis with Albania and the Adriatic and the Ionian Sea and their ports. Building this road route will shorten travel time and allow for greater traffic security, especially for transport, to provide better road connections with Albania and Bulgaria, Serbia's integration into the region's traffic system and throughout Europe. Dear MPs, you are facing agreements today that allow us to implement large projects in different sectors. I am sure that we will have a constructive debate and I hope that in the voting day you will support the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2197	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want a word? There have been reports from the board, but before I give you my word, to plan our activities, we have essentially agreed, since we had to wait to see if there were any amendments, no amendments, to international agreements, and it can't be, but there are no amendments, so you know you're planning activities. We will today complete a joint principle and unique search on these four points of the agenda. Tomorrow, we will discuss a proposal from the MPs regarding the European Commission's report throughout the day, and on Tuesday we will continue the debate if we leave it for Tuesday, of course, before that we have parliamentary issues and after that vote, with the goal of ending it in the afternoon on Tuesday. This concludes our regular session. We've had nine regular sessions and two special sessions and I think we've fulfilled our plan and cleared everything up. In a procedural sense, there is no act waiting for us to put it on the agenda, and it has obtained conditions for the agenda, except for these several acts proposed by MPs, which are to be declared by the ministry and the government. This is what I said about planning our activities, and we usually make arrangements on our colleges, and this is all expected, as we agreed. The word is by Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2198	Thank you, National Assembly President, Mr. Dacic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we discussed on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives the proposals that will be put before us today in plenary and forwarded them to the feast, because we believe they are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I believe you expected me as a National MP from Nis first to say something about a proposal relating to the construction of the Nis-Medara highway. I will immediately tell you that I will be happy to support all the proposals that Nis will make for an even bigger, real regional centre, which it already is, the regional centre of that part of Serbia, especially the proposals relating to the road infrastructure, which will connect Nis with other municipalities and cities from Serbia, but also beyond, in this case, to allow exit to the port of Durres on the Adriatic Sea. First of all, I'm talking about the inhabitants of Nisavsky, Pirotski and Toplička County, and I remind you that it's about half a million people. So it's a Nis-Pločnik route, 33km long, whose construction takes hundreds of millions of euros. In early December of this year, President Aleksandra Vucic spoke with the President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, including infrastructure projects and economic measures to be implemented in the Republic of Serbia, a similar package of measures Serbia has prepared to help businesses and citizens, and in response to the crisis caused by the coronary virus. As far as I know, the European Bank has already participated in the construction of this so-called so-called bank. The peace highway seems to me with more than 80m euros. The proposal that lies before us today is actually about the willingness to further develop regional integration with the goal of connecting and human resources and faster flow of goods, etc. which, of course, will affect the better position of small and medium-sized enterprises, young entrepreneurs and in general the overall development of economy, economy and other areas not only in these three our districts, but also in all of Serbia. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Gojkovic, I would like to say that I am pleased that today we have proposals from the Ministry of Culture and Information, which, in my opinion, have not been in the past term, I would say, enough. Culture will, unfortunately, also be an area that will suffer the effects of the virus's corona and the Serbian government will also have to bring appropriate measures in this area. What I have to say at this point is that the wages in cultural institutions remain the same, that the projects are being initiated and that the independent artists are being given financial assistance. On the other hand, I would like to say that it is very important to support in the sense that institutions continue to work on the scale in which it is possible and in line with the measures due to the coronal of the virus. I would also point out that the next year's budget for culture has been increased. So it's a complex area, which struggles with the consequences of the crown. On the one hand, we must preserve our cultural heritage, but, on the other hand, we must prepare ourselves for some modern flows to digitise cultural content, etc. For all I have stated, I call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People to support these proposals, which are of great quality, in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2199	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic. She is the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2200	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, we had the opportunity on the board yesterday to hear, on the basis of a proposal for today's agenda, an explanation for contracts relating to the removal of double taxation when it comes to Serbia and Japan and an agreement relating to the first stage of building the highway of E-80 Belgrade – Merdare and that share is from Nis to Pločnik. When we talk about this agreement on removing the conditions for double taxation between Serbia and Japan, then we should say that we had opportunities to talk about the same issue of Serbia and Hong Kong last week and apparently that list of countries, where double taxation is removed, is expanding. As a state, we have had the opportunity to hear yesterday on the Committee, we have signed 26 agreements with EU member states, only Portugal remains, so we will unite all EU members for this type of agreement, and in January we will unite all the countries that apply to the countries of the East in full. We have signed with both China and Hong Kong, now and with Japan and they are called the "tiger" countries because their economy always goes with high growth rates and it is important for us to open up the possibility of foreign direct investment from this part of the world. What we had the opportunity to hear on the Committee is that Tiger Tyres opened its production capacities precisely with the knowledge that such an agreement exists. The proposal is the Government and the Assembly will adopt for the reason that it simply facilitates their existence here and what these costs, which would possibly have our businessmen there and they here, in some ways we are removing as a kind of obstacle. When we talk about an agreement relating to the construction of the Nis-Pločnik section, then it should be said that one of the plans foreseen by the 2021 budget, when it comes to road infrastructure, is this part of the agreement and the project that we are talking about today because for the first time now we will have a budget of 330 billion dinars for next year, where it is an integral part of that budget, when it comes to building road infrastructure, this very project. It must be said that over 40 laws were passed in this year in the Assembly relating to the area of finance and covering these agreements, which give us the task of the next year of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, together with the relevant ministries and public enterprises, such as the Serbian Corridors, which will implement these projects, gives us the chance to actually achieve these high growth rates of 6%, which in fact create opportunities to increase wages and pensions, increase standards and preserve all business activities with which we want to progress as a state. It is important to say that the resources that are being withdrawn, a certain percentage, from Serbia's budget, 50% and a donation of 40.6m euros from the EU. So I call on all MPs to support these drafts of law and agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2201	Thank you. We are now moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2202	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about four laws from different areas of social life, from the field of information, from cinematography and film production, from the field of fiscal policy and infrastructure. Right at the beginning, let me say that the JS parliamentary group will support all four of these laws in the voting day. The first on the agenda is certainly the law supplementing the Public Media Service Act, which is added by Article 62a, which defines the partial budget financing of one of the public media services in Serbia, specifically the Vojvodina Radio-Television. Since television is certainly the most important medium in the world today, public services are always inciting debate and controversy, and this is not only Serbia's exclusiveness, but the debate and controversy on public media services are leading everywhere, and certainly from the point of view of theory and practice the most intriguing issue is the issue of funding public media services. Why? Because, according to the definition of public services, their imperative is not and cannot be to obtain and obtain the maximum profit, but must be a quality programme content, which covers the widest range of needs and interests of citizens in a society. Of course, one media service by definition must cover the entire country's territory, it must be objective, it must cover all groups and all interests of society and, importantly, be financially and politically independent. Hence, the question of funding is one of the many issues that we are talking about today, among other things, that public services have a constant, continuous funding to carry out their work uninterruptedly. What's important here is that public service is a public good, like all other natural goods in the country, and we should treat it that way. As important as public service is, it is not a topic, the question of information only and this information program, enough to go to the RTS Archives and see how much wealth that our house has and how much testimony and videos and data we have from the important periods of our past. I say, the financing controversy is constantly being run, not just by us, but everywhere in the world for reasons that ideal, theoretically, way of funding public service would be through voluntary contributions and so on. the isolation of the safe citizens who have reached consensus on the matter. Of course, reality is quite different and we have solved the issue of public service financing in an adequate and optimal way. Of course there are different models in the world. We have the BBC as the oldest public media service, which in 1926, when the UK bought private shares of that house, became a public media service and financed exclusively from taxis and possibly from the sale of its programme. We have listen to a Spanish public service that is not financed at all from taxis but from other sources of income, and we have a German public media service that is half half, dual financing, or partly financed from taxis, and is partly financed from its economic programs. It is similar in France and Italy, with public services being less financed from taxes in France and Italy, and mostly from commercial programmes. As for our media services and the controversy that is taking place in society about them, above all, in the part of the information program, we all have smaller or larger objections to RTS work. RTS, of course, is not ideal as a public service. Not ideal, not even BBC. RTS, you know, we all have as much as we do in football, we all know the best team, we know to put together a better team than a football selector, so it's in the editorial policy of a public media service, we all have smaller or bigger objections, we'd all better project ourselves through media content of a public service, which is also natural and human, but on the other hand, maybe that argument is somewhere for the independence of a public service than any branch of government. Well, here, we had a remark last night. Last night, the transfer of this congregation was interrupted for the volleyball game, and we were all a little bit snooze in the congregation benches. Of course sport is important, and of course we don't find it bad to have sports events broadcasts on RTS, but we just thought that the topics we talked about yesterday were also important. But I'm saying, all of this and that we're all in society a little bit dissatisfied with having objections to RTS, maybe it's also talking about him having, like, an independent and independent editorial policy. What may be a fundamental issue with public media services is the question of truthfulness, objectivity and trust, but still there we can reason what is true. What I think is true might be someone else's vision. What I think is objective reporting might be someone thinking differently. What may be the easiest to measure, because these things are hard to measure, is trust, and trust is measured by ratings, and today we can measure ratings and yesterday Dragan Markovic Palma showed the Sher Assembly and the transfer of congregation meetings. I've got the same app and what's happening anyway is that at 19.30 hours, the biggest viewer of the journal 2 RTS. With respect to all other information shows, and I think that's one proof that the people want us to have a public service. Of course, you need it, the public service should constantly perfect itself to make yourself better, but simply the need for the existence of a public service is not disputed and we in the JS will support this law precisely because this law provides for funding, in part the budget financing of one of the public services, and simply in the voting day we will vote for this law. Of course, even when it comes to public service, I just say, public service is not only Dnevnik 1, 2 and 3, public service is also "Lajmet", public service is also a Dnevnik in Hungarian, public service is also a Dnevnik in Romanian language, public service is also regions today, public service is all the regional public service centres of Novi Pazar, Subotica, Nis, Kruševevac etc. Public service has also shown that it is important and necessary during this period of the pandemic of the coronary virus. Namely, he put his third channel and his RTS Planet platform on the use of the Ministry of Education. For example, the school administration in Jagodina, which I have been running for years, recorded 253 teaching units, and so did all the other school administrations. So thousands of teaching units were recorded and students were and are today able to monitor quality and good teaching in specific conditions, in conditions of more force. Of course, she can't even study remotely, or class over TV screens to replace direct teaching, and we don't have that illusion. However, under these emergency circumstances RTS has also shown that public service is needed by every state and our own. I say it one more time, so we're gonna back this bill on Voting Day. The second law is the Law confirming the Cinema Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France. Cinematographic co-operation with France has its long tradition. We have long worked under the 1975 Agreement between France and Yugoslavia. Of course, this agreement has been overcome in both legal and technological terms and that this new agreement, an agreement with a country that is likely to have the best and most developed film production in Europe. In fact, France is a country that has cinematography that took out Luke Beson, Jean Luc Godara, Jean Renoir. After all, France is the country where the film was created, which had the Brothers of the Limiers who invented the film, who made the first films. The first two films are "The entrance of the train to the station" and "The exit of workers from the factory", which are, as interesting as they are today, these two films are the first to be designed on December 28, 1895. So tomorrow, it's exactly 125 years from designing the first films, these are the Limier Brothers movies in Paris. Maybe that's the symbolism of why we should adopt this agreement. Of course, we have something to offer. It's not just French cinematography that's important in Europe. We also have Emir Kusturica, we have Živojin Zika Pavlović, we have Želimir Žilnik and not to list, very many great directors, screenwriters, actors etc. I think that every co-operation in the area of culture between these two countries is good and that these two friendly states should also develop their co-operation and make relations better and closer. As regards the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on the elimination of double taxation and the prevention of ejaculation, i.e. avoidance of tax payments, this type of agreement or contract is always good because it promotes the competitiveness of the firm on the one hand and the other, it encourages and increases investment capacity on the one hand and on the other. Of course, it also deals with preventing tax avoidance and simply that economic co-operation between these two countries will certainly be better and better with this contract. When we talk about the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning the construction of the highway E80 Nis-Medara, i.e. the first part of Nis-Pločnik. It should be said that it is an 85m-euro agreement that will provide funds for the construction of the Nis-Pločnik stock of 32.6km. It is a road that will bring together one of the traffic hubs in our country, it is Nis with Toplica, with an end that really desires even more investment, for even more investors, for even greater economic development, and certainly the construction of a highway that passes through that part of our country will make the region more attractive and for foreign investments, will make it more attractive for better transport of goods and services and passengers and simply for the faster progress of this important part of our country. Of course, this is only a part of the highway that goes from Bulgaria via Serbia, Nis to Merdar still connects Serbia with Albania, the Ionian Sea, and thus we will improve the transport of both goods and services and increase the economic activity of the states on the Balkan Peninsula, and not only us on the Balkan Peninsula, but it is also an important part of that project we have been talking about for the past few years, and this is the project Mini Schengen which is a very good project and which will make the Member States of that project more competitive than other EU countries and will be easier to compete with developed countries of Europe and the world. In that sense, all these four laws are very important, and the good and MPs of the JS will certainly give strong support to all four of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2203	Thank you, Mr. Starcevic. Minister Maja Gojkovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2204	Thank you for your discussion. I really want to support you in everything you've said. I know from my experience as former president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in an extremely long period, which, of course, I want the current president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to have such a mandate, that we are all often irritated by the fact that the transfer of our session is taking place on the second channel of RTS, but on the other hand, we need to understand that RTS has three channels and an extremely content programme and that we have certain agreements for the transfer of important sports competitions, and this has always been in conflict with the importance of our meetings and with the importance of everything that is being discussed here, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I think is one of the most important political institutions in the country, because here the representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been elected in the elections. But we need to understand that, and when it is proposed to form a special channel for assembly sessions, we should not take it as our political tragedy, but as a way to fight that we have a channel on which to monitor an exclusive session, of course including a committee meeting, which is sometimes much more lively than these discussions here, and also why not an informative political programme that will look at the currentities of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am not the editor of any RTS programme, nor do I want to influence them, nor you, but I need to think in the future about how the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has its own special channel, which will be satisfied with the MPs, but will be satisfied with the citizens of Serbia who really want to watch our sessions and watch, see ours, that's what's left of the past period, to follow the meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to be informed about everything we do, and not just about things that are kind of more attractive and I see that this sitting too has started- whether it is drinking, not drinking coffee, who eats or doesn't eat, and so some things that actually drags the citizens of Serbia away from the core work of this significant home. Of course, the work and programme of no television in Serbia is ideal, so it is not ideal for the Public Media Service. What I will not blame anyone as a minister of culture and information, but to see this as a single suggestion not only of RTS, RTTV perhaps some other television that we need as a people, as citizens of more content dealing with the culture of the Republic of Serbia. That we do not have a diary, as they call it "Cultural Log" sometime before midnight, so that someone might notice something that is current and important for the culture of the Republic of Serbia, but that we realize that it is extremely important, important as the discussions on some other topics, which fill all the informative content, and that might be the answer to this flood of ham and spine that we have today not only in Serbia, but obviously it is one phenomenon in the whole world. Not that we're going after something to ban, and on the other hand we're not offering anything that would be against spines and hams on programmes with national frequencies and the other. I think that would be the best answer. Now there are many young people here, but there are also those who are my generation and who surely remember that it was once an obligation to show a cartoon before the main information content, i.e. the Dnevnik and children were so grown up, that they were educated and educated that they had a nice content, a fairy tale or a cartoon before they went to sleep. They don't have those obligations today. We had wonderful children's programs sometimes such as "Poleletarac", such as "To the Letter, to the Letter" and many other contents. Today there is and should be, and I expect it, and when it comes to media content that we send them a message that it is also the 21st century to these children if we want to cultivate a new audience, consumers, serious cultural content necessary, because if we don't slowly encourage them, and I'm not saying that culture is the most beautiful thing that can happen to them in life, or that we don't offer them that action – it's nicer with culture the second part, as everyone today has the first and second part, then we don't have to expect anything else but that young generations like spine and ham that are somehow more acceptable, more receptive, easy content that you can consume, because we older ones don't pay attention to what children look at and what they don't look at on television. The tax is 299 dinars, but it cannot be spent on commercial purposes. You know that you're still on tv, so, in part, RTS can't finance itself from this. We're far from other ways of funding like you said whether Spanish or not I know which model to simply make donations. It's a long way from that in Serbia. Maybe we'll encourage them to make more donations and invest more in culture by working on a law on financial incentives, so we'll cut a part of the tax depending on how much someone is willing to invest in culture. Of course, we have some mandatory cultural contents or at least parts of the cultural journals or something before midnight dedicated to culture, then we would know that in the last few years the government of the Republic of Serbia has completed the works and opened several important museums, and for tens of years have grown generations of young people lost to culture because the Museum of Contemporary Art has simply been closed for some 15 years, the National Museum also. Schools couldn't guide them to watch important exhibitions and important permanent settings in these museums for 10, 15 years. I don't know how many Members of the Parliament here from Subotic who know how long the Saturday theater has been closed. The content took place in some other areas, but thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the pawning of our country's president this year has been set aside for the construction and completion of the works of the Subotic Theatre, 350 million dinars and, if we are lucky and work on it, the next year will finally be opened. We will talk about cities in focus that thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Culture have received significant funds to have new libraries, to have new spaces for culture. So more will be said of the European Capital of Culture Novi Sad in 2022. More will be said that one of the world's stars of Serbian origin, Mr. Stefan Milenkovic decided precisely because of the change in lifestyle, the policymaking, the sighting, the putting of culture on an important pedestal that deserves in this country, Stefan Milenkovic decided to come back to Serbia, stay here, work, teach young talents at the New Sad Music Academy and lead again the new concert hall that was built, built in Novi Sad along with a new building for music, middle and middle music, school and ballet schools. So there are plans to finally get Serbia a ballet academy, etc. In order not to hold back, please tell President Ivica Dacic that I am prepared to have one session separate from other laws and to devote it only to the conversation on culture, because we have nothing to be ashamed of, because indeed the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of our country, is paying extraordinary attention to culture. As you can see, in the last month we have only singled out and made decisions on new areas for very important museums here in Belgrade, but important from national importance. Certainly, the Nikola Tesla Museum and the History Museum of Serbia. If we had more content on television about culture, the citizens of Serbia would know much more, there would be no controversy and talk about culture only if there was a scandal or an incident on the scale of certain and only then we talk about culture, and we're not talking about culture when something is good. It is simply minimized how much Serbia has invested in the cultural segment over the past few years. I say that if we had more content, there would be no sensational talk about culture in the 21st century, or in the year 2020 in Serbia. To take advantage of, I promise, I will end this, to take this opportunity to tell you about the latest news and problems that Kolarac, Ilya Kolarca, has, and I see that the public is partially informed about what this is about. The situation in this task deserves a common serious approach not only to the city of Belgrade, not just one Ministry of Culture and Information, I think that the Ministry of Education, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should participate in this, but to agree that we should be equally responsible for the situation in Kolarce's task, and those who have led the task and we who can and we want to help and are ready to solve this problem. Recently, the head of Ilija Kolarca's task force was in a meeting a few days ago at the Ministry of Culture and Information, and I am saying this so that the citizens of Serbia who are interested in it would know, therefore, what was going on. As Minister of Culture and Information, I have offered a permanent solution to this situation in which Kolarac is today with a recommendation that we must, therefore, respect first and foremost the institution of employment. The easiest way would be to make it one of the institutions of the culture of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand, we all have to consider what message we send to private employees, if we change the original will of the people in charge, as Elijah Kolarac was. So, the state is only ready to think about what kind of message we're sending on the one hand and on the other. My proposal was to make it an institution of great importance for the Republic of Serbia and to entrust them with very important tasks, because they are both an educational institution in their essence and in their essence. Of course, this would solve the financing problem, as the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry would trust certain tasks of Kolarc's task to be carried out for us and for our society. I think that just growing a new audience is extremely important to us and that's one of the French models that I'm ready to discuss with everyone. What's important for our society is that we have to devote ourselves to it, that we have to commit ourselves to younger generations and educate them to be consumers of cultural content, to go to the theater, to go to the movies again, because cinema is content and experience in itself and to watch a different film, and not just these ways that they are dedicated to as young people, that they should read and have to read books. This is extremely important for us to develop a way of thinking, not to use 30 words in our own dictionary, and of course to dedicate ourselves to young parents. Our generation was led to museums on Saturdays and Sundays and children's theatres. We didn't go to the closed-houses and we didn't go to the cafes to watch Moms drink coffee. It can be done by one of the institutions of special importance, and we're willing to finance them all. Not to the public that the Ministry of Culture and Information did not assist Ilija Kolarac's staff, and systematically, I say the data from 2016 to 2020, the total amount of the ministry that allocated to Kolarce's debt 31 million 428 thousand, both programme and part of the cost. I think we should all focus on that and solve this problem. We're still waiting for the administrator's answer and the Kolarce's board of directors' services that we haven't received, whether they accept this model of solving this problem or what particular model they're offering. We would really like to discuss a specific model of problem solving, not just the problem of part of the cost from month to month, and if we cover one month to face everyone's big problem next month again, but to solve it systematically. So, the Ministry of Culture and Information offered Kolarc's model in charge of a permanent solution to the problem. On the other hand, we expect the manager's answer, but not media, but again at the meeting and of course the Management Board, because the state chooses boards to manage cultural institutions and to jointly seek solutions to any problem faced by cultural institutions in the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I want to point out that Kolarac is extremely important. We have to commit to that. Kolarac is a matter of national importance, the problems are not only dating back to this year Kovid, but for many years, and I hope that next time I will be able to introduce you to the correct solution that we have brought together, the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Kolarce's responsibility, i.e. leadership. Thank you, and I apologize for making it up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2205	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I will pass on your proposal to the President of the Assembly, and I believe that he, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Informing, is Sandra Christmas, the oran to schedule a special session that will be dedicated to culture in some future period. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2206	I would like to thank the chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of our parliamentary group and on behalf of the United Peasant Party for saying a number of specific things that concern, as the first public media service and these other confirmations of the treaty, agreement and what is on the agenda today. As for the first point of the public media service, I would also like to welcome our current president, Maja Gojkovic, the current minister of culture and information. I think she said everything that matters about culture, the ministry that she will lead in the next period. As for the public media service and the adoption of this law, the extension of the deadline until 31.12.2021, I think it is necessary because we are witnessing that in this current period public media service is what we can all see and can do, we can show all the necessary things about every man, wherever he is, whether it is in Srlig, whether in Nis, whether in Subotica or in any part of our country of Serbia. I'm satisfied with the public media service, but I think it would be good if in the next period we had a greater opportunity to see and hear more about those areas where I come from, like Svrlig, where there are a number of famous things within my municipality, quality and beautiful, that can be seen, which are very recognizable. One of these things was, there was almost a Samar cave in Kopai Kosari, which was included in Ginis' book of record, where Milutin Veljkovic had been there for more than a year and 100 days. There's a lot more nice stuff in there. I think that both Svrljig and Književec and Sokobanja and Nis and Pantelej, the municipality of Panteleus bordering the municipality from which I come Svrljig and all the surrounding municipalities have lots of nice things. It would be real if we had opportunities and timing within the public media service to talk about these environments, to talk about nice municipalities, about nice things, about nice things. This has been before, but now, we hope that in the next period of 2021, there will be this opportunity for more and more public media services to focus on these small environments. As I spoke earlier from those small environments came great people. I'm obliged to say, it was just before I was told by a gentleman who was from Unique Serbia, that now in such a difficult situation when the pandemic is, when our children don't go to school, where online continues to have the opportunity to provide themselves with basic knowledge and thus we can only do it through the public media service to finish it, to do it. Therefore, we need to give public media services much more support. The period now with us and this meeting of the Assembly, today and the next period, I think we will have the opportunity to have more important information as part of the public media service that is important for every man in any part of our country to live. I mean, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister Majo, I would call here, since we have been with you, I, as Parliament Speaker, for six years, and not once have you come to the municipality from which I come, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, the Svrlig municipality. You need to go around that community, see a lot of nice things together. We need it over here, here's a plan in our community to organize a cultural centre, to do the energy efficiency of a building that was built back in 50 years. We're planning on doing a little museum. Otherwise, the great chance of our small municipality is that a large number of roads pass through our municipality, through Nis, Svrlig, Književci, Zaječar, it is a highway. We have a railway that's very frequent, we have a airport where a large number of tourists come in. I think it would be a good idea for you to come and visit our community, my community from which I come Srlig. Normally, there is Nis and all the municipalities in southeastern Serbia. There we need to do this energy efficiency, do that museum, and we have the opportunity through a tourist organization to relocate all those beautiful things. As far as this law is concerned, I will vote as an MP and president of the USS. I think that's necessary. To give the media service more support and ask for media service to be seen and heard from a small medium such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, a municipality in southeastern Serbia. One of the laws, this is the bill on the confirmation of the contract is the construction of a piece of road that goes from Nis, and that part of the road will be very important to us because that part of Nis-Medara road, which our President Vukic started talking about, where last year, Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic spoke about where the procedure took place. Here, we will today confirm this contract where our country, the Corridors of Serbia, will enter into the process of working and ending that part of the road. One side of the road is from Nis to Pločnik, that's close to 33 kilometers. The value of these works is about 200, 250m euros. The European Bank helps with its resources and normally, by building this part of the road, for all of us it will be very important, in particular it will be important for people living in the Toplička District, for people living in Prokuplje, Nis, Blac, Žitoraj, Kursumlia, Brus, for us in Svrlig, in Knjižvac. All of us living in that part of Serbia, that part of the road will be very important precisely because it will have the opportunity through the traffic frequency to provide business activity, to ensure a better flow of goods, a better flow of everything that brings profits to our economic operators, our agricultural producers, our peasants. In addition to this economic part, this road to building that part of the road from Nis to Merdar, the construction of that road, other than profits and businesses, will be good and political because we combine the two countries, bring together two cultures, combine something that is good for all of us, and tomorrow we can be sure that by building this part of the road we will have the opportunity to get to the port of Durres, where we will be able to provide and what is said tourism opportunities for our people to go to sea. On the other hand, they will come to us and work together in the interest of reconciliation, in the interest of respect and all of our cultures. The construction of this part of the road is very important and this is a big thing, as our president, Mr. Vukic, said, building roads, it's a merger of people, it's a merger of everything that's always been good, and it's never been good for these roads to collapse, that bridges are collapsing. This way we will now build roads, build bridges to bring people together, thus ensuring better living conditions for our people living here in southeastern Serbia, and for them downstairs. I think this is very positive, that it's very good, and I hope we have a chance for the next two, two and a half years to finish this part of the way. I mean specifically the construction of the Nis-Pločnik road, and later the second part of the Pločnik-Medara road. The funds will be provided. The value of all these works is close to 900m euros, but Serbia's state has, in co-operation with the European Commission, provided these funds with the European Bank, and I am sure more machinery operations will be needed, a larger number of perpetrators, or more people who will work on building that part of the road. I'm sure they'll have the opportunity to hire people living in Prokuplje, Blac, Žitoraj, Nis, Merošina, and Srlig, Gajina Han. Out of all these municipalities, there will be people who will have their salary there to work, and normally in this way our labour force, or people living in southeastern Serbia, will be employed. Dear fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, once again, I will support all these bill proposals. I think this needs to be done. I think it's necessary to invest in a public media service. It's very important that we build and build roads. Once again, as president of the United Peasants' Party, I will support all these draft laws that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2207	Thank you. Minister Maja Gojkovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2208	Thank you. I want to thank you for your discussion. I certainly accept your invitation to come to Srlig and we'll agree in 2021 when it will be. Yes, the tendency of the Ministry of Culture and Information is to focus specifically on developing the infrastructure in culture in cities and municipalities outside the capital, outside Belgrade and, of course, the European capital of culture, Novi Sad. That is why, together with the finance minister, of course, with the Prime Minister, I have increased the exceptional funding for the competition that is now under way, which is the competition "Towns in Focus". It has already been called and I ask you to pay attention to the projects in the area of culture relating to the construction of infrastructure in your places. This year, the record of 349,500 million dinars was set aside. How much more and how much space there is for more towns and municipalities in Serbia to get both theatres and galleries and cultural centres and museums along with the Ministry of Culture and Information, it is certainly the fact that the budget rebalance due to the Kovid situation on the site was 99.5 million dinars. Otherwise, there were 150 million dinars on average, and now 349,500 million dinars. So, I think there's room for everyone and, of course, for your community to participate with serious projects, but also for you to realize them all in the year in which the budgets were allocated. Of course, another item. This year we set out to elect the capital of Serbia's culture. So it will be one city in Serbia in which the state will invest in the area of culture, as is now the European capital of culture. According to this example, we decided to start such a competition this year and try, therefore, systematically to do a lot for one city or for one municipality in our country every year. So, I repeat, the competition is under way. Extremely large funds, 349,500 million dinars have been allocated to improve and develop cultural or cultural infrastructures in all cities in the country. Belgrade and Novi Sad have been excluded from the possibility that they too are competing to receive funds in this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2209	Thank you, Minister. Before we go any further, I just want to let you know. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2210	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers and Vice-Presidents of the Government, I believe that the President of the Assembly will respect your proposal and that at one of the next sessions we will speak very closely and extensively about culture. Today, we have a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Media Services. Very briefly, this proposal makes it clear that the government fulfils its legal obligation under the Media Public Services Act and provides a stable financing of the basic activity of media public services, their editorial independence, institutional autonomy, while taking care of the economic environment and the economic strength of the debtor. So it's good for the government to keep doing its job. Our work should also be done by the MPs and, of course, the media public service to do its own, namely to produce high-quality media content, to provide objectively, timely and balanced information to the citizens of Serbia about everything that is going on in the country. It's something the SDPS certainly insists on, because it's a business and legal obligation of a media public service. Here, just a little math, to make it clearer. According to business reports, RTS, from last year's tax, when it amounted to 220 dinars, amounted to 7.42 billion dinars, resulting in slightly more than 2,811,517 citizens paying a fee for media public service. Assuming that the same number of citizens paid a subscription of 255 dinars this year, RTS received 8.6 billion dinars, while in 2021, with a subscription of 299 dinars to RTS, it would be around 10.8 billion dinars. Clearly, then, the amount of between two and three billion dinars from the budget can be compensated from a television fee. Besides, it was also the position of the Fiscal Council, whose expertise I believe in, in their analysis of the 2021 draft budget. So that's where this part of the amendment to the Media Public Service Act would end. What is extremely important is to confirm the agreement between France and Serbia on cinematographic co-production. People often build prejudices and stereotypes about the unbreakable traditional, centuries-old and I don't know what friendships with other peoples and countries, most often bigger, richer, more influential, etc. However, friendship is somehow a more personal category, and the idea and friendly relations of peoples and states builds a political elite in concrete historical contexts and with very clear goals. For this reason, I am very pleased that we today have a confirmation of such an agreement, which has an extremely clear and useful goal. Two centuries of intense rich and content French-Serbian relations are more than a good reason to develop and improve traditionally good relations between our two countries. In fact, there are few people in this part of Europe who can boast of such a tradition of developed relations with France. Two centuries of French-Serbian relations are actually spiritual capital that Serbs have with the French and can be the basis for developing even better relations with France and in the context of our country's Euro-Atlantic integration. In any case, Belgrade is an important part of the European cultural puzzle and I am glad that you know it and insist on it, because there is no national identity without culture, no future, no survival of the people, either. We live in a sensitive time, when the world changes, and some of the usual ideas about values change. Society, social communities, that is, the entire human civilization is looking for new pillars of trust and culture would certainly have to be one of those backers. Culture opens doors and strengthens links between peoples and plays on a map of culture, invest in it, insist on cultural creation and exchange is always a gain in the long term for both the state and society. When culture develops, no one suffers, it profites in the long run in various ways. That's not a topic right now, so I'm not going to spread. I look forward to one of the next sessions where we will discuss it more extensively. Co-operation in the area of cinematography of cultural heritage is important for both countries, therefore, both France and Serbia, and I want to stress and point out the potential for its further development. A great deal of attention is given to the Republic of France to its cinema, as well as to co-operation with the countries of co-production partners that it puts at the top of those countries whose co-productions receive the most funds from various international funds, Eurimage, I would single out as one of the most important. The possibilities for Serbia and all actors in the film industry to find themselves in that position and have significant resources, as well as greater European and world visibility, suggest the specificity and exceptional importance of the signed Cinema Co-production Agreement between Serbia and France. It should be noted that in the last five years, producers from Serbia and France have together produced more than 10 feature films and that the Cinema Co-production Agreement between Serbia and France also allows for the use of co-production funds of more than 2.5m euros. So far, co-operation with the Republic of France is taking place in technical cooperation, and these are just some of the potentials that I would like to point out in accordance with my time. The truth is, this has already been said here that the French film has taken a special place in world cinema ever since the Brothers of the Limit of Humanity gave the most valuable gift, and the truth is, it is one of the previous speakers and stated, "The entrance of the train to the station", is the first ever film, and that year is recorded in history as the beginning of cinematography. But the first film with a script only appeared when another Frenchman, George Mellyes, entered the film world. By sticking to the topic we are discussing, I end up here, with the announcement that, of course, the SPS parliamentary group will support all the proposals we are discussing today, and with special joy the Agreement on Cinematographic Co-production between France and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2211	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2212	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, I'll start past the agenda, so I'll congratulate the good children of Serbia, the Spanish Orthodox religion on Materica's holiday, they look forward to it. Those of you who had an accident this morning that your moms were e-mails, they'll probably get you something later. So, I want you in a good mood and first in health, to spend this holiday and all the holidays ahead. As we heard from our colleagues, we have important agendas, important laws. Somehow when Minister Gojkovic is here, the two of us have been involved in culture and information in the past term, so for us, this is continuity, only now I'm looking at it a little differently, somehow I feel more comfortable sitting across the street. Important laws, first of all, the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Media Services. They told my colleagues how important it was to secure the financing of public media services and in your explanation you said the keys to things, and it seems to me, and that is, from the position of the state, above all, to help them stay at the level at which we expect. Do we criticise them, do we hear criticism, whether we ourselves in this room are often dissatisfied, yes, but anyone who does this and makes mistakes, and it would be somewhat unnatural for us not to have criticism on the subject of Serbia's public service. It just doesn't happen anywhere in the world to be right. It should also be fair to itself, but also to the public service people in the part where the year was, here slowly behind us in 2020 was difficult and challenging on different topics, and also on the subject to send out everything that was happening daily. There, I will agree with my colleague Starcevic, who pointed out that the public service has really responded to the task when it comes to online teaching, it seems to me that it was one of the most important moments, especially because it was about the education of our children, who, by the circumstances, were exposed to the fact that they could not have regular teaching, or at least for a time they were condemned to this line. I agree, it's never as high-quality as interactive communication between teaching staff and children. However, all representatives of the Ministry of Education, i.e. employees of education and public services, have succeeded in responding to this little task at all. I sincerely hope that in 2021, it will bring about some relaxed situation when it comes to at least this segment concerning the coronary virus, and that, now, it is certain that, with the vaccine, we will stop one monster that has disrupted both our habits and our lives, and at some point, it seems to me, all of us are afraid that we will never go back to the way we were. So we are responding to our task, as the National Assembly and you as the Ministry, by adopting this law, it is also contained in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we all voted for, so it would be less, it would be unnatural not to support one of these changes today. The second law concerning the Ministry of Culture and Information, before us, is the law on co-operation of cinematographic between Serbia and France, and I will not say anything new if I say that co-operation between the two countries is traditional. True, somehow historically when we go back we were always allies, it's true, we have little reason to sometimes have a bitter feeling in our mouth, but it's also true that it's in our tradition to forget what's always been good for us. We always believe that tomorrow, and somewhere like a country, we're willing to make it a lot better for us tomorrow. Such a bill on cinematographic co-production between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France promises. It would be crazy to add anything to the discussion of my esteemed colleague Natasha, who spoke nicely about what the tradition of this French film is, it is important to say one more thing, which is that Serbia has also shown that it deserves the attention of one naive cinematography, I am talking about France, because it is the right and more quality to choose its associates. In that sense, I think it is with pride for Serbia and for the fact that in Serbian cinema they have recognised the capacity for co-operation, co-production and for making some new films in the future, which generations will remember. Every day will be history, someone will talk and write about it, and make movies, why not. What is to say is that, the minister said, I completely agree with you, you have no influence on any programme scheme, nor on representatives of Serbia's public services or commercial televisions, and we discussed that when the topic here was the choice of REM members. We'd all be a little bit concerned with editorial policy, whether we're from this room, or those around this hall, and around this building, and about some own axis, in which criticism is unorthodox and brutal. I also agree, that it would have anything to add, but on the other hand, when you provide one of these stable situations, and it seems to me, with this we provide, it promises, and that the more relaxed those who have the right to influence the programming scheme will have the same effect, and hopefully, we will also be proud of these shifts. In that sense, and I say that this co-operation, that is, this co-operation law on co-production, or cinematographic co-production, is very important. It will improve all other co-operations, according to Natasha, it seems to me that we have made over 10 feature films in that joint co-production, I believe there will be more. The other one is standing somewhere counting on the fact that it's all a little bit in the way of what we're going to talk about tomorrow, which is that Serbia has always been the rest of Europe, despite the fact that I don't have formal paper that we're members of the EU. These are all steps on the way to the EU and are not small and are not negligible. I think it's good to make them right from these positions, from the position of a culture that's somewhere synonym to civilization, no matter what state we're talking about, who we're talking about. Where there is no culture, there is no normal life. In this sense you received a difficult task and somehow in these difficult years for the state of Serbia culture was often known to be, conditionally speaking, damaged. I don't think that the quality of work, of culture, of institution, of workers, is measured by how much resources will be allocated, but it is important, it is very important that we take care of it. Yesterday I heard, I think that in the parliamentary group one of my colleagues commented, Churchill's statement at a time when the funds were missing, so they suggested that it be taken from some culture fund, he replied – what we would fight for if we took the funds from there. We'd have to be a little more careful in that sense, but it's not a subject right now, it's pointless to talk about it. We tried a little bit to look back when the topic was the budget of the Republic of Serbia and there really is no place for a critical reference under the circumstances that it is a developmental budget and that he did sort out the priorities, not at the expense of culture, simply, we now have some non-essential things and, unfortunately, more importantly, I would say, so finally this hint of mass vaccination. It's not a little challenge either, and we've had a chance to hear that it's not easy to manage. The third law in a row, Minister Udovic, I think that you are in this session for the first time with us and welcome as an official representative of the government on the subject of one law, confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on removing double taxation in relation to income taxes and preventing tax evasion and avoidance. I have a double responsibility when I talk about this subject, first of all as president of the Serbian-Japan Group of MPs. Another traditional friendship, I'd say, again, friendship that had its own oscillations, as well as all friendships. It's important not to break up, it's important that they don't cease to exist as such, but they did have their plus and minus some period of communist rule, so let's say. Today somehow, it seems to me, we are entering a phase of serious co-operation. This agreement, in that sense, is important. This Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on the Elimination of Double Taxation against Income Taxes and the Prevention of Tax Evasion and Avoidance was signed in Belgrade, if I am not mistaken, on 21 July 2020, and I am not mistaken, concerns the removal of an anomaly that would have a bad impact on all of our future co-operations. The need for this type of contract has arisen due to the process of globalisation and some of our aspirations to delete borders, not only in relation to countries in the region, but we have already shown a clear attitude and have finally been the initiator of something called Mini Schengen, but also beyond. Serbia must be an open market for all countries, for all major economies. Japan is definitely one of them. In that sense, it's a deal like this, this isn't the first agreement of this guy, I think we've already signed agreements with this guy with several states before Japan, our thinking has to be global, and in that sense we're not allowed to limit ourselves. So I welcome one such agreement, one such initiative and one such step at all, because it will provide space for another co-operation that is economic. Somewhere in favour of the claim that this agreement has something to do with the recent arrival of Japan's Tojo Tyres in India, which has decided to build its tire production plant for cars and trucks. The value of this investment is 382 million dinars. I'm saying this because of the public, not because anyone in this room or any of you who represents the Government knows not what it's about, but to realize that this factory will employ 560 workers, that the plot on which it stretches will have about 64 hectares and that is provided, as far as I understand, by the Indji municipality, which speaks of one synchronisation between all authorities in the state of Serbia, which is important. The plan is to produce five million tyres annually, both on the EU market and on the Russian market, as stated in the announcements. So Tojo Tyres, one of the world's largest tire manufacturers, was founded in 1945. I will end this story here about the importance of co-operation with Japan, not because it would have nothing to say, but because these figures say that for Japanese businessmen, a signal that "Tojo Tyres" as one of the major producers and giants of the Japanese economy came to Serbia will certainly be a motive. And for us, it's a confirmation that this part of the deal regarding a stable single country market that promises we've really done right. The agreement that we are talking about today, and which SPS MPs, on whose behalf I speak today as an authorised representative, will certainly be voted by one continuity of good co-operation and I hope, not only with Japan. All of our other bilateral relations, which I say again, are traditionally good and no matter what, I also have to look back, Japan did recognise Kosovo's independence, but we had a very important moment for us, at a time when the current president of the Assembly was the foreign minister, which is that, if I am not mistaken, Japan was restrained when it came to voting for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO and Interpol. These are procedures that are more important than the bitter taste we had when Japan recognised Kosovo. Because this schizophrenic recognition of Kosovo that happened at some point in the world was really without our reaction, so most countries, I can almost say, had no awareness of how much damage it did to Serbia with one such recognition that was uncovered. Japan has shown this kind of abstention on an important topic, indeed for us an important topic, in fact this friendly relationship, and perhaps it has explained to us at some point how much we have remained silent on an important topic. But, again, so I don't stray from what's topic and reduce what's important to the agenda, I'm gonna stop here anyway. And as a fourth, but not least – Confirmation of the Loan Treaty (Building the E-80 Nis-Medara highway, Nis-Pločnik stock, phase 1) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The contract was signed on 25 November 2020. The purpose of the project is to help build a section of the highway, approximately 32km long, according to Niš-Pločnik highway standards in the Republic of Serbia, which is part of the E-80 route of Nis-Medara. This is a 85m-euro loan, a loan period is until 31 December 2026, which is also a deadline for completion of works. The project is an important part of route seven, as links between route six and corridor XS, connecting Nis with Albania and the Adriatic and the Ionian Sea and their ports. This will help improve Bulgaria, Serbia and Albania's ties. This isn't irrelevant. I'm reading this official data completely aware that I'm not wrong, because you can be as smart as you want, this is a profession that a man must respect when he doesn't know much about her, and I, unfortunately, don't know much about her. If I had the capacity of a Milutin Mrkonjic, today I would know what I'm talking about, this is how I have to read what the facts are. The project will be conducted by the business company Corridori Serbia, which is also important, because we think that domestic entities should do everything possible and this section of the highway comes to the place of Pločnik for which I, under the circumstances, deal with these laws, have come to the conclusion that there is an archaeological site of Vincan culture in the same village near the coast of Toplice and is not far from Prokuplje. It is a complex of settlements from the younger stone age and stretches on a surface of 110 hectares, and discoveries from the first decade XXI century suggest that it is the oldest metallurgical site in the world. The site itself is also significant by the found remains of ceramics and samples of figurative plastics. In early September 2009, construction of the Neolithic Village began, and there are ideas that the locality should be connected by a tourist train to Prokuplje, Kursumlia and Djavol Varoshi. Here we are again with one of those pearls of Serbia that she has in her, which even we who live in her didn't know until the end... Before, unfortunately, the Crown made us know our country, because we couldn't admire others. I believe that the archaeological site and the locality in Pločnik will now be even more attractive by the fact that this share is ending and that it is not a naive buckle and transitive, if you will, so it is important to say that sometimes these paths lead exactly where they should go, that the whole world and all those who have an ambition to travel should know the tradition and culture of our not-so-great but beautiful Serbia, which is indeed abundant with the pearls of a different type. I'm running out of time. Finally, I will stress that Serbian Socialist Party MPs will certainly vote in favour of all four proposed laws and that, as so far, I think that this morning the president of the Assembly spoke about it, worked in line with, above all, the Rules of Procedure, but first with the need for citizens to improve their quality of life by improving some laws. When it comes to 2021, I'm almost sure we'll see each other, especially with the culture minister. I always have a problem with this gender equality when I run into myself to say, with the minister of culture, and then I realize that it's not good, but this "minister" sounds kind of like a Nusic to me here, as I'd like to tell you... All in all, I'm sure there are laws in the field of culture and information to be dealt with. Knowing Maja Gojkovic, I know it will happen soon. And all the other laws that are ahead of us, in 2021, we will be pleased and analyzed and help to perhaps be more nuanced than what you propose as executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2213	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. Minister Maja Gojkovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2214	As I say, honourable messengers, call me whatever you want, just respect me. This is most important, although many women will not agree with this observation, because they say that part of our efforts to be equal in our society and the use of female gender to indicate whether we are a minister or minister, precisely because of this persuasive Nusic's understanding of women who are not concerned with politics, but married to politicians, the minister has become an ugly address. The film is an extremely important and film industry for the Republic of Serbia, because it is, I feel free to say, one of the factories that, even under these difficult circumstances, has not stopped working in our country. It's important for the economy and it's important for the overall picture of our country in the world. We used to have really significant film makers and directors. We still have them, of course, who were famous for completing the famous “Praise Film School” or Czech, Czechoslovakia film school. These are the directors who are still with us today one of the best directors we have ever had, and that is certainly the director Emir Kusturica, who just, receiving awards at the Cannes Festival, drew attention to his film works and then his career went the way up. There is, of course, Goran Paskaljevic, who recently passed away, but also Lordan Zafranovic, Rajko Grlic and many other Serbian and Yugoslav authors. I think we have a lot in new generations too. We should give them a chance and support them in the same way that this Yugoslav cultural policy has done for other reasons to remove suspicion from themselves that it is not a free-thinking state. They supported the film industry in a special way, and we should all think about making sure that one of the coming years is declared a year of film in Serbia and that we make a breakthrough through the film, in the world as part of our public diplomacy and new communication with Europe and with other cultural spaces. We should not run away from this ugly fact that we are often shown in Hollywood productions in an extremely negative way. We can answer them by breaking our film into the world, that we are people like everyone else who has experienced an extraordinary historical injustice in one period, but that we have extremely good artists in the film industry. Believe me, culture can do much to make the world look at us with other eyes. I say, the year of the film would be a great help and I hope that they think the same way as me and many others and that we will succeed in the next period. I just want to tell you about film production, the promotion of film production is filmmaking in our country. This year, something like 830 million has been defined for the work of Serbia's film centre right in this segment, and since this year, the Ministry of Culture and Information has also been responsible for the distribution of incentives in the film industry, which is what we want as many foreign production films to be recorded in Serbia and the series, but also co-production and domestic. They are equal in the category of incentives, and for this year, as many as 700 million were allocated, which is one significant amount of funding. We have fierce competition in the world, but also in Europe, in our environment, as regards the incentive for film action. I'm saying, it's not just as much money as the quality of the film workers here in Serbia since the Republic of Serbia brought the Encouragement Regulation to the film industry. It's just that there's so much work that teams can't form easily or find themselves, and even bring in film workers from other European countries, which is good. The film is an important segment in our country's public diplomacy, but culture is also extremely important. Next time, I'm going to bring in exact economic indicators as far as we've had this branch of economics bounced in the past few years and brought considerable revenue to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2215	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Nenad Barosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2216	The esteemed chairpersons and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda of today's ninth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have several draft laws that characterise the international element, which are predominantly pointing to the good interstate relations that the Republic of Serbia has with the Government of the Republic of France today, Japan, but also to good relations with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which Serbia points to the fact that it wants to co-operate in the fields of culture, in the areas of tax relations, but also to continue continued infrastructure and generally observed economic growth, development and progress. Also at today's session on the agenda, we also have a proposal to supplement the Law on Public Media Services, which regulates the public information system. Therefore, this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Media Services provides for the financing of the basic activity of public media services, which is in the general public interest and, consequently, in the existing law after Article 62a, a new member of 62a is added, which says: "In order to carry out the basic activity which is in the function of achieving public interest, the Public Media Institute RTS and the Public Media Institute, by 31 December 2021, are partly financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia". So, this addition of the law continues to fund RTS and RTS for a small part by the Government of Serbia, which proves the government's concern of general public interest, the preservation and improvement of the democratic values of society, and thus also concerns all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also employees of these two public media services. A combined model like this, where I repeat with the government, the small percentage participates in funding, prevents the introduction of the underlying activity of RTS and RTS. The provision of funds for the functioning of these public media services is most often carried out through the payment of fees, over 60% and such funding is indeed liquids and practices of virtually all developed European democratic countries, since this enables independent functioning and independent editorial policy of public media services. Although it is still unpopular, the tax in our country is still practically the cheapest in Europe, cheaper than it is, for example, the residents or citizens of BiH where it is 7.8 converting marks, i.e. about 3.5 euros, not to mention Switzerland and their 26.83 francs at monthly level, Austria 25 euros, or Germany 17.5 euros per month in household. Otherwise, as a reminder, I would point out that this tax was introduced in 2005 and that it has since come to the electricity bill. So it was introduced in 2005 when the top critics of both these authorities and RTS and taxis and any kind of RTS financing were in power today. The main problem is the marketing income that makes RTS, which is not under their direct authority, that is, do not directly participate in the resale of marketing seconds and minutes. The whole of Serbia knows a well-developed business scheme that has brought 619m euros to one man. So, an abnormal wealth where even people in serious business circles wonder that in such a short time someone managed to acquire such an amount of wealth, and it is particularly sensitive for the reason he did so while he was the bearer of important political and public functions in the Republic of Serbia. So, his rise begins in 2004 when he founded, throughout Serbia, the already known "Multicon Group" and within it "Darrekt Media", and then joined the then ruling DS and so over the years the functions fell. They even changed from representatives of the National Office, i.e. the head of the People's Office of the President of the Republic, then Boris Tadic, to a ministerial post without portfolios, to the mayor of Belgrade. Power has also changed, influence has changed, but what hasn't changed is a business scheme, and what would change when it brings so much wealth, unfortunately, to the misfortune of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the employees themselves at RTS. It was a public secret. Of course, the man we're talking about, we all know, is Dragan Gillas. There were also those who dared to bring their visions together during that time period and, as I said, business schemes, as well as to ask a few questions. Now the late Verica Barac, president of the Anti-Corruption Council, said at a conference in the Anti-Corruption Partnership in 2011, quotes: "Somehow in Serbia the most powerful in the media sphere were also the closest to the state summit, and two very close men to Serbian President Mr. Shaper and Mr. Gilas have established control of media space through their media companies." It cited and had the courage to say, in addition to this statement, that a huge amount of money for advertising came from the Republic of Serbia's budget and added that Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas now has two firms through which the channels for money and the purchase of ads go through, but also that other serious influences on the media are being carried out. Imagine today, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the mayor of Belgrade or often an unfairly disputed deputy have, say, an agency that resells minutes of "Study B" established by the Belgrade City Assembly or imagine that one of the ministers present has an agency and that they resell minutes of RTS. Indeed, you will agree that it sounds incredible and impossible. Also, dramatist Siniš Kovacevic, as one of the top critics of the current government, President Aleksandr Vukic, then critic of RTS, her business and, of course, critic of the character and part of Dragan Gilas, with whom he is quite close, pointed out how to finance, or how to sell the marketing minutes of RTS. Otherwise, he is often on television today, which is being financed from RTS and all RTS employees. He described the way in which so much wealth was acquired through a simple addressed question and a letter to the public, saying: “That’s why a private company, so that just as God owns it, had to be a mediator in this quantum scam when it could be done by the marketing of state television, which is why it exists. ” So from this open letter, we see that so much wealth has been obtained by simple reselling. This kind of shop is no more complex than selling peppers at the Quantash. All it takes is a little influence, power, a little immorality, and that's what Mr. Gilas had ahead of him. Now I'm going to describe to you an event from our past, and right from the time she was doing RTS that way, that happened in practice. The president, then president, of the business system of one of the largest pharmaceutical houses in the Republic of Serbia, decided to significantly raise positions in the marketing budget in that year and tasked one of his directors to leave and make a public call to all interested entities. Otherwise, the director was later one of the important political local entities. So this director, at that time, goes out of public advertising to RTS to arrange to buy minutes and seconds in the busiest terms. However, he is welcomed by the knowledge, which causes him to be amazed that all the minutes and seconds in these most visible, most violent terms have already been sold in advance. Employee at RTS, simply giving, believe it or not, a card agency that bought out all minutes and seconds and instructed a man to report to a specific address. He's leaving, and he's also appalled by the fact that he got from an employee, otherwise employed, you assume everyone at the Darrekt Media, that he owns, behold, his colleague from college and friend, Mr Dragan Gilas. He invites and arranges to buy for seconds and minutes, although he had a problem explaining to the president of the business system why he bought it at such prices, because it was simply inconceivable and incredible that something like this was happening at RTS and one state institution, and the situation in those years may best describe the cry of the late editor-in-chief, Aleksandr Tijanic, who during 2009, 2010 and 2011, simply asked the state authorities, the Prime Minister of the Republic, to help RTS, because in case they do not go out, RTS will go bankrupt and shut down. He was unfortunately also a signer, I'll say, of a harmful RTS contract with those agencies. His initiatives, his motives, what made him do it, unfortunately we'll never know because he took the secret with him. Today RTS and RTS are truly the real bloggers of public interest and have adapted their work to the state of preservation and improvement of the democratic values of society. This may well be seen in these difficult times in connection with the monsters that hit us, where the RTS workers were always in the right place at the right time, reporting to us truthfully, precisely, timelyly and verified, which is extremely significant in such a difficult situation. Just imagine what kind of machinery it takes to wash it all out. Neither can anyone notice nor praise the organisation of online teaching on RTS programmes, which enables our students to acquire the necessary academic knowledge and to perfect themselves in the field of education, are big and important things. Not to mention a more detailed programming scheme, an editorial policy where indeed in the embrace of various content for each can be found for something and often in languages that are in use in the Republic of Serbia. Although we, as part of the government, often have objections to the work of media public services in Serbia, which is absolutely normal, not everything can be ideal. I think we should all support RTS and RTS, as well as this bill, because they are still our best representatives of public interest. On today's agenda there is also a draft law on confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and on the construction of the highway E-80 Nis-Medara, shares Nis-Pločnik, Phase 1. The contract allows the provision of part of the funds to build more kilometers of highways in Serbia. In particular, this highway is not only important for the further economic development of our country, it is not only important for the integration of numerous regions and districts in our country, for attracting investors, but is important from both the political plan and the political aspect. Politically because the route of this highway extends from Serbia and across the territory of our southern province to Merdar, from Merdar to Pristina, and the end point is Luka Durres, which we go out to the Adriatic and Ionian Sea. There is no development of any country unless they connect, no matter how much we love each other or don't love each other on this side of the border. The route of this highway passing through Serbia, which will be 77km in total, is important for the development of several districts in Serbia, is more attractive for investors, thus allowing further development and progress, but also for the remaining young people in those parts and those areas that this highway will pass through. We'll have 350 kilometers of highways left behind, 250 kilometers of construction, not to mention all of them. So, the Moravski Corridor, the highway Sremska Raca - Kuzmin, the highway Preljina-Požega, the fast railways Belgrade-Novi Sad, Pojate-Kruševac, the extension of the highway "Milosa Veliki" from Cačka to Požega etc. During the previous government in this regard, Serbia was a black hole. We were all being visited, and the very fact that we have 20 million vehicles on our routes more than we had in 2012, is the best indicator of the state of infrastructure of our roads and how far Serbia has actually progressed and how much it has developed. We also have on the agenda a bill confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Japan to eliminate double taxation in relation to income taxes and to prevent tax evasion and avoidance. The conclusion of this contract would make a significant contribution to improving the bilateral co-operation we have with Japan, would facilitate business investment for both our firms in Japan and Japanese firms in the Republic of Serbia, and would of course lead to the use of financial instruments to encourage, as I said, higher forms of bilateral co-operation and financial co-operation. Also, we have marked 140 years of traditional friendship and bilateral relations with Japan, and the fact is that this co-operation and this friendship is growing every day and is improving, and this is also being witnessed by a large investment that took place just a few days ago in India, where a cornerstone was set for, discussed by MPs, a Japanese tire factory "Tojo Tyres" worth about 400m euros. It should also be recalled that Japanese investors are very interested in opening another factory of total value in Novi Sad, an incredible two billion dollars. Finally, we have a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Cinema Co-production between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, which regulates co-production cinematographic co-operation. And given the global significance of French film, French cinematography, and it's more than clear the importance of passing this law. At the very end, I would like to invite all MPs as representatives of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic - For our children" to support the proposals of these laws and to support further development and culture in the voting day, the preservation of public interest, the democratic values of society, but also to further strengthen our country's co-operation with a number of other European and world states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2217	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Nenad Barash, authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children". Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) If not, we move on to the list of registered persons. The first is National MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2218	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, ministers with my associates, I will today refer to the proposal for a law relating to the Loan Treaty and, in this sense, to this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, enables the realisation of the first phase of the construction of the E-80 Nis-Medara highway, i.e. a concrete share of Nis-Pločnik. It is also important for Serbia to engage in the construction of the said transport infrastructure and to enable not only our country, but also countries in the region, to connect with each other and to expose all the positive effects of sustainable development, which can only be achieved through mutual and mutual co-operation and is precisely the realization of a project like this forward towards that goal. The Nis-Medara highway remains Pristina, one of the projects proposed under the Berlin Process, which was actually presented in a diplomatic initiative launched in 2014 by German Chancellor Angela Merkel in order to support a peaceful, stable and democratic future of the Western Balkans and to improve regional co-operation continue to be Euro-integration in this region. Also, building this highway will allow Serbia to exit to the Albanian port of Durres, the Adriatic Sea and thus, in practice, will connect about half a million Serbian citizens living in Toplico, Nisavski, or Pirotski County. Furthermore, connecting between Belgrade and Pristina in this way sends a message that there is actually a possibility that societies that are in each other's conflict one day will overcome these problems, that is to overcome each other's conflicts and mutual disagreements and achieve results that will ultimately contribute to the benefits of both sides and ultimately achieve the development of the Western Balkans and raise it to an entirely higher level than it is now on. This will have a causal effect on trade in this part of Serbia, as well as between these two regions, which can directly affect economic opportunities both in our country and in the countries in the region. Belgrade and Pristina, as we all know, are intensively negotiating the normalisation of relations, and the construction of the highway can be viewed as one of the elements that will bring this normalisation of the relationship to one appropriate level, i.e. fostering this co-operation and in this sense the Nis-Medara highway is not only important for the development of the economy and the integration of the district, but is also important from one political aspect and can be considered as some kind of initiative that Serbia is actually leading to the relevant results when it comes to relations with Pristina. The route of the future highway from Merošina, located in Nisavska County, continues towards the Toplička County, next to Prokuplje, Beljoljin, Pločnik, Kursumli further to Merdara, and in that sense I think it is very important to use this route for all the political potentials that exist on this section. One of them was Kursumliska Banja, then the Devil's Varosh, a colleague of Snježana's earlier spoke of it, then the locality of Vinčan culture – Pločnik, which is thought to be actually the oldest metalogical place in the world, and in this sense it might not be bad to use it for some tourist potential in our favor. Finally, this is a practical road connecting the two regions of Europe and it is part of the Mini Schengen, which means that it is part of an economic and political package to develop a solution to relations in the Western Balkans, i.e. between regions in the Western Balkans. Although I come from Nis, the Warm District is only a few dozen miles away. According to Toplica, more than 80,000 people live in Toplica, and close to 6 000 people are unemployed, and that is why the construction of this section of the highway, namely this highway, should be viewed as a developmental opportunity not only for the residents of the Toplic district, but also for the municipality of Merošin, which belongs to the Nisava County and here I am primarily thinking of new employment through the recruitment of residents from this part of Serbia on the construction of the highway, but also because of the arrival of new investors that may be easier, or better traffic infrastructure this way and attracts them. After building Corridor 10 on one side and the E80 highway, which we are talking about today, Nis connects with the Adriatic Sea and becomes a real Balkan intersection, which is actually a strategic and when we have one such connection both Nis and Prokuplje, i.e. two very important districts in southern Serbia, thus passing not only along Merošina, but also by Cloud Lake. With the use of the natural potentials that exist in this part of Serbia, given that this part is rich in cherry, then we can really say that building this highway can create multiple benefits in every possible sense for the inhabitants of these two districts. Despite the unquestionable importance of building the E80 highway, I have to mention that there are also a large number of capital infrastructure projects in relation to southern Serbia, which should be resolved in some future period and I think that we have started to solve these problems, but perhaps we need to step up the work on them. First of all, I'm thinking about moving the rail from the city's core and building bypasses across the city, then finishing the project documentation of the wastewater treatment plant, I think Nišlje will be very grateful to you on this, then opening the exit to the highway from Niška Banja. These are all things that we need to talk about and which, sooner or later, will have a major impact on the quality and standard of life of citizens in southern Serbia. I did not plan to talk today about the topic relating to culture, given that my colleague Natasha explained well and argued everything about the law that we are discussing today, which applies to the area of culture, but I will only take this opportunity to simply remind myself that Nis has one of the best puppet theatres not only in Serbia, but also in this part of the Balkans, or Europe, and I think it is very important, and I will ask the minister to pay attention to this theatre for the next year for the reasons why theatre lovers and how they know that they appreciate good work. Also, on this occasion, I would suggest that it might not be a bad idea to make some plan for better functioning of the Academy Theatre in Nis. In fact, there are young people who believe in what they're doing and there's a whole new level of culture that will one day create generations that will build real social values that will know that your efforts and work are taking advantage of in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2219	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Sanja Jefic Brankovic. The word has an independent MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2220	I'll do my best to break this idol between MPs and ministers in these five minutes of opposition, and I'll say I won't vote for the Law on Public Media Services, that is. changes and additions to this law not because I have something against these concrete solutions, but because the law is part of a media architecture that came from a strategy that has completely burned down and destroyed all local media houses in Serbia. So, this strategy that was adopted by 2014, for which both SNS and DS voted together in 2014, no matter how much you're conflicting now, you were working on the same task, it's for the simple reason that both parties have policies the European Union has no alternative. It is a policy that dictated from Brussels our media strategy and led to over 1,300 journalists and media workers lost their jobs all over Serbia except in central metropolis, such as Belgrade and Novi Sad. Speaking about what is usually a conflict between the regime and the opposition for 30 years, and this is the editorial policy of public media services, especially RTS and RTS, our political class has completely ignored one much more serious and essential problem that is happening, which is that most of Serbia is in the media dark because the moment you conducted the brutal privatisation of the media on the site we have come to the conclusion that the monitoring of events that are relevant to a local community depends only on the profit-freeness of private media owners. So we came into a situation that most of Serbia today has been kind of discriminated against. My Sumadinians don't have their own public media service, so they're being discriminated against by our friends in Vojvodina. Otherwise, the media strategy that preceded this set of media laws envisioned that we have six regional public media services in Serbia. However, when you did the laws that both SNS and DS voted for, you simply forgot about it. No matter how interested Brussels was that we do not have in our local governments of the television municipality, yet here our political class has shown that it does not even respect the fact that, for example, in the EU, Austria has even nine regional public media services. We still don't have it. Now that we look at it, we are one of the countries that can be praised for the fact that national minorities are extremely represented in our media sphere and respected and should be. But you see, my Shumadins are also discriminated against. We don't have a media service dealing with our regional problems. We don't have a media service dealing with our local problems. You heard a colleague from the United Peasants' Party asking to pay attention to Svrlig, the White Palank. It is simply strange for me that a massive and massive party like the SNS who is all present in our social life and controls everything and sees everything, in the presentations of the MPs of that party never noticed this fact that we have a media darkness in Serbia that has nothing to do with who the opposition is, it already has to do with the fact that we have made the state and the media strategy the way it suits Brussels, and that is that we have no right to intervene and preserve both our media sovereignty and all that is needed to ensure a normal and stable and balanced regional development in Serbia. When you tell some people in Arangelovac, Srlig, the White Palanca that what is happening in their local environment doesn't have to be mediaed, you send them a message that they are superfluous people, that it simply doesn't matter to be there, that the state of Serbia has no interest in supporting them logistically in informational, media and any other content, but it leaves them feeling abandoned, that they can easily go away. And all of this could be seen as some strange anomaly that happened by accident, but it's not random. It is related to that system problem I keep insisting and talking about, which is the wrong electoral party model in Serbia. Because of this, such a massive party and massive, such as the SNS has no MPs who are the national tribunals who see what their problems are and who are only interested in it because the way you progress in such parties is not that your fellow citizens will support you but that you will be sympathetic or not to your party leader. So mass parties with strong leadership structures are something that is both against sovereignty and against democracy and against normal democratic dialogue in society. That is why the electoral system and the party model in Serbia should be changed, and we will be able to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2221	Thank you. Minister of Culture Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2222	I'll answer very briefly. I don't know how much you spoke to me as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Minister of Culture and Information. I think I should answer your speech when you said you only had five minutes as an opposition. If I am not mistaken because in one or two sessions of this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I was an MP, you were an MP from the list of the Serbian Patriotic Union, Mr. Sapic, and so you entered this parliament. If you had stayed in that parliamentary group, I suppose you would have had much more time as an MP for the opposition or government or whatever, depending on the political determination of your political party with which votes, or the votes of the Serbian citizens who voted for the Serbian Patriotic Union, you entered these. You won five minutes by seizing yourself after the election and becoming a stand-alone MP. You have defined yourself as an opposition in this House. That's all I wanted to answer you for. I suppose, perhaps one of your colleagues, or if they think you need answers at all, will explain why the SNS has so many MPs here in parliament, how many votes were won by the president of our country, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who you are talking about occasionally very casually and poorly. It doesn't matter, it's your right as someone representing someone here in parliament, and you will define exactly who after the election and your separation from the Serbian Patriotic Union. Aleksandar Vukic was elected president of the Republic of Serbia in the direct vote of the Serbian citizens he won, so I don't know how many votes he won in the percentages of the second opponent to be considered one of the favourites in the election. I think the difference between the two is about 40% of the vote. That's what I had to answer you because ministers often think they should only talk about their portfolio, and they forget that they are politicians and that they need to respond sometime to the political truths that are being presented in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2223	Thank you. Right to the replica Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2224	Of course, now you've shown us nicely what you were doing here while you were president of parliament. About you and Gordana Komic are equal to how you treated opposition MPs. So, you haven't answered the topic that is very important to this people, which is a question of local and regional public media services, which somehow disappeared all of Serbia, which is not Belgrade and Novi Sad, has led to a situation that is in media darkness. You avoided answering that, but that's why you managed to score points with your party leader whom I didn't even mention by last name, but I was talking about the party model you belong to and who's wrong and hard to burden our social system. What you're saying is that this party has such great and heavy power, it's not slow. I don't even argue that you have a large number of your voters who support you. I don't even argue that you have some things that you do well, but I'm not here with my five minutes that I got because I wanted to be an opposition MP, and I couldn't be in the Serbian Patriotic Union, I'm not here to praise you. I am here to draw attention to the minister's need, as normal ministers do, to deal with what his job is, and not to act as a party major, so that the only representative of the opposition of the Serbian people in this parliament calls it a matter of caution, by chance, not to offend his great character and act, the president of your party, who again is the president of my country. I respect him because he's the president of my country, not because he's the president of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2225	Thank you. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2226	I wish we didn't have any more replicas of you and me. Only when we replicate, I would like to know who I'm replicating with, with someone who represents the citizens of Serbia who voted for the party whose list you came in with or with Milovan Glisic in some new role. If your name is Milvan, I apologize. I really don't know your name, but I know you were on the SPAS list. This would make it really easier for me to know how to address you and how many votes and citizens of Serbia you are exactly representing. About whether after 30 years of politics, I know what MPs are, and I know that I should be able to communicate with them with respect. Not because I individually have a nice or poor opinion of someone, but because I respect all citizens of Serbia who have rounded up the correct political option, because we do not have a political system to vote for someone's name, but to vote for the political lists and for the leaders who represent those lists. So I respect all citizens of Serbia who went to the elections and voted for the offered political options we have in parliament, but also which we do not have because they have not won a 3% censorship, as I also respect those who feel that a different political action should be done. I'm just saying, when I'm with someone, I'd like to know who I'm dealing with, what kind of political program and who it represents in this House. I think I spoke very nicely to you, the fact that I'm a minister doesn't mean I don't have a political attitude and a political opinion and I don't belong to anyone. I belong, of course, to the SNS, I ran on that list and the president of my party and the Republic of Serbia is called Aleksandar Vukic and I don't know what you have to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2227	I thank the Minister of Culture. I think we can figure out a circle of replicas. You are directly called, so I'll give you the right to the replica. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2228	Yeah, you personally called me, you just misnamed me, but you complimented me. I'd like to be the one you think you're dealing with. That's who was on the list and I think it would be the least pleasant thing for you to say to someone, given what lists you've been on. I don't have a problem with that, and I've been on many lists and I've been kicked out of many parties because I didn't like that leadership model and because I've been saying for 30 years that it's the scariest thing that could've happened to Serbia, that we have a model where one man asks everything. It is a model that, even if that man is brilliant, and I don't think he is, we have a serious problem that he is still a human being and if he does, God forbid he opens his eyes tomorrow, we have a problem, not that your party is going to fall apart, it doesn't interest me at all, it would be, maybe, even well, but we have a problem that all state functions will fit, because you, as a culture minister, besides some good things you said and what you do, you always need to express who your party leader is and who's in charge who's asking for everyone in Serbia. This is the problem of our political life, and this is the problem of what other than the SNS are doing, so we come into a situation where we don't have national tribunals in the Assembly, but we have party delegates and we get into a situation where the Assembly today looks like your party's party congress. I will not be surprised that one day your party president will come here to hold our Parliament's sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2229	The word has a minister of culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2230	I have a big dilemma whether or not to continue this controversy with you. I don't know if you understand or pretend you don't understand. You'll help me, but not now by keeping our attention to you and I'm sorry that I somehow managed to draw attention to you, so, in the absence of some other contextal polemics with you from a segment of culture or another set of laws which is why here Minister Vanja Udovic, we're turning around and thinking about whether you, as a politician, would have gone better if the direct elections or elections were what we have, so votes for political options. From my deep political experience, believe me, there is no hope for you in politics, because I passed the elections and was elected mayor of Novi Sad, the direct election, when such a system existed and later in mixed elections, so I was one of the few MPs of the opposition who passed through 2000 on some mixed electoral system and was an MP here, one of the few oppositions, and now on the list of parties led by SNS President Aleksandar Vukic. I don't know what you have, what kind of problem do you have when someone who belongs to the political option of the SNS clearly says who's the party president and what's his name? I know that I have the advantage here, because I know who the president of my party is, and you can't parimate me, so you can say the name of the president of your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2231	This concludes the circle of replicas. We're going back to the agenda. The next speaker is Mr. Djordje Kosanic's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2232	Dear Minister Gojkovic with his associates, the Honorable Minister Udovic with his associates, the Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to try to get the debate back on the table, I hope it will come after us. Let me remind you once again, we have a united debate before us today, so that we know what we are talking about, already mentioned draft laws, I will not read them again, we all know, but at the very beginning, that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all the drafts of the law in this united debate. At the very beginning, my presentation will be focused on the bill to confirm the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the construction of the E-80 highway on the Nis-Medara section. So, the first phase between Nis and Pločnik, and in the time that I have left and which is foreseen for the JS parliamentary group, I will refer to the other draft laws of this united debate. At the very beginning, I must say, and to speak frankly, Serbia is a country that has both stability and security in every sense. At this time of the great global crisis, when many major economies are on their knees, have major economic downturns and this is a real fact, Serbia has the best result. At this point, we have, you will take it yourself, you will estimate whether it's an economic downturn or growth, but I will be a little optimistic and I will say that Serbia is zero, and on the other hand Serbia is about public debt to about 57%. Not returning to a time from earlier years when the public debt of Serbia was over 80%, but what is the result at this point should be said that, say Croatia or Slovenia have over 70% of the public debt. On the other hand, I will also remind you that some very strong European countries, large European countries, have much more public debt than Serbia. We have on the other hand, and that is a fact, and fiscal monetary stability, and Serbia is also a leader in the Western Balkans in bringing foreign investment. If I say that out of the total foreign investment that comes to Serbia, in the Western Balkans, I apologize, over 60% comes to Serbia, and at the end of this year, the figure on foreign investments will be at some level of nearly three billion euros. I have to say that what's a big deal is that no investor, despite this big crisis that has hit the whole world, has given up coming to Serbia. It speaks of Serbia's stability, it speaks of the trust investors have in Serbia. In the past few years, I must say, 350km of highways have been built in Serbia. Again, not returning at a time when roads have been built for 20, 30 years in Serbia, so on the other hand we are building 250km of new highways and Serbia currently has 920km of highways. Also, what is very important when we talk about transportation to Serbia, more than 500km of railway lines have been reconstructed, and for the first time in 20 years, practically two decades, 250m euros have been invested in water traffic. A very important thing for us who come from local self-government, to say that what is a fact, is invested and will invest large funds in the reconstruction of five thousand kilometers of local roads. I don't need to mention here what it means for local self-government, I don't need to mention that many local self-governments don't have the means for such a thing, and I have to say that many of these local roads connect regions and they're 20, 30 kilometers long. Serbia is investing in highways, rail infrastructure, water infrastructure, and these are all large funds that will improve transport in Serbia. When it comes to the E80 highway, it goes practically from Meroshina, Nis, over the Toplička district, Prokuplja, Kursumli, further to Merdar, and it is some 77km long. It connects in the region some half a million inhabitants in the Toplički District, the Niška District and the Pirot County. What is important, Nis connects with Corridor 10 and allows Serbia to exit to the Albanian port of Durres. Here I cannot mention the significant initiative of Mini Schengen, which includes five Western Balkan countries. When I say five Western Balkan countries, I mean Serbia with its southern province, I mean Northern Macedonia, Albania, but also Montenegro and BiH. I must say that this initiative will certainly, in addition to the great benefit it will bring to the Western Balkans, bring all these countries of the Western Balkans closer to the EU. Here when we talk about the route, the first route we're talking about today is 33 kilometers between Nis and Pločnik, and the second route is 44 kilometers between Pločnik and Merdar. The funds are provided from the European Bank for this first share of reconstruction and development. I cannot say here that the EU is one of the largest donors in the past decades in Serbia, with nearly four billion euros in grants. The EU is also one of Serbia's largest investors and creditors. I will also point out here, when we talk about the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, that it provided 1.3 billion euros to the Western Balkans in the previous year. When I say that, I have to say that it was a record in 2019, but in this year it's going to be 1.7 billion. These funds are defined for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. What I'm trying to say here, after the pandemic, and for infrastructure and additional jobs. In the time that I have left, I will briefly refer to two draft laws in this united debate. The first is the bill to confirm the Cinema Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France. This agreement confirms the interest between our two countries in co-operation in the film industry. Minister Gojkovic, you mentioned that so far we have these five agreements, that it is preparing an agreement with the Russian Federation. But what is very important to me, as my colleague, Life Starcevic, mentioned in front of the JS parliamentary group, is that tomorrow is 125 years since the first film was made in France. It speaks of the importance of the French film industry, it speaks of the importance of this contract that we need to sign with France. Otherwise, the agreement allows Serbian authors to use funds worth more than 2.5m euros. The entry into force of this agreement will cease to apply the 1975 Agreement between the former Yugoslavia and France. So once again to point out the importance of this agreement, the importance of how important France is in the field of film industry in the world. When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Japan, it represents a significant contribution to bilateral, economic and financial co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Japan. Serbia and Japan have good political and economic relations. A large number of investors are already in Serbia as far as Japan is concerned. The contract will contribute to additional Japanese investors coming to Serbia. No longer, because the time I have left for the JS parliamentary group I used, I just want to say that the JS parliamentary group will support all the draft laws of this united debate in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2233	I thank the People's MP, George Kosanic. You had 20 seconds left. The next MP is Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2234	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and Information, Honored Ministers of Youth and Sports, Honorable Ministry Representatives, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I must begin with to make a move. What the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information said was that almost every assembly session and every assembly meeting begins with something negative. That's right. Because in society there is always, you know, those groups, mostly political, but one part and media groups, which needs to minimise the work of parliament, which needs to present in the most negative way what the MPs are doing, legitimately elected MPs here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This, unfortunately, is happening at the beginning of each assembly parliament and during the course of Parliament's work. I think the best answer for us Parliamentarians to this situation is exactly what we are doing and doing, and that is intensive and dynamic work. The results are the best answer to every criticism, because then every comment and every criticism should be accepted as a compliment. So it is up to us to continue to do our job in the best interests of citizens and to give the best possible answers to the questions raised before parliament as the highest body of the legislative authority. When it comes to the legal proposals that we are talking about today, first of all, I want to say that the objective is clear – to ensure a stable financing of public service. It is up to us to through the laws to ensure independence in the functioning of public service and that public service can function uninterruptedly. So today we are talking about amendments to the Public Media Services Act, which also provides budget financing for public media services in 2021, given that there is no stable financing of public interest in the field of information. The state must provide public interest in the field of information and this seems to be through public media services regulated by a special law, which has already been discussed, which is the Law on Public Media Services. To remind me of the current Law on Public Media Services and the role of public information for society, its democratisation, the achievement of human, civil and minority rights, as we talk very often here in parliament about minority rights. So the new Public Media Services Act was adopted in 2014. It found that RTS and RTV are public media services, whose role is to achieve public interest in the field of public information. Public interests are achieved through software content, i.e. through respect for the fundamental principle above all, which is the true, timely, professional, impartial informing of Serbian citizens. In doing so, other principles must be respected. When we talk about other principles, I want to quote very precisely what is defined in the law. The law states: “Respect and presentation of basic human rights and freedoms, democratic values of institutions and the promotion of culture of public dialogue; respect for privacy, dignity, respect, honor and other fundamental rights and freedoms of man; respect and promotion of pluralism of political, religious and other ideas and enabling the public to be familiar with these ideas, not serving the interests of individual political parties and religious communities, as well as any other individual political, economic, religious, religious, similar attitude or interest; meeting the need to inform all parts of society without discrimination, taking into account particularly the socially sensitive groups such as children, youth and old, minority groups, persons with disabilities, social and health threats and others; meeting the needs of citizens for programme content, impartially processing of political, historical, social, social, cultural, educational, social, social and social issues. “ Therefore, the basic activity of the public media service in achieving public interest is production, purchase, processing and publishing of radio, TV and multimedia content, particularly informational, educational, cultural and artistic, children's, entertainment-humoristic, religious and other programs that are of public interest to citizens. Media services should promote the values of democratic society, promote and contribute to creating a democratic atmosphere and international and religious tolerance, improve dialogue and preserve the national identity of Serbian people and members of national minorities. It's all very clear and precisely defined by law and it's fully respected and respected. They provide their public function, i.e. role, public and media services with adequate functional organisation, in accordance with the law and responsible use of national frequencies. Starting with the importance that public media services have in preserving and improving the democratic values of society, the Republic of Serbia has defined that the work and position of public media services is regulated by a special law, bringing legislation in this area into line first and foremost with European legislation. And it's very clear -- two public sources, first budget funds, other funds for public media services fees charged through EPS electricity payments. We also have a third source of funding – self-secured funds, part of the assets from the sale of advertising space. At one of the previous sessions, a few days ago, the National Assembly discussed and we adopted a new level of tax for public media services, and then we made it very clear, since there were certain suggestions of some political options when it came to editorial public service policy, when it comes to some political parties being unfairly represented, we said – it is up to us to pass laws and to view as someone who has a control and supervisory role in whether these laws apply. It's not our place to deal with editorial media policy. We should leave that to management, and as far as the program is concerned, we should leave it to the program advice that deals with these issues. But we also asked colleagues that when we talk about RTS, not when it comes to RTS to looking at everything through the prism of information emissions and looking through the prism of political emissions. It's not just a RTS information program and it's not just politics. Let me remind you, RTS is both a scientific and educational and cultural and sports programme, but also a film and documentary programme. RTS, among other things, also has correspondence. I think the RTS at this point has 25 correspondence. How many redactions does RTS have? There are correspondents in America, Brussels, Europe. So, equipment that hasn't been restored for years, which is finally being restored and modernised. Thanks to RTS, among other things, the school programme took place during the pandemic period, which is of particular importance. When we talk about national minorities not being represented on RTS, what was the word, I'm sorry, there are no colleagues who suggested they weren't represented enough, and they have submitted an amendment to make a tax one dinar, I've asked only one question – do you know what Lymet is? He broadcasts, as far as I know, three times on RTS. Is that one dollar enough for only Lime to be broadcast three times a day on RTS? So, we have no problem talking about national minorities being more represented at public service, but let's be realistic and let's not politicize a thing that is not for politicisation, if you want open dialogue and open debate. What can reflect on the quality and extent of production of media content is the fact that the amount of funds allocated annually for the work of public media services is changed every year, as well as the collection of fees and inequality, and we therefore support, the parliamentary group of the SPS, the amendment of the Public Media Services Act, in order to allow funding from the budget in 2021. However, when we talk about the media and when we talk about public service, very often several thesis and several issues are raised, primarily by opposition parliamentary groups, but also by those extraparliamentary, quacks of opposition political parties, and we talk about freedom of the media, and it is said that the media is at the will of the regime, and then there are several essential issues. First, freedom of opinion, freedom of speech and freedom of expression are essential for us to post a democratic society as Serbia today is. If the European Parliamentarians and you ministers know very well, since you participated in inter-party dialogue, that the European Parliamentarians visited REM at the moment when we had just finished the debate and said there were parallel media. Well, wait, if there are parallel media, then how is there no media freedom in Serbia and with what right are they asking the issue of freedom of the media today and not in 2011, when the Verice Barac report was extremely rigid? Why, then, did none of the European parliamentarians ask the question of freedom of the media? And what is it about the regime, if I'm specifically talking about RTS, I repeat it for who knows which time and I will always repeat it – what is there for the regime to say, not the regime, but the ruling coalition, what is there at the will of the ruling coalition? Did the ruling coalition set up one of the RTS editors? Did the ruling coalition appoint a director of RTS? No, I don't. She left it to management, left it to the board of directors, and as for the programming scheme, of course, according to the law, she left it to the programming board. During the inter-party dialogue, we talked, among other things, right before the elections, because these topics were imposed by both the NGO and the opposition, but also from one part of the opposition, which literally made farce and entertainment, and it seemed to them that they could also create a farce and entertainment, they sought open dialogue with parties, parliamentary parties, extraparliamentary parties, but also with representatives of the media that have a national frequency. And there were representatives of REM. They didn't show up, of course. But we have very openly and clearly said, the entire ruling coalition, we have a unique position – we have absolutely no problem with equal representation in the media, as far as we're concerned, here we are, you have a whole media space. A million more times to show up on the media, we can't reach how many times they've appeared at a public service. But it doesn't matter. We don't want to deal with the media's editorial policy. Speaking of information, speaking of politics, then let us conduct thematic debates before the elections. That was our suggestion. We passed the rule when it comes to public service, we adopted recommendations when it comes to commercial television, because you can't order the private sector to edit its program. If you wanted privatisation and if you adopted this Media Privatisation Strategy in 2000 and wanted capitalism, where now do you need to deal with the private sector and edit private media? I think that the Minister of Culture made a good proposal when we talk about the media and when we talk about the transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, it is something that has been said throughout the previous term, that this parliament gets its parliamentary channel and that we should look at technical possibilities, such as a parliamentary channel such as the State Duma, and they follow the activities throughout the day and the tide, but also beyond the tides, so that MPs, MPs, committee presidents, after a session of the committee can attend the parliamentary channel and declare the views, conclusions from the committee's session. But I'm saying, that's a great idea, you just have to look at the possibilities. And in the end, I won't be too long, for a little while I've heard something that in my opinion in some way violates the dignity of the National Assembly and violates the dignity and integrity of every MP. You know, democracy in Serbia comes true in elections and only in elections. Only elections can change Serbia's political course. It is for responsible and serious political parties to accept the results of fair and democratic elections, whether at some point they like it or not. It's democracy. You can't understand it differently and define it differently. The fact that this is the current assembly of parliament, such is the will of the citizens and the clearly expressed will of the voters. I wish the SPS Parliament Club had more parliamentary mandates, but it doesn't. Such was the current will of the voters and we respect it, but we do not allow any way to disrupt the integrity and dignity of the Assembly and the integrity of any of these MPs and MPs sitting in the current assembly that is responsible, seriously and committed to doing their job. When we talk about the electoral system, which is not a topic, believe me, we've been dealing with the electoral system for a long time and during the inter-party dialogue, and there's something that's the essence here, and it seems to me that you don't understand, if you want to change the electoral system, I want to say one thing, the current electoral system, and it's proportionate, it's political reality, the majority electoral system corresponds to majority parties, and then you'd have a diametrically opposive assembly of parliament of what we have today, believe me, and he'd still not like certain political parties. I fully support the minister's proposal to discuss one of the important topics, which is culture, at one of the next sessions of parliament. I don't think that's what we've been working on in the previous session, to schedule a special session that we're going to discuss. At the very end. Since we have a great builder in our parliamentary club, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, I must point out that in 1991, it is very important, firstly, to say that the opposition criticised the way of Nis – Merdare, and I remind you that in 1991, this road entered the European Corridor, so as part of the European Corridor and that today it is part of the European Corridor and that it is good that Europe has given support for the realization of this extremely important project. So, the policy of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to bring down all borders and to open up an economic perspective so that we can all move forward. The time ahead will not be perspective in terms of investment, the private sector, so that we as a public sector must compensate and maintain our economy in order to preserve all those values that we have achieved in previous years as a government and how the ruling coalition in Serbia has achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2235	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from the magistrate Jadranka Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2236	Thank you, Mr. President. During my last presentation here in parliament a few days ago, when I was talking about the bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, which referred to priority projects, I also talked about other areas, and other forms of co-operation between the two countries, including this. I mentioned this very proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement when it came to co-production in the area of cinematography, and then I said that we had a very serious, long, and in a very meaningful and very friendly atmosphere exactly the same conversation at the meeting that I had with Ambassador Jean-Louis Falkoni as President of the Parliamentary Group of Friendships with France in Serbia, Mr Jean-Louis Falkoni, there is no need to underline how pleased I am and how much I support this law, not only as an artist, but also as head of the parliamentary delegation of francophony in the previous meeting, and here I am truly happy, confirmed in this conference. What I would like to point out is that I am glad that this Agreement has been modernised, improved, defined by the rights and obligations of the two sides, that throughout the whole series of issues, not only in artistic matters, but also in financial co-production in all the details, noting firstly and subjects of the bearers of technical realisation, as well as the formation of a bilateral group, i.e. the commission that will be responsible for monitoring this significant co-production. But what seems to me extremely important to our film is that with such a powerful, significant partner, France, who already has an extraordinary position on the subject of not only film, but culture at all, that I am not speaking as special, as I would say, a refined, special style that I am convinced, with our extremely talented artists, actors, directors, writers, writers, writers, bring a new, qualitative production, but also what is important, will draw attention much faster, stronger and more significant, just centralizing the position of Serbian film in Europe. I think that's a big advantage. Someone here mentioned that having such a significant and strong partner, we are truly privileged and we are certainly getting, and I am not saying, I would not ignore the quality of our cinematography that every world cinema is always enriched by new cultures, new ideas and the freshness of the creation of a certain climate. I am extremely pleased that the very minister of French culture was the first, as you have told us, to congratulate you on the appointment of the Minister of Culture and Information, and it does not surprise me, because I was able to follow and see with my eyes through the francophony to what extent the French side now cares about all possible aspects of mutual co-operation. It was, of course, as you, Minister Gojkovic, understood, especially from the visit of President McCron and from the extremely good co-operation of our president and French president, and through the Francophony I had the opportunity to see many hands given by France, much desire to keep one quiet, one distance that existed between our two countries beyond, not to say that I personally, and I also know to many citizens that some of France's behaviours were painful to us, but this is through culture an opportunity to restore now everything that binds the two countries, both politically and economically, and particularly culturally. With great joy, I will support this bill. I have to look back, I'm very glad, Minister Gojkovic, for talking about Kolartz, who we all care about very much, and there is no music artist who doesn't follow what's going on with Kolartz and who doesn't care about solving Kolarca's problem. I just have a few things to say right now, and thank you for saying that you have to look at this problem from all sides, realistically, the way it is. If you could just... I believe you have more information than I do. I don't think there's any explanation in the public what really happened in 2011 with the change of the Employment Act. In particular, there's a story going through the Internet that, in particular, I'm going to cut it short with my dictionary to say, exactly the situation with Kolarac somehow, not only because of Kovid, but especially because of the negligentness, these floscules that have been repeated over and over and over again by this authority towards culture, which is absolutely not true, that this situation in which Kolarac has been highlighted now in recent years, so I'd be glad to explain it. I've performed on Kolaraca countless times myself. I've had ten solo concerts, and I stress that, because in classical music, it's not easy to fill up a ten-time Kolarac, and I've been on the market, which means I've been paying for the O.R. myself. By the way, it's not too bad for the public that in various political atmospheres some artists were privileged and had an organization at Kolarca by the state. I wasn't among them, I wasn't complaining, everything was right, my halls were full, but I really care about it, and Kolarac I feel like all the artists here in Serbia as a member of the family, for which absolutely everything we can do we have to do. I know all the employees there. With Kolarac I would like to take the opportunity to add the state of the music youth, which is also in a very difficult position, an exceptional institution where we grew up. You, Minister Gojkovic, have said perfectly that we need to make a plan and a programme very well designed and clear for education of children and young people, and it seems to me that right through the music youth and through the care of this present situation where the music youth is, we can. We are here generations who grew up on Serbian Music Youth programs. I know I've left a little bit of the topic, but let me just have something else I think and I feel it would be fair, and it concerns one of my messages to you personally, Minister Gojkovic, because my sense of justice says it would be wrong for me not to say it. The previous meeting was a difficult call for both MPs and all employees in parliament services, especially for you who led parliament. A lot of extreme situations, a lot of provocations, a lot of getting into the cabinet, a lot of work disturbances, a lot of unpredictable situations you've been facing and not talking about some weird exhibits that have been put in here. I believe whoever's honest had to admire how you've dealt with all these situations, and probably only you know how you felt. I can only assume what would have happened to me if it had been in front of me. On the other hand, I had the honour of being in an important very small delegation that you led during our visit to China, a parliamentary one, and where I became convinced on the spot of how much knowledge, sacrifice, engagement and desire that at all times the best you could react in the best interests of our country. I congratulate you from your heart on that. I have no doubt that as someone who is now running this important and often very aggressive resort, the Ministry of Culture... and in public is constantly forgotten - and informing. It was my wish to attach this information to another ministry. I think that culture would live there a lot more and have more space to realize, but I wish you and I have no doubt that you will have a lot of success in running this difficult and responsible resort. Every good thing and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2237	Thank you. Mayo, I don't know what to call you - Vice President, Minister or President, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2238	Thank you very much. Call me whatever you want, give me a chance to say something and look back at the presentation of Jadranka Jovanovic's letter. In some systems, in some countries when you have one function, your whole life is then called by that function, whether you continue to perform it or not. Yes, this resort is an extremely demanding resort and it's extremely difficult to run and I can say that I'm a person who's hard to surprise, but I'm surprised how many problems there are here that have to be systemically solved to make it better in culture. It is only now that I see how much less important stories are about how much the percentage is allocated to culture in relation to the budget of a country, and it is much more important, and it is not talked about in public, or in those who praise, or in those who criticise things in this portfolio and in the political life of Serbia at all, what is this money spent on. We are at least as a society willing to talk about the necessary reforms. No one wants to talk about it, because no one has the courage to change certain things because changing things isn't popular, and people today like to talk only about popular, short and fast solutions, because we're witnessing in the XXI century that everything that's true is desirable because it doesn't require much time, not a lot of investment, and not a lot of thinking about it. We are all victims of false news, or false news, so any problem you touch can be faced with the fact that part of the public already has an opinion, not knowing the essence and content. That's what I'm saying in general. I'm not talking about certain parts. Thank you for supporting and supporting the Agreement with the French Republic in the area of cinematography. It's an extremely important agreement. I don't know how much we all realize that this is an important agreement with a single country whose culture is a question of identity and survival in times when Anglo-Saxon culture is something that prevails in the world, and that is why it is important that we join in all fields of culture with those countries that put their national culture first, and I know how much you've done as the president of a delegation that our parliament represented in francophony and I wish you a lot of success in your work as president of the Parliament's group of friendships with them. As for the questions raised in front of all of us, which is about Ilija Kolarca's task, I can only repeat and say that it is not true that the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does not allocate funds for their work. In accordance with the laws which define borrowing, but also within the framework of Article 77. The Culture Act in general I can say that the programme allocated funds in 2020 to competitions in the field of music, in the field of literature, this year I suppose no funds were withdrawn because of the situation, the visual arts, but what is most said is these current expenditures and the expenditures of the debt and in the framework of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget at 4.5 million, and if we look at the last four years, that is 18,600,000 dinars for current expenditures and debt expenditures. In that forest, some information and misinformation is given the impression that the problem of this task arose several months ago or this year. I'm asking you to focus on this and Kolarce's debt for many years already has a problem with regular funding. As Minister of Culture and Information, I say, I have spoken and offered one important, significant and good solution to Kolarce's task. I don't agree with that interpretation the warden gave yesterday, the day before yesterday in her press address because the Ministry is waiting for her. The ministry is awaiting the board of directors of Kolarce's task to accept this proposal, to declare the task as an institution of exceptional importance for the Republic of Serbia, and thus do not endanger the borrowing and that we provide them with funding for the survival of Kolarc's responsibility and that the Republic of Serbia has entrusted them with important tasks. I say, if we're talking about the French model, those within the Ministry of Culture and Information have a special portfolio dedicated to growing a new audience, i.e. working with younger generations. I think that Kolarce's responsibility can fully respond to these tasks, and that would not endanger the essence of the creation of the Kolarcek Foundation, which is both cultural and educational in any way, and would solve a lasting problem of survival in Kolarce's debt. There is no man in Serbia who does not think as much as I do and there is no one who does not want to commit himself to solving this problem, and this problem can be solved from month to month, but we all have to commit ourselves to solving, forever, the problems of financing Kolarce's debt, and that is the only good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2239	Thank you. The word is Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2240	Thank you. Dear President, honourable MPs, respected minister and esteemed guests, in my presentation today, I would like to touch on the subject of the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Media Services. The SPS parliamentary group considers that the conditions for this supplement to be supported have been met. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal, but I would still like to underline the importance of public media services, as well as media in general, which they have in society and as an artist, a music artist, I will speak from a sociological and cultural angle that will support the role of the media they have, when it comes to the affirmation of culture, science, art and education. I will not repeat myself, because we all know that public media services are institutions that must possess independence from the source of their funding, as well as the independence of editorial policy and that the public, i.e. auditorium, is the body to which public media services are responsible for their work, since they belong to citizens. Public media services should play a significant role in the process of affirmation of science and culture and public service is expected to be the institution of culture in the right sense, which in this year the public media service justified through co-operation with the Ministry of Education, by enabling education of children when it was not possible to teach in schools. We are all aware, of course, that the modern media era is reflected in the idea of market capitalism and, regardless of all these global flows, digital revolutions and technological achievements, the media should always, in addition to the role of political and economic institutions, play an enlightening role that, as important to society, also brings out social psychologists when they talk about socialisation agents both children and adults. In this sense, besides school, family and peers and media are as a socialization agent very important in providing knowledge, forming taste, promoting science, preserving tradition and cultural heritage. Of course, it is understandable that financial stability is the best thing that attracts the attention of the widest audience and that in such a media atmosphere, where the priority is to provide instant entertainment, the process of affirmation of culture, science and art is unfortunately not a priority. I would say that in this respect, public media services, as the only institutions that should not be guided by commercial objectives, are of paramount importance to our society and should therefore attach priority to the programme policy to the appropriate social needs and objectives, as well as to the importance and overall budgeting by the state. Since at this point in our development there is no possibility that, through the payment of the subscription, we have already voted to increase the subscription, we have provided sufficient resources for normal functioning of the public media service, as is the case in some of the most developed countries of Europe, where funding is provided from the subscription of citizens, a small part from the state budget, and the smallest part from the commercial content. It is the state that should find an adequate financial framework for the smooth functioning of public media services just through the culture and information budget. Certainly, at a time when the state economically strengthens and the wage power of the population increases, there would be a reduction in the state budget to finance public media services. At the same time, I believe that it should work on the most efficient employment of all the resources and capacities that public media services possess, as well as a whole body of professionals who are absolutely more than ready and able to produce high quality facilities which, in addition to showing their domestic audiences, could also offer on foreign markets, which is an important source of revenue for some of the major European houses, i.e. public media services. Priority content concerning the general interest of citizens, such as sports events involving our country's national team, is unacceptable that more than half of the citizens are unable to escort because in commercial competition to buy the right to transfer the game, such as our football state team, our public media service, which is present in most Serbian homes, simply does not have enough resources to ensure the rights to transfer such events. To point out once again the essence of the existence of public services, I would quote Professor Valjanovski here, who says: “From everything that is known today about public service broadcasting, what it means, what it is in practice, it can be concluded that it is the most developed media model, which, by its size, structure and quality, justifies its existence. Public media service is the foundation of the spirit of citizenship and the bearer of energy progress. The important feature of the public service that many analysts are studying today is its integral and emancipatory role." I would briefly refer to the research carried out, public opinion research, which concerned the structures of the broadcasting time of television with national frequency and citizens' opinions on the most significant categories of public interest in the field of information. The main objective of the survey was to establish the degree of representation of the cultural and scientific and educational programme, as well as what types of content in the genre structure citizens mark as the most relevant categories in achieving public interest in the field of public information. Citizens marked the cultural, artistic, scientific and educational programme as the most significant categories of public interest satisfaction, followed by categories of work, economy and politics. Studies related to the showtime have shown that the participation of scientific and cultural programmes, as well as programmes for children on certain commercial televisions with national frequencies, was then and now at the level of a statistical error, which is a fact that needs to be changed and corrected as soon as possible. For the sake of balance in the media sky, we need to have more quality cultural and educational content for all age groups, but we especially lack more educational and cultural entertainment programs for children who would create positive trends among children and young people and give good examples and messages, which would raise the overall level of culture and education. On this occasion, I would like to commend and support the proposal to potentially, in accordance with technical possibilities, open a separate channel that would carry Parliament's sessions and where an additional space would be opened, a large space for creating cultural content on the RTS channel. In this way everyone would benefit both states and citizens, but also artists different creative creators, who would gain space in which they could express themselves and locate potential consummations of their content. As a music artist, I must rely on Mrs Jadranka Jovanovic's presentation and on your Mrs Gojkovic's subject "Kolarca". I think it is extremely important to find a legal framework in which the financing and survival of Kolarca would be ensured, because I, like many artists, have practically grown up on Kolarca and have acquired many artistic skills, playing and listening to some of the magnificent concerts that happened there. Kolarac is not only classical music, but is a serious institution of culture that offers many other quality content to all our citizens. The music youth is also one topic to be dedicated to but I hope that in some more constructive discussions in the future we will discuss this on the subject. All I've said is that it is closely and very closely linked to the budget for the culture and information sector and I will take this opportunity to express my hope and trust in your work and the work of your team, because I have had the opportunity to learn about your credentials towards culture and art, and I hope that you will be able to act on the status of culture that it should have in our society. We're all here together to help you team up a culture on a pedestal that should have, given the importance it has in every society at global level. With all the excitement that we all felt that Serbia had become an economically developed country in economic terms, I was drawn up by the attention that economic success did not necessarily accompany investment in the sector of culture and information per capita, regardless of the general increase in the budget for the culture and art sector. I think that if we are the first or better in Europe for economic growth, it should be logical that we are really still working on improving the budget for culture and art, because it is just one of the steps that we should take on that path. Of course, you are aware that everything comes from funding, even distributions, as you yourself mentioned. The current 15 euro per capita is a good and better, much better starting position than before, but we are still compared to the countries in the region, we have not yet reached them, because, let's say, Croatia allocated 43 euros in 2019, Hungary 39, Montenegro 36, Northern Macedonia 28. Of course, I'm sure we'll work together in the future. In order for our country, where Europe's first civilization came from, and this is Vinca, the land of the Holy Sava, of Miroslav's Gospel, the land of the Wolf's alphabet, the Nobel laureate of Ivo Andric, to believe that as such, we deserve a high place on the pedestal in the liquids of European culture. I would like at the moment when we come to the vote of Serbia's potential entry into the EU all MPs of all parliaments who vote for that decision to support and say that we are absolute partners, equal partners when it comes to investing and understanding culture in society. I think that it should be able to be one of the self-sustainable resellers, perhaps, as you yourself have mentioned, that culture has contributed extremely to our country in the last few years, not only in terms of cultural content but also in terms of financial effects. Because, let's say, one Germany with which, of course, we can't reasonably compare at this point, but their craftsmanship, which makes culture and the creative industry, is 168 billion euros a year, but their budget is fine, a billion euros and we can't compare with that, but I think we should think in a similar way of making culture one of the self-sustainable resors. I consider it all of the above essential to ensure the necessary financing of public media services by the state, as an important link to raising the cultural level of society, as well as to safeguard the cultural heritage of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of all citizens of our citizens, who are somewhere in the debate. I am convinced that our views on cultural development are in line and that at future constructive sessions we will have these discussions that could help develop culture, where we will all together and colleagues from the cultural sector in this Parliament, that we will all give some of our experiences, because I can speak for myself as someone who is inside, who comes from the culture of art, I can confirm that there are both good and bad sides when you are engaged in artistic action and when you have the support of institutions, when you do not have it. I can say that some of the few who have been in my career so far are not the only ones, but one of them has just been the SPS, which is why I am here today in this House, who have given me a chance to pass on my experiences and to discuss together important issues for the development of culture in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2241	Thank you. Now, in accordance with article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour. Marijan Risticevic has to wait, the next speaker is after the break. We'll continue at 3:10 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's continue our work. National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2243	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, from today's proposals as someone who lives in India and as someone who started building an industrial zone with Tojo Tyres and set up a cornerstone for the construction of a tire factory, of course I support the agreement with Japan. The interest of my municipality, the interest of the environment, is that this investment is being realised. Let me remind you. Thanks to my being a bit strange and funny in 2001, not asking for anything for myself, but looking for services for my municipality, today exports from the Indji municipality are worth more than exports from all over Montenegro. When Japanese investment is realised it will almost be twice as much exports from the Indji municipality as the whole of Montenegro. I'm saying that those who regard these foreign investors almost as enemies and opponents know that they all perform as domestic firms and that these foreign investments are favourable to us for the next reason - because each of the foreign investors, including Tojo Tyres, brings us a piece of the market first. They find buyers for their goods, and thus we provide salaries not for workers who work only in these factories, but also for the public sector who often can afford more money than those who have produced money. I also support the highway to Merdar. I think it's about time we walked across Albania. Mechanization is still a miracle. There are various mechanisms. We will one day distinguish with the Albanians. I'm for demarcation. Why do I say that? It's not even against the constitution. One day we'll be able to distinguish with them. The question is which day and at which point? I'm pushing for it to be on the coast by political means and I think it's legitimate. I think it's past time, and these outsiders need to know that they cannot reduce Serbia and see Serbia as a small Montenegro. It is past when we have three seas to burn that three Moravas and we will no longer allow Serbia to be under pressure from the outside, and the support within they have in these unfortunates is reduced. I also support this agreement because of Albanians because if we bind them to their path to Europe, where they work, where they run, and I don't know why Europe doesn't bomb itself, because more Albanians have moved out lately since they were present than during the 1998 and 1999 NATO pacts and wars, so as long as we tie them up to have to go through Serbia, they have to behave differently towards Serbs. This highway connects not only Albanians with Europe, but connects Serbs throughout Serbia's territory. Those who object to this highway forget that the Serbs continue to live on KIM and that more and more will live on. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Media Service is concerned, I have a slightly different view. I wouldn't give them any money. It's a good thing this bill says that in 2021, the government will decide by its act. Why do I say that? Because RTS pays mostly poor people in two ways. One way was the count, the fee on the count - 299 dinars. The other way is the budget. Who's filling the budget? A budget mostly full of poor people. They're not in the Maldives, and they don't milk caviar on people's bread. They're here, they're buyers. They don't make money out. They spend it on self-services. The moment the cash register calls the fiscal bill, taxes are charged. All previous taxes are deductible items, etc. The real customer pays the customer, the consumer when he enters the supermarket, when the gas at the pump, etc. They're filling the budget. So they paid the fee on the count. Now they're funding RTS for the second time through the budget. I'm not against having a public media service, but I'm willing to let them walk a little bit on their own, not to rock them all the time. They weren't born yesterday. I'm in favour of them having some commercial incomes a little higher, and I'll explain to you that citizens often pay their subscription third time. As a subscriber to Total, in Belgrade it is SBB, for the third time I pay RTS. There are three numbers, and the yellow bukke censors me. They call me on the show so they cancel me, like, we'll call you when it comes to agriculture because two opposition champions didn't want to take part in the show with me, so they cancel me for the evening, no matter what I pay them on three counts of fees. I'm also paying through budget tax. I'm also paying through Total. It's almost amazing that RTS is acting so out of control. I'll give you an example. Imagine that I, as a farmer, produce agricultural products, vegetables, fruits, cereals, bring to the market and I know the merchant for free, the distributor. Here's my product, so you earn, take the money, etc. Is there one of you who would agree to that? Is there anyone who would produce something for free for a trader or a distributor? There is someone in Serbia who does that. It's RTS. On the SBB operator, on the cable are the most viewed programs of RTS. Serbian Radio Television is producing a program. He must be making it. Various entertainment emissions, various cultural emissions, information emissions, series, movies, etc. It's all broadcast by the SBB for free. He doesn't pay them anything. So they got a finished product that was made by editors, cameramen, screenwriters, etc., and make-up guys. So, all of these nerds get free. So, I don't know why RTS doesn't rebel, he says -- you know what, you SBBs are charging a subscription. So I'm three times funding RTS, like most citizens who watch through cable or through Total. We pay three times, once on the count, twice through the budget, and three times we pay through SBB's subscription. What's the SBB doing with the subscription? I'll explain. He doesn't pay RTS anything, and when RTS doesn't pay anything, he doesn't pay any channels with national frequency, regional or local. By the way, I don't know, the gentleman's not here right now, to tell him that his friends from 2012, when they tried to save Tadic, that his friends shared frequencies, not us. All national frequencies have been shared by Democrats, regional, local. You couldn't have gotten that as opposition, which is probably what Djukanovic will say because he could only have on the radio Focus to say something. I'm so sorry the gentleman isn't here because he was talking about local and all these frequencies. What's the SBB doing? None of the local, regional, national television pays. Why don't these televisions with a national frequency get in the way? These private ones don't object because they don't object to RTS, because if they rebel, they'll shut them out of the cable, so half of Serbia won't see them. That's why poor people have to keep their mouths shut. If they have to keep quiet, we don't have to keep quiet. We've passed laws, and we've passed the Electronic Media Act. Two ways to choke the domestic media. The domestic media is paying REM everything. These cross-border channels don't pay anything. The SBB has its cross-border channels. Radio TV Serbia pays nothing for their product, and other media with national, regional or local frequencies pay nothing, but, behold, wonders, from those subscriptions paid by citizens, they pay their cross-border channels, a media service for re-emission. What's re-emitting? Re-emission is at the same time taking over from abroad without change, termination, etc. On the one hand, they put in Serbian commercials and thus take bread to domestic media that pay nothing and domestic media that have to give them properties. So they took the bread from their mouths by taking the words, and they have to pay REM a fee, which they don't have to. Then the SBB pays its cross-border channels by more than one euro per user, and they have, I think, 900,000 users. So probably "N1" TV, "Nova S", "Sport clubs" and 29 channels receive three, four euros per user, or several million euros, and thus the subscription is pumped. Since the subscription, the most visible channels, which are national channels, are getting nothing. The visibility of domestic channels on SBB is certainly over 80%, this sher can easily be calculated. And for the production of this RTS program, he doesn't ask for compensation at all. Well, it's nice, it's easy to hang on a state boob. What they can't take from the School, Gilas, etc. They take it from the people. Now it is time for the people to be a little bit, that the people, the common man, are worthy of respect, that he too may be honored. They're worthy of that respect, they need to be distributed. The school's got two planes, people. He's got two Falcons. He also had it when ministers in the government, minors, crashed out of the air to the ground because of a faulty falkone. He's got two planes. We're oily geese tails. So it's time for RTS to stand on its feet, walk and try in a commercial way to do business, that is to ask for his product that these place wages. They don't have a warrant to do that. The intention to regulate the REM market is gone and to say, Article 27 on advertising says cross-border channels can only broadcast ads that are part of the original programme abroad. You're telling me that Fox flies in America advertises "The Deer Beer", "The Beers of Squawks", "The Diamond", etc.? Of course those commercials are coming in. So directly to those who use the free program take another bread out of their mouth, because they don't have marketing because part of the marketing goes like that. How long are we going to put up with this? Because they have isolated someone in Brussels, and they say, "There are no independent, free media." What are independent, free media controlled by politicians? It's like when Gilas had an independent media called "Pres", so he was a small owner, so they say, "Now we'll lead the other media." As politicians release other media, it's so familiar to me, I've seen it before. So, I watched "BK TV," it goes with guns, closes one TV, lets another. They think we've forgotten what we've been doing with the media. Then Pajtic says - one national frequency should be taken by these TVs and given to "New" or "N1" television. We didn't share those frequencies, we just shared them with Pajtic and his crew, so they didn't share well, so now they'd be a bit of an opposition to redistribute, and we're acting like let's not touch them, they'll complain to Brussels again that there's no independent and free media. What are they independent of? The opposition media are not independent media, but are under the control of the opposition in various ways and we watch it every day. And they will say, "All that is under their control is free, and all that is not under their control is not free." So, RTS, don't do my wife there, do Borkova, I'm censored there in multiple ways. You can only see me here in the Assembly and nowhere else. If I make a statement about harvest shortages and they censor themselves, they say - we won't let the man off the farm. Thank you so much for not letting me go, I'm probably going to grow in the nation's ratings. I'm telling you that the government, we're going to adopt this law, be careful and that RTS doesn't give money, as long as it doesn't make them behave commercially, and until they ask the SBB to pay their product, their program, and in that way other media with national, regional and local frequencies will force that same SBB house, that fat goose, where we no longer oil their tails, will make them distribute the money properly, and the domestic media will get part of the cake, and thus release ordinary citizens of excessive taxes and fees for RTS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2244	Thank you. The word is by Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2245	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Lawmakers of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are always for infrastructure laws and what will improve the overall network of roads in our country, because this means that you will improve the chances that all citizens of this country live better, better and get a chance to present their ideas in business and all other spheres in the best possible way, and thus to create quality conditions for citizens of this country to have a better and better quality life. Also, it is very important that this part of the media is very important, and we have just heard that citizens are the ones paying from their home, family budget subscription for public service and should be presented at that service in that area in which they participate in this planning and budgeting of public service. This means that we believe that public service should have much more focus on the culture of diversity, that in the programme, not only by television, but also by working, the platform of public service is much more content from the diversity of the cultural spectrum of the Serbian state, i.e. the representation of all peoples and all national communities. What we could see, what is present today on RTS programmes, is that it is very modest, that this applies to all the few shows that you can see so essentially, that there are content concerning national minorities, possibly the Citizen, sometimes the Square of the Circle, and everything else is essentially not dedicated enough to affirming cultures and content of all those national communities that make up 30% of the total population of this country, and with a 30% share of the public service. Also, when it comes to redistribution in the Bosnian language, it was not only considered a matter of language, but contentically, right now, we believe that all national communities and Bosniaks should be much more represented with their RTS newsrooms. It's not enough just "Limet", it's not enough just to represent one culture, one people, and only by presenting in the language of that people what they are official information. It is much more important that we inaugurate what is beauty and what is the wealth of the state of Serbia, with all those spectrum of different cultural proselytes of our entire country and the RTS programme. It would also be very correct if we had a religious programme on RTS, since we live in a country where citizens claim to be believers, I don't see any reason why we wouldn't have as much as possible, or to the extent that it's minimally, a religious programme that we don't have today. Regardless, and we don't have a quality readout for a religious program, except for that religious calendar, we absolutely don't have any other content. Today, the minister spoke of some other times when we grew up, me and many other generations, along with some quality programs. I remember the school and education programme, which Ibrahim Hadzic, which was most likely one of the most quality school programmes in Europe of the time. It might be a matrix on which to build, in fact, fertilize, fight what is a ham, which is a spine, and what our generations grow up on. Only with a high-quality school education program can we build quality generations. Unfortunately, we live in a period when the media that creates awareness to the young generation, when public service like no other, has to invest much more to make these generations much more profitable in this quality sense. We need as many of these shows as possible from the school educational program, such as "Cultural Log", which is a special quality on the whole public service. Such a matrix would probably be as useful as possible. Also, when we talk about public service, we often forget the radio. He was doing something that was really quality and with the longest tradition, and it is especially important to highlight the programming schemes of Radio Belgrade 1 and 2, which kept that matrix of quality, cultural, artistic, educated programme. It's something that maybe, and the television program was supposed to be seen and taken over as a matrix. As far as RTS is concerned, it might be good for me, if RTS's editorial policy were a little bit more visible to the editorial policy of the Rado Television of Vojvodina, which is even on its platform, on its website it has shown in the languages of national minorities, or minority nations the overall content, without talking about it, and there are a lot more shows in the programme that treat culture, art, heritage, tradition, minority peoples, and that's what makes Vojvodina's special brand. I think that all of Serbia, such as that, is consumed by such differences and that it should and should be much more of such content, and in fact, especially if we have such an example that is of quality with RTS, we should also transfer it to the public service of RTS, so that in such an environment we can do much more, especially because our education is set aside, and we have been expelled from school by many quality writers who belong to other peoples, other cultures, who live among ourselves. Perhaps television and this school education program are the only way for our children today to meet Ivan Cankar and Krleža and many other writers who have been kicked out of the program and in this way we have stayed, and those generations that are growing up, in fact remain mutilated for a great cultural experience, and especially the experience that has affected the building of the consciousness and mentality of all of our peoples. So this would be a good introduction, and let's say in the reform and reconstruction of the entire public service, we go and we respect these differences as much as possible to get to what is a picture of the people who give their finances the opportunity to simply exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2246	Thank you. National MP Bratimir Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2247	Mr. President, respected Minister Vanja, respected Minister Majo and members of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are starting a new era for Toplice by building the Nis-Pločnik highway. So, a road between Nis and Pločnik of 33km will cost about 250m euros and, as far as we can see, that the funds via the World Bank and donors are provided for the first stage of highway construction. The Freedom Toplice deserved one such project, a capital project, such as the highway, to pass through the Toplice long ago, because as far as we know, we have to remind ourselves, and what our country president says, the hero's Toplice has always been in the front lines when it comes to uprisings, wars and all the troubles that followed Serbia. The spa was in the front row and gave its best to free the Republic of Serbia. We know today that Toplice has about 85,000 inhabitants, unfortunately a large population migration from that area, and we know that in recent times it has had more than 150 thousand inhabitants. The construction of this highway will create opportunities and great preconditions for the development of Toplice, because we have to admit that previous authorities have not bothered to return to Toplice what is given to their country and what it has regularly invested through human resources. Only the government, headed by the president of the state, who is today caring for and taking care of the even development of the Republic of Serbia, is one of the most beautiful parts in Serbia, rarely where you have three baths in the area of 20km, such as the Break of Banja, Lukovska Banja and, fortunately, Kursumliska Banja is one of the oldest spas in Europe and will again experience a boom, as it has been completely neglected. Thanks to the president of the state, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, new conditions are being created for the development of the Toplice and the possibility of developing the economy, as one facility such as the highway will allow investors to invest much more in Toplice, and hence the production that takes place in Toplica will quickly reach their markets and its customers. On the administrative line of the municipality of Kursumli is bordered by KIM 105km. It takes a lot of investment, because the population has moved out of these areas. If road construction were to be approached, I believe that a good part of the population would return to their places of birth, where their ancestors were born, so that they could continue with certain production and that they could live on. Serbia's development programme from 2020 to 2025, which I particularly look forward to for my township of Panteleus, which will get from 12 rural settlements 10 what they need most, which is water and sewerage, which today is missing and we hope that this programme will fully achieve it. What I would like, in addition to sewers and water, and there will be plants for water processing and water treatment, because the city of Nis, the city of 300 thousand inhabitants, is not processing a single liter of waste water and it will dramatically change and our rivers will be in a completely different status. What I want to remind you, I see a Mr. from the Ministry, in that program that exists and is determined, from 2020 to 2025, I think we should get the strength and find space that, I'm sorry that Minister Mali isn't here but still, I hope he's being transferred, one object that means a lot to two districts, such as the Selova dam, which has been standing for decades and has ended over 80%. It would be of great benefit to the Toplički and Nisavski district, because simple water supply would be provided for the next 300 years and the population should not think about it. In addition to water supply, the Toplica River, which is causing huge damage from Kursumlia to Nis, would be regulated and would be of great benefit to the population. I think it's possible to find the means to bring this dam to an end, so it can serve its purpose, because 80% of the funds invested are large funds and should be brought to an end. I have another request for a Minister of Industry. One of the oldest mineral waters in the Balkans "Milan Toplica" has been standing for decades and it is not clear why this does not start, because we know that at least 50 of these could live if not 100 families, which is one mineral water that was known beyond the borders of the old Yugoslavia. And today the water goes to Toplice, there is no one to process it. I don't know why it's so much. The government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the economy minister, could do something about the plan, to drive the production and put it into operation, so that citizens can live on it. I am particularly pleased that the Minister of Youth and Sports is here, where I can present one of the needs of the city's Pantelius municipality, which the minister certainly knows. Namely, we have one of the best flight paths in the world. It's down to three of the best paragliding trails in the world. We know that in 2017 we managed to organize the World Cup from that track, and we also received the European Championship, it was to be held in 2020. Unfortunately, because of the pandemic and this evil that hit us, it was delayed for 2022. I'm sure it will be held, and besides that, the World Cup is on its way. We lack the way to that flight path and ask the Minister to, together with the town of Nis, together with the municipality of Panteleus, try to do so, with the help of other ministries, such as the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Tourism. The projects exist, everything exists, everyone to help build that path, because it would turn the picture of the Panteli and the city of Nis. These would be some of my demands. I know the minister knows what I'm talking about, because he was taking part in all of this. What I cannot take away as a man by the negative impression that is happening in this country is the vulgar and inhumane behaviour of certain people, I have no other expression, according to the family of President Alexander Vukic, according to his children, Daniel, Milic and Vukan, and especially to Mother Angelina, who has done nothing to anyone in this country, she simply gave birth to two sons who are proud of this country, but are using such vulgar, primitive and simple expressions, that I simply can't believe. Nowhere in the world will you be the president of the state, one institution you can threaten and that it can do that to anyone when it comes to memory. I think the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia should start to act and protect the institution of the president of the state, because this is not going anywhere. In the voting day we will certainly support today's agenda and our MP group "Alexander Vukic – For our children" will certainly vote for these proposals. I thank you for your attention and for living Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2248	The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2249	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, Minister Udovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the subject of today's agenda, I will speak with the aspect of someone who, together with my fellows and colleagues here in parliament, supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia and supports all the efforts of the President of the Republic, Mr Vukic, to modernise our country in a dynamic way, to realise economic reforms and that our country has a better geopolitical position from day to day, which has been coming from the hands of the past few years, especially since 2014, since President Vukic became Prime Minister and when in fact there has been these key changes in our country's state policy and when our country has started to strengthen at all levels, especially at the economic, military, social level, but also at the level of international relations and international policies. That is why today we can talk about an agreement that will help build the highway from Nis, via Merdar, to Pristina. This is what will be the key result of our country's and our president's policy, which is that it will provide primarily one stability in the region, to ensure that the policy of those highest civilization values and achievements, which our president has been behind for years, is a free flow of goods, people and capital. These are economic freedoms and that is, in fact, the precondition that our country can progress, of course, in addition to what it has become in the past few years, and that is the economic leader of this region, and that is also the political leader and country that has all the preconditions to be part and full member of the EU, which is the ultimate strategic goal and result of our country's policy. Why is it important to build this car road? My colleague Marijan Rističević noted well and said, of course, because of all those who criticise, and it is really very difficult to explain that someone can from a rational point of view criticise road construction, railway construction, airport construction, infrastructure building. It is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, for people to say -- here's the bridge, this is Corridor 10, here's what it looks like in the colors of the Serbian flag, that it will be bad for something like this to appear tomorrow on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, confirming in another way the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, confirming what it is to be the politics of President Vukic, it is primarily the maintenance of life, priority of our people, the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, their rights, the security of our people, but the preservation of cultural historical, religious and every other heritage. The question of our country's sovereignty is, in fact, – will we be able to make conditions for our people to survive in Kosovo and Metohija, whether we will make conditions for it to survive economically, that it develops economically, that it employs people, that our people can safely go to their fields, our children to go safely to their schools, and that we can only do so by building the infrastructure, which we will build their roads and what we will do for the sake of central Serbia, but also for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, instead of 500m euros in goods and services to export a billion euros in goods and services, which means that we are creating an environment and conditions for as many of our citizens, especially Serbs to return to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, given that the known fact and I think that the shame is not only of the European Union, but also of the International Community that it is only since the war ended in 1999, i. i.i.i.e.e. But President Vukic defined a clear policy that we want to ensure the conditions for these people to return there, to have as many children in schools in Kosovo and Metohija as possible, to have as much work in Kosovo and Metohija as possible, to have conditions for the quality and dignity of the lives of our citizens, and, in parallel, to fight internationally, to fight for our Kosovo and the Metohija and to fight for our citizens. Feel free to say we're doing it. We succeed because the president signed the Washington Agreement on September 4th, which after decades, shows that Serbia can carry, not only on economic victories, but also on diplomatic victories. It is an agreement that showed that it is possible for a small country that, in 2012, was absolutely economically devastated, and that is the product and result of the wrong economic policy, the disastrous economic policy, the privatisations that took place from 2000 to 2012, the product of wealth of one free to say "kimril" in power, which absolutely did not take care of the interests of the state, did not know what the state was and did not take care of the interests of our people, but itself. Since then, we have one policy and a president who has a vision that knows that only by hard work, only great commitment and wisdom, we can reach a position for Serbia to be respected, that Serbia is what it is today, a reliable partner of the European Union, a reliable partner of the United States, a reliable partner of the People's Republic of China, but as far as we can see today, given these agreements, a reliable partner of the Republic of France, Japan, countries with which Serbia has almost a few decades of no relationship, and now we are talking about a strategic partnership with France, signed 22 agreements, increasing their penetration on the economic plan, here in Serbia, of course, resulting in political support, support at international level and in international multilateral organisations, and as far as we can see today, support and in the field of culture, support and co-operation in cinema, which is the result, in fact, of which is the visions of President Vucicica, which through good personal relations, has the most reliable position of Serbia and in terms with Serbia, which is the most reliable, which is the most of which is the most reliable and the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the world. So, thanks to him, we are a reliable partner to everyone, and that is why we are talking today about agreements with France, with international institutions, banks, with Japan and we will work and we will have a lot of these agreements and discussions in the coming period that will result in concrete results, which will positively reflect daily life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have achieved that his idea of Mini Schengen, about the free flow of goods, people and capital, is an idea accepted by the US administration, is something that will be managed by this previous Trump administration, but whose results will not be able to be destroyed, whoever was there in the administration, whoever ran the US economy or foreign policy, because these are some results that specifically relate to the quality of life of citizens here in Serbia, but also in Kosovo and Metohija, to the quality of life of both Serbs and Albanians, because we respect the interests and other sides. Because of this, thanks to this co-operation and these relations that Alexander Vukic made in 2015, because I want to tell you ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the Washington Agreement is not the result of some quick agreement between Vukic and Tramp or Mike Pens or someone else, with whom President Vukic made great personal relations, because this is the result of hard work. I will remind you, the first signal of change, the warming of relations was the letter of eight American congressmen who wrote a letter to the then secretary of state, John Keri and supported Serbia and then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Then comes the letter in 2017, to the then State Secretary, Tillerson, for the first time in history, we get support, the undivided support of the world's largest forces for what we do here in the region, for what we do about the stability of this region, for all those who know well what infrastructure is, what roads are, but thanks to the President of the Republic who knows well that we have a lot of space to export both goods and services to Albania, that we need roads, that 160m euros, the investment of Hungarian companies has resulted precisely because we have excellent political co-operation, but also excellent infrastructure and the integration of our two countries. That's what we want to do with BiH, and that's why the highway will be built from Belgrade to Sarajevo, because we want our goods and services, in the fastest, cheapest way possible, to reach our key partners, and our economic partners, the largest country in which we export, the country for which we have the most jobs here in Serbia, are the countries in this region. This implies that, in this way, through the construction of these infrastructures, we will be able to attract even more investors from all the world's meridians. Also, I want to say when it comes to this agreement with Japan that avoiding double taxation, how important Serbia is, how much Serbia has done on the investment plan and on the plan to improve the business environment in our country is just talking about the amount of Japanese investment here. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these are investments in plant production, they're investments in production, it's "Yazaki" in Sapac, it's "Toyo Tyres" that will work and work and employ hundreds of people in India, it's Japan Tobacco International, it's companies that are not only important because hundreds of citizens of our country are going to work in them, but they're important because in Serbia we're going to have the latest equipment, when there's an investor from the Middle East or Far East, or from America, or from Germany they see that they're investing Japanese, that this is a clear signal, that it's also important to invest, that in Serbia it is possible to work, that Serbia is making good money and that Serbia, in fact, the economic tiger and economic hub of this region they all want to come in, all want to invest thanks to one wise, quality, well-designed policy and well-designed, not to make a lot of 20% of all of our country's growth, which is not to grow. This clearly speaks of what citizens of the Republic of Serbia can expect in the coming period. This clearly speaks of how seriously and state-run policies that are suited to politics and economic relations and the direction of a country's policy in line with trends in the 21st century, how we are able to keep strategic, or vital national interests, to defend our country, to defend our integrity and to do those things that may have been impossible just a few years ago, thanks to those who were irresponsible, who did not have enough knowledge, whose personal interest and personal wealth was ahead of Serbia. But today we have a Wolf who has succeeded, of course, with your help, Mr. Dacic, that 19 countries of the world have in the past year and a half recognized or suspended the recognition of so-called. Kosovo. Today we have a situation that many countries, and this France, with which we have to ratify today and for the next few days, namely to vote for this agreement that we are talking about today and President McCron, have the view that the two sides need to agree on what their future is. No more ultimatums for Serbia. There are pressures, there will be challenges, but all foreign statesmen and how they respect President Vukic and how they know what his red lines are, and his red lines are Serbia, Serbian politics and the interest of the Serb people, and we will fight hard here in parliament to support it and we will fight hard for Serbia to continue ahead with Alexander Vukic. For all those who say that this is a country that is not progressing, for all those who say that Belgrade is a cassaba, that Serbia is a cassaba, here, look, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs and MPs, here's this cassaba, here's Belgrade on the water, here's the highways, here's four airports in our country, that's SNS policy, that's President Alexander Vukic's policy, and we're going to fight hard in parliament to continue with such a policy in the best interests of our country's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2250	Thank you. The word has been given by the messenger of the people, Tian the Davidite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2251	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in my attention today, I will pay particular attention to the importance and role of the transport infrastructure for the progress and development of the economy in our country. Since 2014, about 350km of highways and fast traffic have been built, and it is planned to do another 400km in the next five years. In addition to the E-80 Nis-Medara highway, where the Nis-Pločnik section is the first construction phase, whose proposal for the law to confirm the loan agreement today is on the agenda, is also on the road ahead of Belgrade-Sarajevo, the highway and fast traffic station Ruma-Sabac-Loznica, the Fruškogorski Corridor, Ruma-Novi Sad, as well as the continuation of construction of the highway "Milos Velika", and this section of Preljina-Požega, which is planned to end next year, as well as the share of Novi Belgrade-Surcin, whose beginning of the works has been delayed due to the pandemic for March of next year, a fast traffic between Lajkovec and Iverko, whose deadline for completion is the end of 2022, will connect Valjevo with the highway "Miloš Velika". What's very important to the environment I come from is construction, so-called construction. The forest corridor, the highway "Vozd Karajordje", which will pass through Lazarevic, so that we will have a direct connection with Corridor 10, because it will cross into the area of Markovac, while on the territory of the Lazarec municipality in Županjac will connect with Corridor 11, which is very important for the people of Lazarec. The Serbian government's decision to join Lazarec on the highway "Milos Veli" and to pass through Lazarec's Corridor "Vozd Karadjordje", has had positive effects on further development of the municipality, which has also contributed significantly to the construction of a new traphostance "Lazarjevac 4", which will allow the power supply of the highways "Milos Veli" and "Vozd Karadjordje", but will contribute to the development of an industrial zone, as well as more reliable power supply of citizens and businesses. Thanks, first of all, to President Alexander Vucic, for understanding the importance of this connection to our citizens, as well as to the involvement of the management of the city municipality, Lazarec today has a very good strategic position, which is also reflected in the interest of the German company IGB Automotive, whose headquarters is in India, to expand its production and open a new plant in Lazarevec. This investment is worth more than 2m euros, and what is very important to us is that it will employ, for the start of 150 workers, with a growth trend of up to 500 employees. Since 2014, when the SNS took over management in the municipality, one of the main priorities has been the reconstruction of the traffic and the entire infrastructure networks in the municipality territory that has been completely neglected. The 227km of new and reconstructed roads were made, and in the following year, despite a significant budget reduction, a reconstruction of 72 traffic stations was planned, which is about 20km away. One of the biggest problems that citizens have been pointing back for years is the lack of sewage and water supply. In the past period, a water network has been developed in Vrbovno and Stepojevac, while the end of works on the network that will be powered by Arapovac and Miroslavs, whose work is scheduled to be completed for the beginning of next year. Nearly 100km has been done so far, and it is planned to do about 110km of hot water treatment and water network. As far as the city's lake is concerned, there is a problem that is related to the lack of parking space, so it is planned to create two public garages which would solve the long-term problem. We all know how challenging it has been for us not only for our country, but for the whole world, but thanks to the responsible work of the past years, our economy has shown good results during the pandemic based on which we can plan to recover and strengthen our economy, as well as building the largest infrastructure projects and improving the living standards of citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2252	Thank you. Next up, she's a colleague of Svetlana Miljic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2253	Chairman, respected ministers and other members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the aim and vision of the modern state of Serbia is to increase the standard of living and investment in the lives and health of our citizens in Serbia, investment in road infrastructure, or investment in capital investments. The development of a country is measured by a network of highways and with every new mile of highways is growing and the standard of our citizens is growing, our country's integration between our cities is growing, the integration of the country with countries in the region, that is, with the whole of Europe. Today, we have a draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the construction of the E-80 highway, the Nis-Medara highway, that is to build the first phase of the highway that will go from Nis to Pločnik. What is very important is that new ways do not mean just faster and safer reaching a certain goal. New roads mean much more, means bringing new investments, means Serbia's networking from the far north to the far south, from east to west. New roads mean Serbia's economic, trade and economic integration with other countries. For decades back, there was a lot of talk about building new roads, a lot of talk, and a little bit of work. In recent years, Aleksandar Vucic has courageously and strongly with the will, trust and faith of Serbian citizens, with good economic reforms strongly decides to make Serbia a modern Serbia and has succeeded. He succeeded because today, Serbian citizens from Belgrade to Cačka travel by an hour and 15 minutes instead of three hours, as they traveled until two years ago. From Belgrade to the border with Northern Macedonia or to the border with Bulgaria, our citizens are now traveling for three hours. He succeeded because he does not deal with lies, he does not make false promises, because Serbia today is richer for the highway "Milos Veliki" from Belgrade to Cačka, a total length of 120km connecting Belgrade and Cačak via Obrenovac via Ub, Lajkovac, Ljig, Mine, Takova, Preljina, and all the way to Cačka. Serbia is also richer for the southern arms of Corridor 10 of a total length of 97km from Grabovnica to Northern Macedonia. It is richer for the eastern arms of Corridor 10 which connects Serbia with the neighbouring Republic of Bulgaria. It's richer in the north because we have so-called The Ipsylon Leg is 27km from the crossing around Subotica, down to the Kelebi border crossing. He succeeded because the Moravia Corridor of the total length of 112 kilometers began, which is important because it connects the east and west, i.e. connecting the E-75 highway with the ‘Milos Veliki’ highway. It's richer because we have the construction and highway of Ruma-Shabac with a fast traffic from Capca to Loznica. It is richer because today, that is, in the voting day, we will vote on the bill to confirm the 85m-euro loan agreement, which will benefit us from building the first stage of the E-80m- so-called highway. The highway ‘Pira’, i.e. for the construction of the Nis-Pločnik section, which will be close to 40 kilometers, will have 12 bridges and viaductors and even six tunnels. This is very important not only for the people of Toplico County, for their connection with other municipalities and other cities in neighbouring areas, this is very important because Serbia is this highway, E-80, the Peace highway will be a link between Bulgaria and Albania. This is important because it will connect, i.e. there will be a networking and better trade with all countries that are neighbouring in the region and also with the countries of Europe. What our citizens need to know is that we have received 250 000 euros of grants from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development that will be used to hire young people to participate in this project. It is also very important that citizens know that Serbia as a stable and financially empowered state has also received 40m euros in grants from the European Investment Bank for the project. We couldn't get this in 2008 because Serbia was financially unstable, because it didn't go forward, it didn't have a vision that our President Aleksandar Vukic now has. At the time of all economic crises, not all countries of the world invested in capital investments precisely because of the crisis. Today, all world countries are struggling with the crisis caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, which causes Kovid-19 disease, but according to the Fiscal Council Report, which we have read and discussed here in the Assembly, it is not the case of Serbia. It's not because I'm going to quote a report from the Fiscal Council in one sentence, which says: "Investing in capital investment during the crisis has avoided one of the leading economic policy mistakes of Serbia since 2008, when after the World Economic Crisis public investment has been reduced rather than being increased in 2008. In 2021, in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which we adopted two weeks ago in this parliament, the budget set for investments is 330 billion dinars. This is Serbia that Aleksandar Vukic fought for, because Aleksandar Vukic is not a statesman who put 619 million in his pocket, as some quasi politicians. He is a statesman who invests every penny in Serbia. What we need to know is that we need to move forward faster, even stronger, and even better for every new mile of highway, for the future of all of us and for the future of our children. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2254	Thank you, colleague. Next on the list is Mr. Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2255	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliaments and MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected representatives of the government, respected Minister Gojkovic, see, you have both performed hard and hard-workingly and joined the ministry. You probably took these manners and brought them from this respectable home, working with us for years and all the congratulations on it! I know that today is not the topic of the National Theatre in Subotica, but I cannot go back to the events of this morning and thank you for recognising in your opening words the importance of completing the work at the National Theatre in Subotica. As you know, Subotica, when I was a child and later a rather young man, and even when you started your political career, started certain projects that were not completed until today. We've managed to finish some of them in the past few years. The National Theatre is still waiting for its moment and the epilogue. It's great news that you announced the completion of your work for next year and putting the National Theatre at Subotica into office at last. I am obliged to give you my regards from the City Administration in Subotica, Mayor of the City Administration, to the entire team and to tell you that both the city and the mayor will be a faithful partner in the completion of this job that began more than a decade ago. I'm also authorized by the mayor to invite you to visit Subotica and now, unfortunately, the National Theatre construction site, with the hope that next year we'll all open it together. So much for that opening part. Now I will return to the laws themselves and to what is in them today. Responsibility and co-operation are probably the two most important terms that can determine all the laws that are before us today. Responsibility, responsibility above all to the citizens of Serbia and the need for them to be timely and accurate, but also responsibility to public service in terms of ensuring stable financial operations between RTS and RTS. That's exactly what we're doing with this law regarding public media service, but remember, the other day we supported the introduction, i.e. an increase in taxis related to radio-television subscriptions. We have also shown responsibility to the media service, but also responsibility to citizens who have the right to provide objective and timely information. Co-operation, co-operation could be defined as the smallest common denominator of all these other laws, these three that are before us. What else would be the Agreement with the French government, what else would be contracts with the Japanese government and what other than co-operation would be plans, that is, a law that envisions the construction of a road from Nis and further towards the Albanian coast -- regional co-operation. That is exactly the term we owe to the good political position of the Republic of Serbia, which it enjoys today, thanks to the work and efforts of today's President Aleksandr Vukic, and it begins sometime in 2014 when he takes over the government of the Republic of Serbia and starts making the most important decisions for the Republic of Serbia. These are also two terms that determine not only these legal proposals that are before us today, but alongside some others and the overall work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What are we messengers looking for in return? Nothing but responsibility and co-operation. Co-operation with all of these in the region and in the world, but I'm going to say here and I'm going to rely on responsibility and cooperation of RTS, nothing more than that. In the opening statement of this morning, you mentioned a section concerning regular reporting from assembly meetings, perhaps even the idea of introducing a special channel where congregation meetings will not be interrupted by certain special shows, and I fully agree with you. While you were saying this, I received an important message from Podgorica from the director of the Serbian House, which, I will point out again, is funded by the Republic of Serbia on the initiative of today's president of the country with 3.7m euros and which today makes it probably the most important cultural institution of the Serbian people in Montenegro. Just as we started this debate and while you were talking, a message came to me from the director of that Serbian house and I'll read it to you originally, and then I'll explain what it is. In this note, he says: "The Serbian house, which believes that timely monitoring of the state and events in Montenegro, is especially ahead of the upcoming census, of exceptional importance for the Serb people here, offers RTS the possibility of opening permanent correspondence. To this end, there is a TV studio that can be trained to report live, report journalists, contact shows and the like. Then he offers a room for the installation unit, as well as an office for the correspondent. The costs of electricity, water, the internet cover the Serbian house, all the material costs. “ Why am I telling you this? I know you can't influence the business policy of RTS, nor is it your job, but RTS has its own correspondence centres in both Moscow and Washington and Chicago, and in Brussels and Rome and Paris, and that's good. It has its own regular correspondents in Ljubljana and Zagreb, but there is no one in Podgorica. There's no permanent correspondent, there's no correspondence center. I should especially explain that today in Montenegro lives between 28% and 29% of the population who declare themselves nationally as Serbs. It's official data, we certainly stand behind it, but given the experience of my closest family, I'm sure it's not exactly accurate, given all those political pressures and all those events that followed the last census. But let me point out, let's stick to that information. Our will and our obligation is that, in accordance with the law, the constitutions and respecting certainly the constitutional and legal framework of Montenegro, we take care of that part of our population. Should it be said that 29% of the population who are nationally declared as Serbs is family and how they are related, each to our citizens in the Republic of Serbia. It's business, identity, cultural relationships that I'm not talking about. Maybe you didn't need this explanation, because I know you absolutely understand that. I've said this more for the sake of our citizens and the need to finally settle this thing. Of course, I do not criticise everything that is business policy when it comes to the opening of correspondence centres around the world, but I think our people and people in the Republic of Serbia deserve such a correspondence centre in Podgorica, especially taking into account the offer officially sent by the "Serbian House" in Podgorica. I would like to conclude this, but I will also refer to that my esteemed colleague, Serbia's Filipovic, realizing the importance of this message when applying for a word, gave up speaking now and giving me the opportunity to present this important information to you and to this tide and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but above all RTS. I thank you for your attention and thank my colleague, Serbia's Filipovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2256	And we thank you for sharing this very important information with us. The next speaker is Mr Tomislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2257	Dear Minister Mrs. Gojkovic, distinguished ministers Mr. Udovic with associates, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with great pride today we can say that Serbia is a leader in economic development in the region, that Serbia is a leader in attracting foreign investment, that Serbia today is a leader in the fight against the crown of the virus, but that Serbia is also a leader in the construction of the road network. Today in Serbia we have more than 45,000 kilometers of travel infrastructure and we are in the middle-rate category of development in this area. Every day, thanks to one proper policy, savings policy, this figure is increasing and next year's budget provides for a number of projects that will further network our country with modern traffic, both from the north to the south, from the east to the west. Some of the most important projects are the Bačka-Banat highway that will connect Bačka Breg, Sombor, Kulu, Vrbas, Srbobran, Becej, Kikindu, all the way to Rakova, the highway "Vojvodjansko P", which will further network Belgrade-Zrenjanin-Novi Sad, then the Preljina-Požega highway, which is the continuation of a major project in Serbia highway Milos Velika, then the highway of Karadjordje, etc. A forest corridor. Then, two very important projects that will mean a city from which I come, for the city of Sremska Mitrovica. It's a ruma-shabac-loznica and the Kuzmin-Sremska Raca-Bijeljina highway. The town of Sremska Mitrovica will be the only city in our country that will have three highways in the immediate vicinity. Then, two corridors, Fruskogorski and Moravski Corridor, a tour of Belgrade and many other projects that will further contribute to Serbia's development in road infrastructure. Also, one important project I want to talk about today especially today is the future highway E-80, the path of peace so-called. which will connect Nis and Merdare to their first phase, and that's the Nis-Pločnik stock. In this way Nis will be connected to the Adriatic and Ionian Seas as the largest economic, cultural and economic centre in Southeast Serbia, with their ports and thus will shorten travel time, but traffic security in this part will also increase. In addition to economic importance, this highway will have great political importance as it will positively affect the lasting improvement of the relationship between Serbs and Albanians. We live beside each other and only through collaboration and mutual understanding can we build a better future. Today, more and more Albanians from KIM space use health services in central Serbia, use traffic infrastructure to move faster, easier, but more safely, to Western and northern Europe, as well as other destinations. I had the great honour and great pleasure in 2012 as deputy mayor of Sremska Mitrovica to be part of a major fraternization campaign of 80 local self-government from central Serbia and the AP Vojvodina with local self-government with KIM where the Serbian people live largely. Then, along with the great hospitality that I experienced with other colleagues there, I also met the efforts of our people in the KIM area to remain on the eternal hearths and to be on their own. Certainly economic empowerment is one of the preconditions. That's why it's very important that, through projects like this, our people are empowering KIM to give them a new hope of survival. When I spoke to our hosts what one way is, one of the conditions to regain trust between the two nations, they told me it was economic co-operation. Through the centuries, Serbs have always been good producers, Albanians good traders, and through common interest there will certainly be tensions, trust will begin to grow, and both will benefit. One of the important documents signed in September of the month in Washington is primarily one joint statement by the Serbian-Kosovo Chamber of Commerce on continuing co-operation and one of the important initiatives is the continuation of co-operation in the "mini Schengen" programme. The initiative was first offered by President Aleksandar Vucic, just putting an emphasis on the importance of economic integration between the people. The statement itself envisions the establishment of a joint team for economic co-operation where the most recognised experts in the area of economy, rights from Pristina and Belgrade would be imported, connected and made their proposals that the two sides could co-operate. The team will also form sectoral groups, infrastructure development groups, sustainable energy production and diversification groups, agrotourism development groups, as well as a team to build a glass factory in the region. Last week, we here in the Assembly supported an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens of the two countries and making it easier to cross borders using only a ID card, among other things as documents. Certainly, this agreement is one good basis to increase transit itself through the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to form a common labour market. We are aware that Serbia today is a major construction site and that labour shortages are lacking in many sectors, in many areas in many cities. We believe that through these projects, through these agreements, people from the area of KIM, Albania, and the whole environment will be looking for work in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is also particularly looking forward to is the increase in foreign trade between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania from year to year. In 2013, we exported 88.7m euros to Albania, imported 12.3. In 2014, 95.8m euros, imported 13.6 and in 2018 we exported 135m euros and imported 45.7m euros. This is enough to say that in 2018 alone, we achieved a 90m-euro surplus and that we covered exports by importing 296%. Of course, in addition to an increase in foreign trade, the number of businesses from the area of Serbia exporting to Albania is increasing, and Albania's imports into Serbia. In 2013, 407 businesses exported from Serbia to Albania, and 209 from Albania imported into Serbia. In 2018, 733 economic operators from Serbia exported and 300 imported from the territory of the Republic of Albania. As far as the product structure itself is concerned, as far as exports from Serbia are concerned, they are grains, iron, steel, drinks, rubber, road vehicles and parts, pharmaceutical products, etc., and most of all we have imported vegetables, roots and brushes for food, footwear, sulphur, natural gas, chips, kreč and other products. This is all the best to say how much economic co-operation is going on between the two countries, and when it develops and when it grows, so does trust and trust, and I believe that all the negative consequences of the 1990s, from 2000 and other years behind us, will move aside and two peoples and two countries will cooperate better. Is there a better example than in November 2019 when Albania, or Durres place, was hit by a major earthquake, the Republic of Serbia was the first to run for aid and our fire rescue units were the first to come to the space of the Republic of Albania and to provide maximum assistance to save people and to mitigate the consequences of this elemental disaster. In Voting Day, together with my colleagues, I will support this proposal and together with other SNS MPs, selected from the list "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", we will give strong support to our government, prime minister, but also to President Vukic in creating conditions for better, normal and decent Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2258	Thank you. Next is counterpart Mirela Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2259	The respected chairman, respected MPs, respected ministers with co-workers, respected Serbian citizens, Serbia has an excellent geographical position, but also political and economic stability, a prerequisite for infrastructure development and Serbia. Connecting the region is the key to development and Serbia as a whole. Construction of the Nis-Medara road will mean a lot to the economy, faster flow of goods and people, and will improve the economic integration of the region. I'm sure this highway will be an incentive to develop new business opportunities. The Mira highway is also important from a political point of view, as it shows interests and the desire for Serbia to come to a solution by compromise. I must also mention the tourist potential of that part of our country, which will certainly benefit from building this highway. Travel time will be shortened, traffic security will be increased, travel ties with Albania and Bulgaria will be better. It will help young people stay in these areas, which will attract new investors and bring this part of our country back to life. It is another indicator that our state thinks of every place and part of Serbia. I must point out the importance of a state-of-the-art merger, how important it is for us in small towns to be supported by the state. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, we received funds in Lapovo for the construction of the Lapovo-Raca intermunicipality road. The value of this project is like the annual budget of our Lapovo municipality. Building that road is of great importance to both municipalities, especially farmers of our region. That share of the road was impenetrable, the estates were healed. Today, after the construction of the road, we have the first registered rural capital of 65 hectares. Today, the first phaserry is built on that road, and the new fruit plant is zero. All infrastructure projects and all capital investments are indicators of President Aleksandr Vukic's well-led policy. Citizens clearly see the difference between the previous and the current authorities. In all areas of our lives, the state of Serbia is trying to give us a better and better life. It is very important that we from small places are given the opportunity to speak in this respected home, to have the opportunity to bring problems to our environments. The consequences of poor DS policy are not only visible in Belgrade. An example of the sports hall in Lapovo is one of the indicators of poor and irresponsible DS authorities and elsewhere in our Serbia. In 2008, construction of a sports hall on land with unresolved property and legal relations began in Lapovo. 180 million dinars have been spent, and the hall has not been brought in for purpose. For a long time, for more than 12 years, it was the largest monument to sports in Shumadia. Today, 12 years later, he's in custody for purpose. Project technical documentation has been corrected, property legal relations have been resolved and other shortcomings at the facility in accordance with the law have been resolved thanks to the responsible SNS policy. Today, all we have to do is call the Minister of Sports and open a sports hall in Lapov. I think someone from the previous government should be responsible for the funds spent, and the facility was not detained for purpose. What makes me especially happy today is that today we have both a country and a citizen fighting for their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2260	Thank you, colleagues. The next is MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2261	It's God's help. First I'd like to congratulate the true holiday of women to all mothers, first of all. Today, Materica, I congratulate my heart on the holiday we are now in a little holiday and joyous euphoria, because we are also in the Christmas post, thank God, and we expect the birth of the son of God and that day when we will celebrate, but very important topics are on the agenda, especially this topic about further financing of public services. I have to say, honestly, if we just watched the yellow bank information program, I wouldn't give it to them. So, as far as RTS and even TV are concerned, if we're looking at the information program, I wouldn't give them a single dinar. However, we must understand that RTS and RTTV are much more than the information program and that this is a cultural treasure, first of all, of our people, because of the incredible archival structure they have in them. You know, when they burned down RTS on October 5th, they weren't even aware that they were essentially burning something that was the history of our people. Lucky for you, something's been saved. What, unfortunately, wasn't that missing something similar to the German bombing in 1941 when we were being shot at by the library. We have to keep it safe, and it certainly takes money. Now we finally have to figure out for once in our lives whether we have a public service or if we have state television. Since it's the intensity of being a public service, then, excuse me, we need to finance it somehow, and it's funded by the citizens. If we have already defined that this is being financed by citizens, I am indeed a great opponent that citizens will then double-finance it by paying that tax even from the budget to pay for RTS. Why would you do that? He's got to break up with that sometime. I understand that the state wants to help and to continue to touch the public service, and it's all absolutely understandable. But let's not be a public service if we can't provide funds. We have to ask ourselves – what might the citizens sometimes not pay? Even now, they have a legal obligation to pay. Apparently, they don't like the very much of the program that our public service is broadcasting. We have to take care of that. I totally agree with the idea of opening a congregation channel and I think that would be very useful, with what, of course, someone has to pay. TV is increasingly expensive and less profitable toy because television is becoming less and less visible in the YouTube era. As much as I don't want to admit it, but here's the thing -- I, unfortunately or fortunately, almost don't watch TV at all, excluding sports content, and of course sometimes because of the kids that you have to watch cartoons. As far as the information program is concerned, I don't remember when I looked at some kind of political show, a diary, too, which, of course, someone who deals with politics is not nice to say, but it's like that - I'm bored with shows. They're terribly sterile to me, without any innovation. It's all been told more than once, and you really can't go anywhere, and especially on RTS, to look at something that's quality. For example, they made this form "word to word". I don't mind, but it's a boring format. Five of them are talking, overlapping. I don't see why anyone does that. So either it's normal to come up with something and people are attracted to each other and, of course, we have some reason to pay RTS. Like this, I only pay that tax for that reason to preserve that cultural treasure that's in the RTS archives. As far as their program goes, it's a disaster. It's a complete disaster. Well, then, there's a lot of sermons going on at the expense of the authorities, and I can't agree with that. He says - you're affecting RTS, so there's no opposition there. There, first of all, we're not coming. There, first of all, is an information program directed against the government. I have a million and one regret about their work. If we've defined ourselves to be a public service, here I am asking them, since they're not state television, but public service, when you're a public service, you have to call everyone, including an extraparliamentary opposition, please call the representatives and extraparliamentary opposition as often as possible, because every one of them is 5% worse for us and the people when they actually get to know them will essentially not vote for them. Please RTS, I think they're causing us direct damage for not calling the people of the extra-parliamentary opposition, please call them. I don't know what more we should do, because we keep getting a lecture – that's what the Wolf forbids or the SNS forbids someone to visit. No, no, we want them to visit, the more they visit, and I think we need to talk to RTS in terms of these editors and directors of RTS themselves, to ask them – don't people do us that kind of damage. There's a charge going to our account. We have nothing to do with it. Please, in your shows, whatever format you want to create, make 10 polemics, call the representatives and these extraparliamentary oppositions. You're a public service. All citizens pay for it and have the right to say it. We really want this to be one country where the polemics take place. I think the controversy is something that's healthy and something that's good and shouldn't be left behind. We have come to the stage of unfortunately completely divided media where we have these cross-border channels that unfortunately don't even pay taxes to this country seriously violate the law, but which are so extremely against us that it really conflicts with common sense. On the other hand, you have media that are kind of prone to power, and that's where the opposition won't come. We have one terrible division in Serbia in this media sense, although in practice there is a vast majority on our side of the people. A prominent minority is on the other side, but in the media it is very influential and as if we have two Serbias completely divided, which is not good. There's got to be talk, there's got to be talk. I'm an absolute supporter of the dialogue. Even when it seems to you in advance that dialogue is pointless, that it is stupid, that there may not be results, but better to sit and talk than to have any conflict, including media in Serbia. So RTS or RTS should be the bond between all that and since they are public services – call people to the polemics, and whoever wins the polemics... You know what, maybe sometimes our arguments aren't great. Maybe somebody better get ready because when you go on shows all the time, and that's their fault, I'm talking about the opposition, it's their fault to go on a show where their questions are served and where I'm serdaring, you're my duke. That's stupid. Then when you go out on any duel you lose. The same can happen to us if you go on shows all the time where your questions are being served. Let's have some controversy. Let him practice. We have as many young people as you want. Let them get into some kind of fire. So what if you lose a duel if you didn't say something right? What difference does it make? It'll be better next time. If we want to have some political elite in the future that's really going to do something useful for this country, these people should go to the duels, these people should be involved in active political life. I'm asking RTS to let something like that happen. So, once again, of course, I'm going to vote for this law to allow them to do more, but you know what we have to finally define whether it's a public service or whether it's a state television? If it's state television, please, then the state is completely financing from the budget. If the public service is no funding from the budget, but fine citizens are paying you, make sure you make some money because you're producing some kind of program, so please. It's the same thing when we listen to the common controversy that the media have come to today, often it comes from opposition lines, that citizens can't express themselves. So wait, you've told us for 10 or 12 years, as far as you've been in power, that it's the best thing in the world to privatise the media, and even Sasa Jankovic in the 2009 Citizens' Protector report said that there is a terrible influence on the media for reasons why the media hasn't yet privatised. Then, when it finally came to a rather pronounced privatization of the media, and when the state completely retired from the media, now, that's not good. There's now criticism of private owners. People, right, you want capitalism, or whatever you want. If the media is private, I'm sorry, I'm on notice, I own the media, I'm going to influence this media's editorial policy. Maybe I won't play the information program at all, maybe I don't care about it at all, maybe I'll be making movies all day, 'cause that makes me a profit. Of course, there is an obligation for those who get the frequency of what they have to and how they have to play. But, my people, you can't force a private media owner to have an editorial policy like you like, it's just his thing and it's so in capitalism. We've heard from you all the time that it's best to only have private media. Again, then on the other hand, they'd like to return some public service, you ask them if you have the money to finance it, well, no, why would they fund it for me. What do you mean, what do you mean, every medium has to get some kind of money to finance, I guess that's a logic. The same thing when an objection to payment goes, it used to be a tax on RTS, now it's a legal obligation to pay, well, people used to not want to pay that tax. I understand them. We need to define whether we want to have RTS, or not to have RTS. If we want to have RTS so it's a public service, then citizens have to finance it, there's nowhere to finance it, it's the only source of income, if we don't, and we can say it, we're not going to have RTS and we're going to shut it down. But I think it would be a disaster for this country, given the incredible historical treasure that the RTS keeps. Serbia's radio television has a series of great channels, especially on the cable system, from music channels, documentary, incredible documentation and everything they play, we simply, people, have to keep it. There are at least one dozen channels that have been introduced, film channels, etc., etc. It all costs, it's someone's got to pay, because, and it's keeping and archiving, it's all costing. Now we have to define whether we're going to have RTS or not to have RTS, if we want to, we have to finance it from somewhere, but also to define ourselves, if it's funded by the state, then it's state television, if it's not funded by the state from the budget, public service, sorry, but you have to pay. That's right. They must, if we talk about the information program, appeal once again to them, call as many opposition to RTS as possible, because I think it's good, that it's primarily good for our party itself and for the government itself. It's good to have as many opposition as possible on RTS. I have nothing against duels, as much as you want, just go ahead, I think it's good for Serbia, better if Serbia talks and see where we disagree, but that eventually someone is making a circus and chaos, and that they are producing madness here and that they are violently trying to get into the assembly, I don't think anyone needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2262	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Milos Bandur.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2263	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable fellow MPs, allow me to start by paying attention to the concern the state of Serbia is showing for RTS, we adopted a 255 to 299 dinar increase, a charge charged at the electricity bill, i.e. it goes according to the electric number. Today, we have a law on the agenda, or addition of legislation that allows for additional funding of RTS and RTS, means public media services directly from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course it's a good thing and it's an obligation for the state to take care of public media services. What I might be asking as a question, or what I'm thinking about, I haven't been able to find any answers, is when, let's say, RTS last did an analysis and rationalization of its business system, because it's still a giant that swallows over 7.5 billion dinars a year. I believe that there is plenty of room for certain savings if a review and analysis of the work of individual sectors is carried out, segments. Perhaps something needs to be rationalized, that is, to reduce the size of a sector, perhaps to increase the number of people somewhere, to strengthen material resources, and all in order to increase and ensure better quality of the programme. What seems to me compared to some time when I was a kid and a student, is that RTS lacks more quality education and science programs, then, a documentary program. As far as the information programme is concerned, I think it is solid with certain objections, given the fact that ideal television does not exist, at least not in Serbia. So I'm going to say that this program is solid. What I hate most about RTS as a public media service is that they were very late to start reporting on lithium in Montenegro, and that one week I had to watch Algeria, to inform myself about what was going on in Podgorica and across Montenegro. I don't think there's a good explanation for one of these behaviors, or he can't give any explanation. That's where I'd stay, that's where I'd end up, when it comes to this part of the agenda. I would refer to the Nis-Medara highway, which is an extremely important project. I'll look back on that financial part first. The Nis-Medare highway 225m euros, and this first share, i.e. the first phase of Nis-Pločnik 32.6km, will cost 85m euros from the loan, as we heard, of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. By reading the material I saw that the terms of the loan, or loan, are very favourable, we have a grace period of four years and the payment of the principal with interest over the period of 11 years, twice a year. So in the 22-year war, which is quite solid. I see from the contract that we were left to choose whether the interest rate will be variable or fixed, so the borrower decides how the interest rate will apply, which is also favourable. I see that the lender has also approved a grant, i.e. a gift of 250 000 euros to oversee the public procurement process and training of 60 young engineers who will acquire the necessary practice and knowledge on that highway. Of course, out of this EBRD loan goes 100 million loans from the European Investment Bank, and since Europe sees its interest in building this very important regional direction there is also 46.6 million from the European Investment Framework for the Western Balkans, it is a grant, it is something with which the EU participates in building this highway, and it is not small funds. What is good is that I know the situation in the area in Nisavska region and Toplica and that the highway will bypass Prokuplje and Merošina i.e. We'll have bypasses around those two places, which has been a big problem so far. Whoever travelled from Kosovo, Pristina or Kosovo Mitrovica to Nis has travelled very slowly, because he had to go through Prokuplje, it lasts half an hour, 40 minutes, then through Merošina. This mixes local traffic, regional, international. There's a lot of car accidents in the places because there's a lot of traffic users. This way, by building a bypass around Prokuplje and the roadway around Merošima in the city will remain local traffic, urban traffic will be cleared and traffic security will increase, and above all, pedestrians and students in Prokuplje and Merošina and of course, the total regional traffic, which has been very slow so far because it has been passing through all the streets of the main one and the other. I see seven input and exit loops are planned, which is very good. So we have Merošina – east, Prokuplje – east, Prokuplje – west, Beoljin - Mines, Kursumliu – Merdare, I think it's an optimal number. It's my opinion on the side of someone who uses that path and often goes that way. The construction of this highway, which is planned, according to the document, by the end of 2026, will mean a lot to Toplice residents, primarily Prokuplja, Kursumlija, Blaca and other places, as it will have a good connection with Nis and other towns in Serbia. It is of great importance this time and for all Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. I often travel to Kosovo Mitrovica and there when you cross Merdare and you get somewhere near Pristina, you already have a highway that is finished by the Kosovo authorities and leads from Pristina to Kosovo Mitrovica, so the weakest link of that road is Nis-Medara and from Podujevo to somewhere near Pristina. By building this highway from both Kosovo and this other side, it would mean that the total traffic towards Kosovo Mitrovica and northern Kosovo will accelerate, also towards Gracanica, because in that part we have a lot of our people living there. Of course, the highway on Kosovo is already passing by Prizren, so people living in Strpce and that part will also be connected by highway to the Republic of Serbia. So, this time it is important not only for people living in Nisavska and Toplička County, in southern Serbia, but also for all our countrymen living in Kosovo and Metohija, because it will connect them on the highway to Nis, Belgrade and all others, but, of course, it also has great importance for all Kosovo Albanians, for all people travelling to Belgrade or other European destinations. We know that many people who live in Kosovo and Metohija and work in Germany, Switzerland, etc. use our travel associations, so I think the toll revenue will also be very solid. This time also boosts the competitiveness of Constantin Veliki airport in Nis. So far, a number of Kosovo Albanians have used Nis airport for travel. Now the probability of this is increasing, because the better route, i.e. the distance of Pristina and Nis, is about 130 km away, a good highway increases the competitiveness of our airport which otherwise offers very good conditions and a large number of destinations in Europe. What is, in my opinion, still very important and should be pointed out is the development and exploitation of the potential of spas located in the thermal area – Banja Break, Kursumliska Banja, Lukovska Banja. I think building this highway will be able to achieve the potential of these banana spas by the end, they will become more attractive and by certain investments I think a good degree of development can be achieved there. Also, the bath by building the highway gets in some way in availability, on accessibility, or through the bullet, or through Blatz. Hawk, Radan Mountain is becoming more attractive. Pločnik, the site mentioned in the project is where there is a Neolithic archaeological site. So we have a tourist potential that can be used in a good way. Every investor goes where there's a road, a good road. So by building this highway, Kursumli, Prokuplje, that entire thermal part will become more attractive for investment and I hope it will contribute to their development. Not looking at it, or whatever they're going to be more attractive, for some private, etc. Investments, I see the state has taken account and taken care of the development of this part of Serbia, because it is a strategically very important part of our country. As we know, a cornerstone is set, construction is under way, and in 2022 a factory of the dedicated industry in Kursumlia is to be opened. All in all, by building this time the city from which I come, Nis, is gaining importance in every sense. There's that -- all the roads to Rome, and I'd say now that all the roads go through Nis, because if you want to go to the Ionian, Adriatic Sea, you can do it from Nis, or we'll be able to cross the future highway. Already now, from Nis, Skopje and Thessaloniki can go to the Aegean Sea or reach Athens, via Sofia and Varna to go to the Black Sea, or, for example, highways to Istanbul. And this highway is something that is missing that, as we would say, the city of Nis is going to three seas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2264	Thank you. The next is MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we passed the budget law for 2021, I was pleased to see that there was no part of the Budget Law on the part of the funds provided for the work of our public service. Even then, I said that one of the possible reasons was that we finally managed to get Dragan Gilas off the back of our public service. It seems to me that the damage caused by the former regime led by Dragan Gilas is quite large and that even in 2021, RTS expects a particular problem from the government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, from what they like to say, people's money. It's not a problem for the National Assembly to vote and this law. We are returning today the loans owed to us by the former regime, the entire state, every citizen. And today we pay back the loans, we pay off the debts that Dragan Gilas left in Belgrade, so it's no problem to vote either. I'm interested in one other thing, do our public service, the media service, RTS and RTS pay cable operators a fee? Because if they're paying compensation to cable operators, then we're in serious trouble as a society. Then there were some value disturbances. They don't pay? Okay, public services don't pay, but that's why other companies pay, because I think cable operators should be regulated by law. Can't cable operator from a software manufacturer, it's some TV, to charge a fee that the program that broadcasts that TV is in the cable of that cable operator. The cable operator is only a carrier of the signal to the end user and he charges it to the end user. You can't charge both the manufacturer and the user. It's not normal. Because Serbia has not developed a cable operator market, it is possible that Solak and Dragan Gilas are acting this way today, it is possible. That is a serious problem. Also, when it comes to our public service, I notice that there are repeated reruns of certain series, that program. I don't mind, believe me, but let's be honest about what it really looks like and what some bad habits have come up in some earlier period. You can see for yourself that for several weeks, months, and even some years, some of our actors, artists, who I really give credit to for their acting work, say that in Serbia it is very difficult to work, as it is more unsustainable, how they will change the place of residence, in order to change probably nationality, etc., I will not go into it. Do you know why that is? What was going on in our cinema during, say, while the culture minister was Bradic? There were no filmmaking projects, there were only funds that were detached from the budget, so they sat down with the big stars with Bradic, determined the amount of money the state would pay for the film, the shooting started, the shooting ended. If there's any money ahead, they'll pay the statisticians the two or three seconds they showed up, they'll pay them even if they're bigger stars than Robert de Niro, but that money won't stay with them, but they'll have to bring back the actors, the stars. The owner of the film is not a state, even though the state paid for the complete film. It's owned by one of their publishing houses that's going to distribute it in cinemas, sound-painters, for all of it neatly charged, and the state won't have a dinar. In the end, they will buy the right to show and RTS, and with this budget money they will again pay for the broadcast of that film and instead of the revenues from that film being returned to the state for a new project, they will end up at ours, I can't say, really star actors at the national level. Now, that's no longer possible and there's a problem with their dissatisfaction. I don't blame them so much for it, I blame the former regime, because it taught them how to make money easily. I'm not going to mention their names, on the contrary, I'm going to feel the name of each and every one of them, because they are artists at national level, because we need their reputation to preserve the collective spirit of the people, which is also needed for the preservation of the entire people. It is obvious that I care more about their reputation than those who cared as they took money from that same nation. They should be ashamed of themselves. If they want to leave Serbia, they should leave. There's gonna be a lot of new actors coming in, young, quality actors, and there's gonna be a lot of new actors who'll be drawing attention in every way, maybe even entertaining our citizens. But let's end it once with this story that this government is against culture, against art. It is against the fact that on behalf of culture and art, Serbian citizens are being robbed and that we should put an end to it. One more thing, every time RTS any of those movies, I'm not going to mention these movies, not even a series to mention, rephrase, every time it has to that publishing house, or those actors to re-pay fees and fees. I think it's one of the highest insolences, that what's financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget will repeatedly be charged from that same budget, so that someone can have a comfortable and nice life. No problem about this. I also look forward to this part of the China Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France. It is a very interesting topic and I believe that Mrs Gojkovic will know very well how to use it, that this agreement is mutually satisfying. Certainly, French cinema is much stronger than Serbian cinema. Of course it's necessary to try at least, if we don't try, we won't even know if it's worth it, to make some historical documentary films right here in this co-production. For example, to make a final film, let's say, about the loss of Serbs, Roma, Jews, Croat anti-fascists in Jasenovac. Not for us to fight with our neighbors, just for business. In the first place, to preserve the memories of the victims who were killed in such a concentration camp and to leave through one work of art a message that something like this should never happen to us again. We can't do this alone. We have been talking for generations about many terrible war crimes that occurred here during World War II, the death of students in Kragujevac, the shooting of citizens in the King. Does anyone else know about these events outside Serbia? I can say very few people. For example, about a crime as terrible as that, the number of victims is not for measuring and comparing, each victim has its own weight, value, regret, but four or five times less than in Kragujevac, which is the German SS division, I think it was called "Dac Reich", made in a French settlement, 650 or 700 residents of that village died. The settlement today is just as it was when these people were killed and the whole world knows only about this crime. I think we should take advantage of the opportunity and, with all our condolences and pain to those victims who were in France and our victims in both Kragujevac and Kragujevac and Jasenovac, use French cinematography and leave one historical clue to what happened to our fellow citizens or citizens. When it comes to this Treaty on Confirmation, avoiding double taxation between the Republic of Serbia and Japan, I can tell you that I am much more looking forward to such a contract than I was looking forward to when, not me, but perhaps my colleagues earlier, when the agreement between double taxation between the then SFRY and Luxembourg was confirmed. Japan is still a serious state, and I think it's time to start choosing the countries with which we're going to have that kind of cooperation. I don't mind if Serbia is an investor in a country, so we have such an agreement. I don't mind if some other country is an investor in Serbia that we have such an agreement. But in order to have an agreement just to avoid a few tycoons paying taxes in Serbia, I don't think we should conclude such agreements anymore. Because, Gilas and Šolak, which my colleague Marijan Risticevic often talked about, they do some service here, they have some work here, distribution of radio-television programs through cables. From that they earn people, believe it or not, they amount to 600-700m euros annually. When they pay the electricity and this little worker they have, their TV N1 invoices the cable operator for broadcasting their program and the money goes to Luxembourg. Countries as serious as Japan certainly won't allow anything like this, especially having their investments here. They're not going to let their reputations be ruined by Solak and Gilas, they're too serious a country for such two thugs. As far as the highway is concerned, I can already see everything that Gilas' portals and media and N1 are going to publish, again, the citizens of Serbia, here, will be on all the front pages of their media tomorrow. No one's going to say how many highways or some kind of project they actually need. It will attack Serbia, attack this Assembly, which we have given consent to shares of hundreds of millions of euros, and that is not a bit of money at all, but it is much less than the Adi bridge, much less than it was washed and pulled through a public media service. One more thing, nobody's going to say that we're going to start paying off credit rates when that share is finished from the revenues that that highway is making, but they're going to write -- here it is, Vukic, re-deploying citizens, re-serving, counting on how much per capita has to come back from these loans. At the beginning of my discussion, I said that today we are returning their loans both as the Republic and as the province and as the city of Belgrade, and we do not know and see the results of these loans, except that they are now much richer than they were when they came to power. I also saw their presidents of municipalities arriving at the National Assembly when their first term was. They were MPs and city council presidents. Do you believe they had shoes that were torn up in six months, but only they had dressing watches on them, etc. It cost more than all the assets that many had and that many still have today. Now they're going to tell us how we owe the citizens, we're going to hire to have highways, we're going to hire them to find a job, and they're going to stay here in Serbia. We owe Serbia and the citizens more investors to reduce the unemployment rate in order to influence the market in this way, to increase labour prices and the living standards of citizens. We don't owe Serbia to make Gilas, Solak and the team rich. However, they are probably just used to making money by robbing Serbian citizens. And apparently, they're most bothered by SNS and Alexander Vucic, but that's already their problem. If they want rule again in the Republic of Serbia, let them not call on the Macedonian or Ukrainian scenarios, let them not call on other people's children to break up here the Assembly and fight with the police, but let them go to the elections, try to convince Serbian citizens that they have changed, that they are honest and will work in their interest, although I know that neither Serbian citizens, not even small children, will believe that story anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2266	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2267	Thank you. I'm not getting into the aspects of your political discussion. I just want to say that there must be room for the Serbian Film Centre to allocate certain resources to record important topics of national importance, especially because of the growing culture of memory of certain historical events that are related to Serbia or to the Serbian people in the near or distant past. This year's film "Dara from Jasenovac" was financed, for the first time in 60 years, by a director of smog and courage and boldness to make a film on a very painful topic of events from the Second World War, which has long been burdening, and apparently today is also burdening Serbia, the Republic of Croatia's relations, and perhaps this film came at the right time to tear away from forgetting events in the infamous Jasenovac camp, especially the fact that it is the only camp in the world, in the Second World War, which had a special camp for children. It's a very painful topic. The Serbian Film Centre Commission has chosen this film as the best film in the competition and has chosen it and proposed it as our Oscar candidate. We hope he will be seen in great competition, as an extraordinary act. At the Serbian Film Centre, it is worth equally large historical topics in the following year, because as the Ministry of Culture and Information, in general as a state, we have defined 830 million competitions for making different films and series on different topics. I guess one of the competitions will be on the topic of some historic event, I'm not going to, because it's the decision of the Serbian Film Centre. We have exactly 700 million, defined for incentives, for filmmaking in Serbia. Suppose there's going to be any producer or producer with ideas, again in line with some of your suggestions to make a movie of some importance to our country. We saw, there were many polemics from different segments of our society why the Serbian Film Centre, or commission, chose this very film "Dara from Jasenovac". Sure, because he was the best in the competition. I never thought that anyone from the world of film, actors, critics, directors, I didn't even analyze exactly who was on this committee, but one of the big names from the world, not domestic cinematography, but world cinematography, like Dobrivoje Tanasijević Dan Tana, chose and voted precisely for "The Dara from Jasenovac". We can only wish such a good movie with an important theme, processed in a good artistic way and won some of the prestigious awards. While we're here to see if it's necessary or not necessary, and those famous questions of ours, why at this very moment, the shooting of this film, and before us is just a sign of a question, and why not so far to make a film about Jasenovac, the American producers did not have such a way of thinking and decided to nominate this film for all awards in all categories of gold globe, which is simply as an announcement of the Oscar award in different categories. I want to say that certain parts of the cultural public disagree with that, they proposed some other films, but the second film after the vote, somehow undetected by our public, is the film "In the Name of the People", which also deals with one of the most important national historical topics, which is the film Darka Bajic, an extremely good film like this Gagi Antonijevic, which again deals with the form of a film, the topic of the association of Vojvodina, that is, certain parts of Serbia's current Vojvodina. It's two films with two important historical topics. The third film in the vote was Srdan Golubovic's film, so it is important that you, as MPs who follow different polemics in our public, know how it was voted and what order the films were evaluated by the commission. Whatever film is nominated as the Republic of Serbia that invests so much in domestic cinema, I want, of course, success in all of them and in this prestigious competition and nomination, but also in all international festivals. What I can't agree with you, or anyone in the sphere of politics, and some of our permanent division of these or those, it shouldn't be in the world of culture. The Republic of Serbia cares about every man, we care about keeping all the talented people in this country and making something out of this society together, not constantly dividing ourselves into these or those, the good or the bad people, those who think like this and those who think like that. I think that they are constantly dividing you in our society as if they were creating someone else who wants evil to Serbia, who is really taking big steps away from our entire environment, both in economic and in all other respects, and that's someone else who teaches us on permanent division, and then Serbia is a weak state. We here need to send messages that we need every man in this country and that everyone is worth it, and that we are working on getting those who at some point closer or further left Serbia to return, as our great violinist Stefan Milenkovic was thus encouraged, to return to Serbia after a number of years, to go to Novi Sad to work, to run our new concert hall, to teach at the Music Academy in Novi Sad. Our wish is, I don't doubt all of us here in the O.R., to be returned to us by all the hardworking people who have something to contribute to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2268	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2269	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, is today ahead of us a set of very important laws, and I will be based specifically on the proposal for a loan law between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to finance part of the Nis-Medara highway project. In the 21st century for the quality of life of people, for the faster flow of goods and services, quality infrastructure is a necessary prerequisite for the development of the economy. I can say that Serbia has made a major step in this direction over the past years, but I think that the main thing that is yet to come in the coming period, because it is only in the realization phase, or there are very important projects in the area of road infrastructure that will give additional wind in the back of our country's economic development. I am deeply convinced that, as with the whole of Serbia, both in front of southern Serbia is a great development perspective. The Nis-Medara project is extremely important for our country, but especially for the southern parts of our country, for the city of Nis, because building this part of the Nis-Medara highway and on the other hand the stock that will be financed by temporary institutions in Pristina, Nis will be highly connected, it will get a great road connection, with the headquarters of our southern province. Also, this traffic station is very important because it will complete one road connecting Nis, Pristina, Tirana and Durres. So Nis will thus be connected to the Adriatic and Ionian Seas, and on the other hand, we will allow a better relationship between Bulgaria, Serbia and Albania. Here I would refer to a part of the discussion, colleagues of Veroljub Arsic, about the criticisms we have already heard and which we will only hear from certain parts of the extraparliamentary opposition, as we are in charge, etc. But we've already heard criticism from another species that we don't need this highway, that this highway is in service so-called. Great Albania. I, and the citizens of Serbia, I suppose, are probably wondering where the border is, if there is an end to their hypocrisy. For example, a day or two ago, Vuk Jeremic published a video on social networks, with a comment on whether Kosovo was lost. It was this very Vuk Jeremic, who now deals with Serbian national interests, who received $120,000 from the Catharic Embassy in Washington in 2014. Two years later, in 2016, he received an additional $200,000 from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin. I wonder, and everyone who is guided by sound logic and common sense, why does the foreign land give such money to the Wolf of Jeremiah to the beautiful and beautiful eyes certainly not. Serbian citizens also remember well that at the time of Vuk Jeremic, who now takes care of Serbia's national interests in KIM, has been set up, or on his initiative, to question the International Court of Justice, whether the declaration of Kosovo's independence is in accordance with international law. We all know what the outcome is and what the court's decision was, and today, Albanians for a reason are celebrating Jeremic in Pristina. Serbian citizens also remember that during Vuk Jeremic, the issue of KIM has been moved from the UN to the EU. Also, Serbian citizens remember that at the time of Vuk Jeremic and his colleagues, Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, the border was set between Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak, and such people today dare to criticise a project like this, to speak of our national interests. I would ask those people, therefore, who are criticising the Nis-Medara highway - whether our countrymen with KIM, from Kosovo Pomoreva, have no right to a good path that will better connect them with Central Serbia; whether our countrymen with KIM have no right to a good relationship with Nis and Belgrade. For the Serbian Progressive Party, all citizens from Serbia are equally important, wherever they live, whether they live in Gracanica or Nis, whether they live in Belgrade or Chačka and Loznica. The policy of the Serbian Progressive Party and the president, Alexander Vukic, is that all people, wherever they live in the Republic of Serbia, have the same or approximately the same conditions for living in our country. Also, when it comes to the Nis-Medara highway, we must not drop sight and economic aspect, the economic benefit, because someone has already mentioned it during today's discussion, the annual distribution of our products to KIM is about 450m euros. By building this time we'll only make it easier, simplify this process, and, of course, make significant savings. The Serbian Progressive Party, namely President Aleksandar Vucic, is leading a policy of co-operation, a policy that is facing the future, and in this direction the president has initiated the formation of so-called. The mini Schengen that will include Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia, with the goal of improving economic co-operation in the region. The construction of this highway will give an additional impulse to regional economic co-operation between the countries mentioned. Of course, this Mini Schengen remains open to other countries of the region, too, I think of BiH and Montenegro. Serbia today is a stable country in both economic and political terms, a country that leads Serbian politics. Neither Russian nor pro-Western, but Serbian politics. A country that is strong enough to have the power to help its people in the region, alongside the network of highways it builds, in addition to the economy. Unfortunately, some countries in the region are strong Serbia is not responding. However, I can understand that in some ways, but I cannot understand that there are individuals in Serbia, but also political options that do not want strong Serbia, which do not want Serbia with new roads, Serbia in which citizens live decently from their work. So some in the Vucic region are bothered by the fact that Serbia, which apologized to everyone, who served as a punching bag, built a strong country, a country that was valued in the world. On the other hand, Gilasu, an example of working, Vucic is not responding, as it is an obstacle for him to get his hands on the state register again. So, for example, through the media that Gilas controls, lies, misinformation are constantly being served, related to fighting the coronary virus. I read one of those today on one of their portals. To these lies, the accusations, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia correspond to the work, results and citizens of what is most important, they recognize and we saw it in the June elections. I'll remind you that first, about a month ago, perhaps slightly less, we opened a new Kovid hospital in Belgrade, and seven days ago, a new Kovid hospital in Kruševec. How much Serbia has strengthened, how much economic progress it has made and the fact that during the former regime in hospitals we could possibly replace some doors or windows, and today in four months we build two new hospitals worth more than 100m euros with complete medical equipment. In the end, I would refer to a fact that has nothing to do with today's agenda, but we talked about it yesterday. In particular, it is one statement, one interview by Commissioner Branko Jankovic, given to RTS yesterday or the day before, that an inappropriate speech from the Assembly is being poured into the public, is being translated into public speech. I have to express a deep disagreement here with one of these findings, because Serbian citizens have the right to know the truth, and we as MPs have to call things a real name and use adequate expressions. So I'll take an example from my colleague Rističević. If a former MP physically stumbled upon him at the foot of the National Assembly, of course, we must use the term bully, because that is. If someone stole 619m euros from Serbian citizens, we'll say he's a thief, we can't use another expression. If I were to say that Dragan Djilas worked in the interest of the citizens of Belgrade, in the interest of Serbian citizens, Vuk Jeremic defended Serbia's national interests in Kosovo, it would be an inappropriate speech, because I would say noorous lies for this place. In the end, I will, of course, support this bill, because I think that every time, every meter of the highway is very important, because it means a step forward in strengthening the economy, a step forward in strengthening Serbia's standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2270	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2271	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I will talk about the additions of the Media Public Services Act, a supplement that provides for the budget of media public services to be touched from Serbia's budget in addition to the fees charged by citizens. During today's debate, we heard a lot of arguments about and against. We've heard a lot of arguments that say RTS can't be commercial television like a lot of others, simply because certain non-commercial content has to broadcast. On the other hand, some content that may be commercially interesting for many reasons cannot be broadcast, and in this sense it is in a subordinate position compared to other televisions and, in my opinion, it is only partly true. Why do I say it in part? You know that since the recent tax on RTS was 299 dinars, and we know that it was even smaller in previous years, but it also doesn't have to be forgotten that for many years the RTS tax, or the RTS subscription, was 500 dinars, and that's no small difference at all. When you look at the number of users at the monthly level, we can conclude that at that time RTS had several million euros in income more, and in parallel with that for some unknown reasons RTS gave up the share of its commercial income in favour of a private company, and it was the company "Darrekt Media", which was then owned by former Belgrade Mayor and former Minister Dragan Gilas, and today is owned, if I am not mistaken, by the United Group, owned by Dragan Šolak. So RTS left the company with a monopoly over their advertising space. That means that if you have, like, a company now and you want to advertise on RTS, you have to address the Darrekt Media. They bought seconds of advertising space at one price, and sold seconds at another price and made a difference, making millions and millions of euros. On the same principle, they made a monopoly over the entire media sky in Serbia and managed to make over 600m euros in all these companies traffic within a few years. What is particularly interesting is that money is being financed today by RTS competition, both N1 and Nova S and Sport Club and all other members of the United Group, so if you want SBB, which is a direct competitor to Telecom. So, Serbian citizens paid 500 dinars a month, therefore, drastically more than today, and RTS was leaving its profits from its advertising space to a private company that was then the owner of Belgrade's mayor. Then we came into a situation today that RTS can't buy the rights to transfer football teams to Serbia or, say, the rights to transfer the European football championship that are just following, because, I know, there's no money for it, and TVs owned by Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak, who were founded yesterday, have money to buy the rights to those transfers, and then Serbian citizens who pay the right to ask why we pay that subscription if we have to go to restaurants and bookshops to watch the team or worse, if we have to pay 600 or 700 dinars to Gilas and Solaku via the internet to be able to subscribe to these channels. So why are we paying that subscription and touching RTS further through Serbia's budget? A very similar situation is with these latest popular TV series, where the state of Serbia, and that Minister Gojkovic can say even more precisely, is giving up a lot of money for the film industry and for support for the recording of these series. These shows come to RTS, which has high ratings and is ultimately available to all Serbian citizens. These shows get a lot of popularity on RTS and then when the first season is over, when the second season of that series comes, all of a sudden these shows go to Gilas's and the School's media, because I guess RTS doesn't have enough money to buy the rights to these series, and Gilas and Solak have enough money to take all these most watched series and get a finished product that has a huge commercial benefit through various commercials, and on the other hand, to put many people in a situation, who don't have those channels, that they have to subscribe online again and to pay for these services at the monthly level. We have an entirely paradoxical situation that Serbian citizens have been heavily funded by RTS, and on the other hand, RTS has left part of its profits to private firms and not only has it had a financial loss but it has lost its relevance. Normally, it will lose to the relevance, if you do not convey some very important events that citizens are interested in, and this instead of you begin to do some brand-new televisions that have arisen, so literally to the robbery of RTS and the state of Serbia. A special paradox is that virtually these TVs run an open campaign against RTS. So you could see when the political wing of the United Group, headed by Dragan Gilas and Bosko Obradovic, fell into RTS with those motor saws and what they were doing there. No one on these TVs, such as N1 or Nova S, has condemned this event, but they have yet to try to imagine that some dissatisfied citizens are there, so it's their rebellion of dissatisfaction or I don't know what. So besides being directly damaged by RTS, they're running an unfeeling campaign and against RTS, but not just that. What is particularly obvious in recent months is a very aggressive campaign, of course, always against the president of Serbia and his family, which is 24 hours a day. You've also seen a major campaign against Telekom who, as you know, is a direct competitor of the SBB as a member of the United Group. You have seen a campaign against all the institutions in this country, especially against the National Assembly, against the MPs, against the new young MPs who are daily the target of satanization of several Gilas and Solakovic TV. You practically have journalists who have a job and a job to follow the National Assembly here all day long, waiting for a moment when someone will make a lapus, something to make a mistake, and then cut it up, mount it, and show it on their television, and in the worst way possible satanize especially young MPs, like my colleague, Luke Kebara, who is usually one nice guy, one of the best students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, who I don't even know why he's guilty of, so he didn't resell seconds on RTS, he doesn't have 30 apartments, but that's what Dragan Gilas and his brother Gojko Gilas have. I often hear an argument why don't you arrest Gilas when it's all true. It's kind of pointless for me to answer that question, because I'm a national MP and it's my job to represent my views and the views of my party and to fight for my city and my country, not to be a prosecutor and judge and to arrest anyone, even though we see today that there are many opposition politicians who imagine themselves in that role, so they're threatening to give us all our heads just when they come to power. What I am talking about in 2010 and 2011 was detailed by Verica Barac, then chairman of the Anti-Corruption Council. She literally described how the media octopus, Dragan Gilas, works. What she was saying couldn't be heard anywhere, especially it couldn't be heard on RTS. Just to tell you what it looked like, a quote in which she says: “RTS is a public service, funded from a subscription, and I think it gets money from the budget. When we asked for documentation, they paid the fine at the request of the Commissioner for information of public importance and delivered nothing. RTS is not making any financial reports or those financial reports are being controlled." So this was 2011. This basically means that, as if any of us were to form a company, make a deal with RTS to resell their advertising space, and then at some point when a state institution says, okay, you do it but let's just see these papers, then we make ourselves crazy and look at the ceiling, what kind of paper we're not interested in. To this extent, the haughtiness of the former government has been closed, so that no state institutions, such as the Anti-Corruption Council, could come up with any concrete data. I'm not going to talk about any more of the things my colleagues have been talking about, which concerns the functioning of these cross-border channels that violate many of Serbia's laws and create unfair competition with domestic television. I'll just say that I support this bill, but I really think that RTS must be a partner to citizens and the state in the future, not just a user of financial services, and that it has to work much harder on its marketing to get back, not just the losses he's had in the past in the way I've described, but also to restore some relevance. This means that if you are broadcasting the European handball championship for women, you must not feel that the commentator does not know the rules of handball. So that's one market that's very harsh, that doesn't forgive mistakes and where you have to perfect yourself every day, work on yourself, make progress, set targets and goals. If RTS doesn't do it, if it just relies on what it gets from the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, I don't think it will have a bright future and will soon be swallowed by very severe competition, especially this competition that was created in the robbery of the same RTS and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2272	Thank you. The word is by MP Petar Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2273	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Nis-Pristina highway is one of the very large and very important infrastructure projects, not only for the Cup, but also for the entire Toplice. It is a project that will introduce new energy into Toplice, which will bring to Toplice new jobs, attract foreign investors and make the citizens of Toplice better live and keep young people in our home area. The big mistake of previous authorities, or decades ago, is that Serbia had no clear idea what the infrastructure network in Serbia should look like. There were pointless paths that did not clearly connect with other routes and that served only to open magically and solemnly and to collect money from these highways. Since 2012, the Republic of Serbia has come up with one significant plan, which is the plan of a network of infrastructure projects that are important for the Republic of Serbia. They are significant because they influence the development of the whole of the Republic of Serbia, affecting Serbia becoming a credible partner to all foreign investors and allowing Serbia to connect not only within the state, but also to connect with countries in the region and with all the roads that exist in Europe. The Nis-Pristina highway is such a one-way route that represents an extension of the trans-European road route that Nis will connect with Prokuplje, and the Cup will further connect with Kursumlia, Merdar, Pristina, Tirana and Durres. Durres is an extremely important port and will allow all manufacturers located in Nis, Prokuplje and the entire Toplica to go to the Adriatic ports, to transport their products faster, better and safer, and that such products can be exported. You know, when one investor wants to invest in a country, some region, he is looking for a few important things, which are, firstly, that there is political stability in the country they invest in, and Serbia is a politically stable state, that the country is economically and economically stable, that it has a stable coin, and Serbia has a stable dinar course, has a strong and stable economy and a third very important factor is infrastructure. Prokuplje as a small town in southern Serbia, as well as the entire Toplica highway, Nis-Pristina, will receive a very significant traffic station. She will be able to offer investors a highway to transport goods. The city of Prokuplje next year ends an industrial zone with all necessary connections, so next to the highway, one transport safety, we will offer all investors a place where they will be able to build their own factory and where they will have all the necessary connections. The industrial zone itself will have a way out on the highway. During last year, the city invested over 200m dinars in the development of a local infrastructure network. This highway isn't important and it's not only important for the economy. The main road through the centre of Prokuplje was the highway Nis-Pristina, it was very burdened, both by passenger and freight traffic and was very dangerous for children, but also for all citizens and had a significant impact on pollution. By building a highway, we will get a bypass that will relieve city traffic, which will enable a healthier and safer environment for all Toplice citizens, and all citizens to connect with Serbia and the rest of Europe. Expension and the entire Toplice are not just an area that is economically good for foreign investors, but also an end that has a rich cultural, historical, which is significant cultural and historical, in fact, to say. I must remind you that the Buyout on this highway will be connected directly to Belgrade, and you from Belgrade will be able to visit the South Sudan Tower and the South Bogdan City in just under 2.5 hours to visit one of the oldest Orthodox churches. A little further you'll be able to tour the Neolithic settlement in Pločnik and introduce yourself to the place where modern metallurgy was created. If you continue a little further, you will be able to sleep over and rest in one of the beautiful spas in Kursumlia, which are: Kursumliska, Lukovska and Bane Break. A highway like this is important for the entire Toplice and it ensures the future of the entire Toplice and the whole of our neighborhood. I would like to point out that this highway is part of a larger vision. It is part of a "small Schengen", a vision of the president of the Republic who wants to ensure the peace and stability of the entire Balkans, the whole region, because only by common interest, a common struggle for economy and economy, we can build security and a future for our children. Although it is not an integral part of today’s work of the Assembly, I, as a health worker and as a doctor, simply cannot keep my mouth shut about certain headlines that appear on certain portals. A few days ago, I see that some quasi experts are saying that our health system is on its knees, that there's a difference between young and old patients and that old patients no one wants to look at. After 25 days of struggle with Kovid, and with the great help and struggle of all our health workers, Kovid was able to win. There is a difficult struggle ahead to fully recover, but this is a clear indication that all Serbian citizens have the same chance to live and heal, that there is no difference between old and young, that it is a single lie someone wants to place. Our health system is not on its knees, every citizen gets health care, gets care, and every citizen in Serbia has the support he needs in these difficult moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2274	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2275	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Honored Ministers Udovic and Associates, Honored Minister Gojkovic with Associates, allow me to say, before I go to the Law on Public Media Services, to thank you, Mrs Gojkovic, for all the insults you have suffered in this high house over the past few years. Just one sentence to say, since you know very well that I am in charge of data, one former MP, the president of one party, in two years, insulted you and the MPs 56 times with brutal insults. So much for an introduction. So, since my fellow MPs have already said a lot, let me still say that I will vote for public media services, it is about RTS and RTV, because it allows this law enough financial resources to be able to carry out its basic work uninterruptedly, and their basic activity is in the public interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the area of culture. This is really what it's all about. What is very important is to point out that it is a public service, and other televisions are also a factor in education and education, and that also means in that part of cultural activities. As RTS has done to ask me, I would say that it has done well, in that sense, and another television, we have to do it for the truth to say, it is "Pink3", especially if it is antifascist fluids that have been suppressed in the last ten years in all of Europe, because we have a revitalism of fascism, as you know, especially historians and others who follow in this part of Europe, where fascism is declared liberators, antifascists for fascists, etc. However, it is very important in the Public Service and the position of journalists. What's the state of that best known by those at the Public Service? They really need to be taken care of, both their education and their training and respect for the Journalist Codex. This applies not only to RTS and RTTV, but to all TVs, as well as other journalists working in other newspapers. While I am here, let me say that these days we are indeed witnesses, not only of us, MPs, but of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, permanent, daily, malicious, unworthy, unseen in the history of Serbia, media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and his family. I must say, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that never in the history of Serbia has any ruler received more votes and more attacked than one smaller group. Those shits really have to stop right now. The media attacks on Alexander Vukic are pre-emptive, this is my opinion, the mafia-tycoon and criminal-political, not political, but political groups and individuals, both domestic and foreign implementations. Those media attacks have gone deep into pathology. I'm undermining this in particular, but also criminal responsibility, and they're very dangerous to our president's personal safety. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is a democratic country, that we understand each other, so the criticism of the authorities is allowed even desirable because it acts healingly, but there is a huge difference between criticism and media attacks. Media criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts, and that is why it is socially beneficial to our entire society. However, certain individuals, whether owners or employees of certain lists, some on-call, analysts, and editors of some Sunday newspapers or NGOs are poisoning citizens of the Republic of Serbia with lies, inventions, brutal insults about the president of the Republic of Serbia and his family. You know, respected citizens and you distinguished MPs that I won't speak to you by heart. An example of one, a journalist on the daily list under the control of Dragan Gilas, I apologize, but I must tell him the name, Nenad M. Krstic, believe it or not, but it is true, he wrote, Mr. President of the Assembly, an open letter to the parents of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. In that letter, both parents and Alexander Vukic were unrecorded from Christendom to this day. I'm a historian, and I'd like one of the historians to tell me that they've ever been bigger and more brutal insults. What did they want with that, it's very important that the citizens of the Republic hear? They wanted to kill Alexander Vukic's parents and himself with that letter, but they were wrong. I now address Mr. Journalist, Nenad Krstic, as well as you respected citizens, only tiny souls kill others in the notion, because in them everything is unfortunate because they were not loved and never loved. That's the point. Dear President of the National Assembly, parents love each other with all their heart, just like the country. Parents are a source and motivation, and the parental presence in our lives gives us motivation, i.e. strength and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so the insult of parents is one of the greatest insults in our lives, and I guess in the lives of Alexander and Andrej Vukic. When parents see that some evil journalists, individuals, insult their son, the greatest possible insults, lies, fictions, it's not easy for them, especially if parents, like the Vucicians, were the support in his life and gave him strength and power, as respected citizens and all your parents to you. You, Nenad Krstic, will not be reciprocated because we do not want to build Serbia, as you want your mentor. We build decent Serbia, but you fight back. Just, Mr. Baptizer M. Nenade, I advise you to frame that letter sent to the president's parents and put it in your room to remind yourself daily of your superior journalistic range. Every morning when you wake up, stand up and look in the mirror, you will see in him a man full of hate. When you meet, and I'm sure you will, that Alexander Vukic and your president, and he is, as my friend Boris Tadic, I'm afraid that feeling of hate doesn't destroy you and God help you. Have you, gentlemen of the press, and your associations ever appeared for this outrageous act, offensive? Have the NGOs called? Of course they're neither. Insulting parents and threatening children is probably a crime, unless it's about Wolfich and his parents and his children. Second case. Journalist and cartoonist Petricic insulted President Aleksandar Vukic, the state of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in one list under the control of Dragan Djilas with brutal and most ground floor words. He said about the people and the president, quote, believe it or not, but it's true that he said, quote -- this people are unenlightened and naive, the first time we've ever had a leader to make fun of, he's a joke, we've got a leader to make fun of, we've finished a quote. Is this a hate speech, gentlemen from NGOs? Is this a hate speech, gentlemen journalists? Is this a hate speech, honourable MPs? It is not President Vukic's fault that the editor of "Politika" fired him for years, in which he took two to three thousand euros a month for only four, five caricatures. Mr. Petricic, it's not Mr. Vukic's fault that he came back from Canada as a failed cartoonist. We're wondering, is Mr. Petricic operated on morality when he said believe it or not, I quote, in the list, once, Vukic is one of the Fascism inspirers, and he adds, quote, - he's a lunatic, a maniac from the stadium, finished quote. Have you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honorable citizens of the Republic of Serbia ever heard that from the SNS and the coalition partners? Of course you're not in this high house, and you're out of this house. Petricic goes on and insults all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia when he says, I quote – Serbia is a country in which he lives, stupid, blind slavery, there is nothing good in it, there is an imbecileial and semi-literate world, all but the civil intellectual elite, finished quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, never in the history of the Serbian people since the time of the tribals has a single Serb and Serbian citizen waged his people and the state and its president as Gilasov Petricic. When you go for a walk, Mr. Petrich, stop, remember what you said. You may repent within yourself, perhaps, and if not, may the Holy Peter help you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the opposition led by Dragan Gilas these days says – if you did not say that Vukic is crazy, then you are not worthy of anything and you will be represented as his obedient dog, if you are not against Belgrade on water, if you are not against Stefan Nemanja monuments, if you are not against chickens in Morovic, against highways, new factories, and also the book of Goran Vesic, if you are not against Minister Vulin, Stefanovic, then do not expect to be experienced as a human being, but as a lunatic. I, the opposition gentlemen, am that lunatic. I don't give it up. If you do not say that everything here has failed from the health system to the RTS, which we are talking about tonight, if you are not an advocate of lustration, of the arrests of all who are for Vukic, then you are someone who needs to be kicked out of this Serbia, as I am respected by academic Dusan Teodorovic, who told me that I do not have citizenship. Just one sentence. Mr. Academy, when it was the bombing of our country, I found myself a professor in Pristina and a strange case, since there was no transport to Belgrade, I ended up in Podgorica and another bomb was welcomed, and the whole war I was conducting teaching, I was not late for a moment. Where have you been, academic? They fled to America, to the country that bombed us, and normally you came back when it was all over. And not only that, you said that Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia. Finally, the esteemed National Assembly President, on the day that Serbia as the third largest country in Europe, after England, Switzerland, when it began to vaccinate its population, which is, as we know, the 24.12.2020 year, a letter came to Brussels for Dragan Gilas, for Europe, because there are two passports, one for Europe, one for Serbia, in which Gilas complained, believed or not, respected citizens of Serbia, that there are no reliable data in Serbia on when and what vaccine the citizens will be vaccinated. Can you believe he's doing this? This shows not only how much he took while in power, 619m euros, but that Gilas is evil for the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Gilas also wrote to the European Commission in 16.9.2020, urging Serbia to become part of the Kovaks mechanism at a time when we, as Serbia, agreed to pay an advance with Kovaks, before suing Serbia and President Vukic in Brussels for his gratitude, behold, China for assistance during the first attack on the virus. It's called Serbia's disgrace and worse. We from the SNS won't fight back in a dirty way, but we will always point out that your mistakes are not done, that it is not good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because we are building a modern Serbia of decent people. That is why, gentlemen of the former regime, I urge you to join in the irrevocable process of Serbia's accelerated modernisation and in the times most difficult for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, at the time of Kovid 19, which is being conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of Serbia is our esteemed President Aleksandar Vukic, and all of this, Mr. President of the Assembly, because of the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2276	Thank you. National MP Boris Bursac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2277	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members of Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, is facing us today a set of very constructive, but also ambitious draft laws, and I would personally refer to the construction of the highway of Mira, i.e. to be more precise, I am talking about a bill to confirm the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is an extremely important project for Serbia for several reasons. The first reason is that this project is part of the Washington Agreement that we signed months ago, which proves that Serbia is a state of integrity, because it respects the international agreements it signed, unlike some other quasi states. Another reason is the fact that this highway will contribute to regional development, faster flow of goods, people, but also safer traffic. The third reason is very clear, but it also imposes itself, this and previously built highways and corridors position Serbia as a key traffic destination in this part of Europe. The construction of this highway will provide faster and safer transport to residents and businesses in southern Serbia, but also better infrastructure integration that will be an incentive for the development of new business opportunities. This agreement effectively closed the financial structure for the first section of the highway, i.e. provided funds to start building the first section of the Autoway of Peace. This highway, we must also note, will connect about half a million citizens of Serbia, especially those living in Pirotski, Nisavski and Toplički County, and would practically be another highway that would directly connect Serbia with the sea. At the end of the southern and eastern arms of Corridor 10, tourists from Serbia to Greece and Bulgaria practically did not get off that highway, and with the opening of the section of Corridor 11 from Surcin to Obrenovac, they have the highway "Milos Veli", all from Surcin to Cačka, which is the direction of the Montenegrin coast, while the Nis-Medarre-Pristina highway is practically allowing Serbia to exit to the Albanian port of Durres on the Adriatic Sea, because the road from Pristina is via Tirana to Drac, the Adriatic Sea itself, already built. We live in the Balkans and we are proud to be here and we want the best possible relations with our neighbours and with all peoples and peoples in the Balkans. It is evident that there are certain countries that run away from regional integration, but that is irrelevant to us. That is why I cannot help but disagree with the position of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who says the region should be the centre of interest for us. So we don't have to run from the region, but we have to do the most and that's where we have to make the most money. By building this highway, we are meeting this long-drawn goal, the goal of regional integration, and we are insisting on good relations with our neighbours. Despite the crisis caused by the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, we continue to invest in large infrastructure projects that are vital to our citizens, we continue to invest in the quality of our citizens' lives, work to attract new investments, work on wage and pension growth, and most importantly – we do not give up on the promises we made to citizens in the election campaign. First of all, I think of the plan "Serbia 2020-2025", and you will all agree, the highway-building project of peace is fully in line with this plan. The policy of the president of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, despite the crisis that has hit the whole world and us, is tearing down all barriers and opening up an economic perspective to move as fast as possible and as far ahead as possible. That is why I, and hopefully my colleagues, support and we will vote in favour of this, as well as other proposals, in the hope that they will support the fight for strong and modern Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2278	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Vladica Maricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2279	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am pleased to be able to discuss tonight the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the construction of the Nis-Medara highway, namely its first phase from Nis to Pločnik, in the length of 32.6km. This Nis-Medara highway, i.e. Nis-Pločnik, is part of the Peace Highway, which directly stands for President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as the wider economic, regional and peace initiatives launched by President Aleksandar Vukic, which should provide lasting peace in the Balkans, prosperity and progress for the people of the Western Balkans, where Serbia is the largest state and the Serbian people are the most people. Both Serbia and the Serbian people will benefit most from these initiatives. Those who criticise these initiatives do not actually believe in the vitality of the Serbian people and the power of the Serbian state, because they believe that these initiatives, both the Autoway of Peace and the Mini Schengen will benefit only other peoples, except Serbian and other Republika Srpska, and even those peoples will benefit against the Serbian people and against the Republic of Serbia. Such critics deny the facts, and the fact is that in 2020, the crown year, Serbia attracted 2.9 billion euros of foreign direct investment, which is 63% of the total foreign direct investment in the Balkans. It means that we use these initiatives and use the central position in the Western Balkans to improve the lives of our citizens. When the Autoway of Peace is over, Nis will connect with the port on the southern Adriatic, with the port of Durres. Nis is already connected to Thessaloniki and Bulgaria by opening the southern and eastern arms of Corridor 10 during 2019. When the Autoway of Peace is over, Nis will run the highways on all four sides. Nis will, in the right sense, be a crossroads of roads and a central point on the Balkan Peninsula. If we add that there is also an international airport in the city of Nis, which is also the largest airport in the Republic of Serbia owned by a country in which the state is continuously investing, as we have seen in the Budget Act that we recently adopted, where the funds for the development projects of Nis Airport are foreseen, then we can say that it creates huge opportunities for the further development of Nis and for the better life of Nislim and citizens of southern Serbia. It is a paradigm of success that the Serbian citizens have accepted in the past few years, and the citizens of Nis may be the most of all Serbian citizens, which President Aleksandar Vukic noticed and said at the opening of the Nis Science and Technology Park in June of this year, when he said that he had not seen people so eager, so hungry for his city and his fellow citizens, as it is in Nis. And why is that? Because by 2012, we called Nis the Valley of Hunger. There was no work in Nis, and there was no vision for young people. What was it? There was corruption. Yesterday we discussed the report of the DRI for the previous year, so I remembered the report of the DRI which controlled the public finances of the city of Nis in 2010. In 2010 alone, the DRI found about a billion dinars of misused funds from the city's budget, the funds of the citizens of Nis. The then-City government, led by the Democratic Party, characterised the DRI report as trendy. Imagine, the DRI report is trendy! Tendentious or not, they were filed in 2011 and for 2010 criminal and criminal charges against the leaders of most institutions in Nis. What did the citizens of Nis have in 2010, 2011 and 2012? Well, 36,000 Nišli in 2012 was unemployed and when the SNS took responsibility for running Nis and leading the country first had to work on was the opening of new factories. Thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, the first direct foreign investment comes to Nis in 2014. It's a Hong Kong factory called Johnson Electric. It employs 1,950 citizens in Nis today, and when the third phase of Johnson Electric investment is completed, which is currently under way and worth 50m euros, Johnson will employ 3,400 of my fellow citizens in Nis. After the first factory, another five followed, a total of six. In 2019 we finished with 22,000 Nišli on the National Employment Service records. So, 14,000 less than just seven years ago, but that's a lot. That's why we didn't stop there. That's why in the first quarter of 2020, during the state of emergency, another investment occurred during the first wave of the Nis corona pandemic. It is a Chinese ice plant of lighting, an investment worth 50m euros, which is due to employ another 3,000 Nišli. It is also another proof that no foreign investor who planned to invest in Serbia has given up due to the root crisis due to the pandemic of the virus's coronary. As for the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax avoidance and tax evasion with Japan, I can only welcome that agreement, as well as the agreement that we adopted earlier this week, because these agreements mean that between Serbia and these far-east countries, Asian tigers are intensifying economic co-operation, because where two economic systems do not overlap, they do not touch, where there are no international trade, and foreign investments are part of international trade, there is no need for such agreements, because there is no problem of double taxation and tax avoidance. So, direct foreign investment from those countries that are coming into our country, and I'll remind you, the other day, "Tojo Tyres" from Japan, laid the cornerstone for its factory in India, an investment worth 400m euros that will significantly contribute to Serbia's exports and improve our external trade deficit. As I said earlier, Hong Kong is the first investment to come to Nis in 2014. It is Johnson Electric, and I look forward to that in the next period, as counterpart Tomic has just announced, the National Assembly is discussing several more similar agreements avoiding double taxation and tax evasion. So it's a paradigm of success that the Serbian citizens have accepted over the past few years, it's faith in success that we're not worse than others. On the contrary, when we work hard and work hard, we can and must do much better, not only from neighbouring peoples in the Balkans, but from many peoples in Europe. Serbia is currently making the fastest progress in Europe. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-27-0.u2280	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it's half past seven and since the time has been exhausted, that is to say, the list of MPs for discussion, I am asking the promoters and the others... (Miodre Linta: President? Can I help you? Miodrag Linta: Is the time gone? It is. I want to thank the ministers. I will only draw attention to the fact that there are no amendments to international agreements, there can be no changes anyway, but there will be no amendments to this amendment and the addition of the Media Services Act, so there will be no discussions in particular. I thank them for coming, for their attention. I just want that since Pločnik is much mentioned here today, because those who are not from southern Serbia, from the Toplic region, and they don't know, Pločnik is not just part of some of our prehistoric history, Pločnik is the place of the great victory of the Serbian army, Emperor Lazar over Sultan Murat in 1386. When the Ottomans conquered Sofia, of course they easily won Pirot and Nis, we from Toplice would say of course, but they reached Toplice and couldn't go any further to Kruševec. Murat then returned to Turkey. I want to tell you, let this mention of Pločnik be announced by some new victories of Serbia, of course not in war, but in peace. I thank you all for your attention. I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 4. We'll be back tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., please ask MPs to insert their cards into the identification units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are currently 149 MPs present in the hall, i.e. at least 84, so that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan M. Markovic, Dr. Vesna Ivković and Justina Pupin Koscal. We continue our work and move on to a unique search on the 5th agenda - a proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020. According to Article 90(1), I would like to welcome them: Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Jadranka Joksimovic, Minister of European Integration Nikola Selakovic, Foreign Minister Gordana Comic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue and Maja Popovic, Minister of Justice. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the guests from the EU Delegation in the Republic of Serbia, Mateju Norčić Štamcar, the envoys of the delegation's affairs, Leonetta Pajer, the second delegation's secretary, Gordana Arakic and Tamara Kostro, advisers to the delegation, who will be followed by a search from the Gallery on our call. We also invited representatives of the National Convention for the EU. You have received a proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report, which was submitted by a group of 15 MPs. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by proportion to the number of members of the group. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 192. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the draft conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020. I must say that on the initiative of the Prime Minister, which we have discussed with the President of the Republic, we have agreed in some way to start with this practice and that perhaps today this seems in some way still a procedural examination of how we are actually going to do it in the future, because so far it has never happened to discuss the report of the European Commission in this way. We are, in essence, not discussing the European Commission in plenary, but discussing the proposal for conclusions submitted by our members of the Committee on European Integration. In that sense, the proposing representative is MP Elvira Kovac and I give her my word. Here you go.
