ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70248	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that there are 56 MPs present. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking a question on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Will the Serbian government also make a decision on returning part of pensions that are anti-constitutional and against the law taken by Serbian citizens? It is well known for all of us that, as part of Serbia's financial and economic recovery, salaries have been reduced for government employees, in state institutions, but pensions have also been reduced for many pensioners who have provided their work and long-term internships as something they should enjoy and that, in the end, they are using everything they have done for the past 20, 30, 40, as who, the years have done. The government has decided to cut pensions, on a percentage view, much more than the percentage of the government's staff cuts. This is not the total pensioner's Corps in Serbia, but it is also a significant part of the Corps that is damaged. Several have already filed requests to the Constitutional Court to protect their constitutional law. The Constitutional Court has reached out as incompetent. We have listened to interpretations that the Constitutional Court is proportionate, that it is not a right acquired, that the pension level can be governed by decisions or regulations of the Government and what we have not listened to. Now it's just a little bit of time to name it all. We in the SRS have repeatedly started to discuss this issue and made it clear to you, especially when adopting a new budget, or the Budget Law, to provide for an item for the possibility of returning to damaged pensioners what was taken from them. On the other hand, we've heard an explanation of how multiple returns have been made more than they've been taken. However, this is not based on logic, and is not particularly based on the law. So that Serbia, as a state, would not be in a position to return to its citizens, in this case damaged pensioners, on the basis of the International Court's decision to return what is due with a tight interest, it is best for us Serbian radicals to make a decision on the obligation to return the work taken by pensioners as soon as possible. We Serbian radicals are aware of the fact that at this point there may be no real means to compensate for the package of everything that has been taken from the pensioners, but that decision will open up the possibility that conditions will be created to correct this injustice. You are one of those who continue to return property, as it is said, in restitution, property that was once taken from the owner, so you return that property to their heirs now. There are different cases. There are cases where heirs have no idea who their ancestors are, or that they're related to blood or any family relationship. Do not let it fall upon you, to return to the descendants of the pensioners you took away, or to reduce their incomes. There is still time, if the government makes such a decision, it will also mean a lot, not only to pensioners, but to all citizens in terms of security and their assets and their capital and personal security. If you still think that you're going to explain by paying more than you say, than you've taken, then it's no guarantee in the future, especially not a guarantee for those who not only receive pensions or salaries, but also for those who have savings, because you can decide tomorrow and save in the same way to alienate.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70250	Thank you. The word has Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70251	Thank you. Dear Presidents of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I ask the question to the Government – can it improve the will towards the Albanian minority? My current definition and my party's definition of being constructive did not give the results we expected from the government. The government and state in general do not want institutional co-operation with the Albanian minority, and now the lack of goodwill in the country shows a very bad picture in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja in the economic development of agriculture, tourism, education, health and integration of the Albanian minority in state authorities and institutions. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that national minorities have the right to minority self-government, but this is difficult to reach. Albania's national minority representation in state authorities and public services is very poor. The very fact that we have been in this home for 30 years and always in opposition shows that Serbia has no good will to integrate the Albanian minority. We wanted to start solving some specific issues and slowly reach the other minorities, but it didn't work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70252	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70253	I would like to thank the President. In view of the media campaign against the foreign minister and the first vice-president of the Serbian government, Ivica Dacic, which is being forced by individuals from quasi-elitist circles, as well as by individual parties among whom the Montenegrin party in Serbia presided over, about the alleged inappropriate statements by Ivica Dacic on the status of Montenegrins in Serbia, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I ask the question to the Serbian government – what is not true in the statements of Ivica Dacic, when it comes to Montenegrins in Serbia? Is it true that many Montenegrins live in Serbia? Is it true that the significant number of Montenegrins is highly positioned, as in the economy, in the public sector, especially in politics. Is it true that none of the Montenegrins in Serbia are discriminated against, that they all have rights that enjoy the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that, compared to all the other citizens, they are not put in a more unfavourable position in any way? Is it true that in any of Ivica Dacic's statements, no discriminatory word, statement, question, attitude or anything like that has been expressed? Is it true that on the other hand in Montenegro, which lives near 30% of Serbs, very few Serbs are employed in their public sector, the public sector of the state? Is it true that in political circles, especially where there should be those represented by the ranks of national minorities, they are adequately represented? It has an extremely small number of Serbs or almost nothing. Is it true that Serbia's language and Serbian letter in Montenegro are at risk? Is it true that one inappropriate way is being led against Serbs in Montenegro, I will not say fighting, but the relationship that implies, perhaps a harsh word of oppression, but in any case something that does not mean respect for the rights of the citizens of the country, or Montenegro? Given that there are facts that are becoming increasingly publicised, that Montenegro has begun to ban through its institutions something that implies freedom of expression, thus prohibiting the tricoloring and drawing of a three-color, which is the legitimate right of any citizen, and thus does not question any threat to Montenegro's territorial integrity or sovereignty, given that the president of Serbia's state, foreign minister and government respect the integrity, sovereignty of Montenegro? Is it true that despite this in Montenegro, Serbs are experiencing discomfort? The teacher in Bar, threatened with disciplinary punishment, for giving the founding fathers the task of drawing a symbol protesting the Law of Freedom of Religion, the symbol of the three-color Yugoslavia. Why? Because that school in Bar is called Yugoslavia. Given the fact that the public is increasingly promoting anxiety or the danger of repression, which could be carried out by the Montenegrin authorities, because repressive measures are being prepared, when it comes to fully legal and legal protests, a large number of citizens, I will repeat Montenegro, among which is the most Orthodox religion, that something can be applied to them that would be least inappropriate, but in any case severe form of depression, with severe consequences. In the end, I ask the Government whether such a policy led by diplomacy with Minister and First Vice-President Ivica Dacic is implemented, whether the protection of the vital interests of the Serbian people in Montenegro is correct or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70254	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Marijan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask my question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You, and I think all viewers also know that my smallness, as well as a few of my colleagues, has been addressed with a question in Serbia, unregistered media. So I again question the government of the Republic of Serbia, what will it do about the outrageous pressure of N1 TV on Telekom, A.D. in which the state has majority capital. We came in a position to be blackmailed, first unregistered parties, so-called. movements, which are actually NGOs, covert political unregistered parties that play the system, and play the law on political parties, which prescribes that the political party must have thousands or 10,000 signatures. Several and a dozen opposition political parties are not registered to act politically, but are being held in the register of citizens' associations, and these are parapolitical organisations such as the Free Citizens' Movement, Janko Veseinovic, the Turnover Movement, left Serbia, etc. The Law on the Registration of Political Parties has been passed by precisely those who are now fleeing to various DJBs, etc. They're playing the system, they've established it themselves. We have come in a position to be blackmailed by classical NGOs, such as Antonijevic, various societies, etc., who are actively working with a foreign factor, in blackmailing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the People's MPs, other political parties, wanting to say that we are engaged in unfair elections, and if all the elections since 2012, were held by the rules of these very unfortunate people who are today boycotting the work of the National Assembly and trying to boycott the elections. In the end, she joined, what I had predicted for N1 television, a spokesman for the Šolakovics and Gilas businesses. I also claimed that we had no problem with the opposition, but that we had a problem with Solakov and Gilas's business, represented by some unfortunate people who boycott the work of the National Assembly here and who call themselves the opposition. I don't think they're the opposition, I think they're some unfortunate and physical labor force of Solak and Gilas. The last thing they did to allegedly prove that censorship, a "N1" television that was not registered in Serbia, was that Solakov and Gilas TV, gathered in United Media, so 20 unregistered channels, began to blackmail Telecom, disfellowshipped themselves from Telecom, ordered that an active campaign be ruled out on an alleged censorship campaign, which will be applied in the election campaign, as it is reportedly going to do so. It's not true, of course. I ask them and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- is it even normal for foreign television stations, unregistered in Serbia, to influence the election campaign on political conditions and the result of elections in Serbia? Imagine what Americans would do, they would declare it a foreign agent, surely, if there were a lot of Russian television, Belarusian, Serbian etc., and to influence the result of the election in the campaign, for the election of the American president, or the election of the American Congress, Senates, etc. I don't think the media would last three days. Imagine the position, when unregistered political parties are in favour of conditions, when parties bought by MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia talk about stealing votes, even though buying MPs stole over 120,000 votes, when unregistered televisions themselves are excluded from cable operators and demand 38 TV, on the cable operator, to pay fourm euros a year or it will be censorship. What will the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other competent authorities do to prevent and seduce order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70256	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70257	I thank the chairman, my question will refer to the economic migration of young people and the key problem that is for all young people and their families in Serbia. Unemployment, economic problems, security, socio-political situation and the work of local self-government. So these are the problems that young people have caused in their research to bother them the most and therefore affect the quality of their lives and therefore decide to emigrate from the country. Young people, as the main motives for leaving Serbia and for finding happiness elsewhere, seek conditions for business advancement, better and better quality of life, healthier life, quieter, less corruption, employment opportunities, etc. What concerns us most is the official data that youth unemployment is twice the country's overall unemployment, at 24.4%. However, relevant data say that this number is much higher, because of these 24.4% are only data from the National Employment Service, while this number does not take records of young people who have left the country, the number of those who do jobs in the gray zone, those who do temporary jobs and occasional jobs. Also, the National Employment Service deletes from its unemployment records those who do not report at the agreed time or those who reject the offered job that is almost always below the criteria that young people seek. So, considering all of this, we consider youth unemployment to be greater than 24%. Limited employment opportunities and high unemployment leave young people little choice. Some of those who haven't left the country yet, unfortunately have to take insecure, underpaid jobs, jobs for which they're overqualified, jobs where they don't get a chance to meet their social security. The allocations for active employment measures were 0.88% of GDP in 2017, well below the planned 0.5%, and this is planned to be spent between 2011 and 2020, according to the Youth Strategy, brought in 2015. So my question goes to the Youth and Sports Ministry, and it says -- what concrete measures have the Youth and Sports Ministry taken in terms of youth employment in Serbia, and how would it achieve the goals foreseen by the National Strategy? Therefore, the National Youth Strategy for the period 2015 to 2025 was adopted in 2015. So, five years ago, and we youngsters don't see that there has been an improvement in working conditions and employment among our categories. Also, when I'm in this topic, I would refer to young people from the "One of Five Million" association who have become the main subject of showing, now already the opposition, so the works of the opposition represented by the former government, and thus show that what we are saying all the time, so there is no difference between the former government and the current government, have felt in their own skin. So you have become, unfortunately, the very instrument of some people who, through the protests, wanted to make their own parties, to make their own committees, and in the end, it turned out to be exactly what we were talking about, from the Modern Serbian Party, so that the protests were not the ultimate goal, but were just meant to be the means to improve our struggle in parliament. So, we welcome your decision to go to the next elections, that in the only legitimate way you are affecting the improvement of your situation and we want to say that our pro-European list, which will go out in the next elections, will be home to you and to anyone who dreams of a European, free and orderly Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70258	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70259	Thank you. I've often asked the government a lot of questions from this place, and I'm counting on this afternoon to have a chance to ask them directly. That is why my question today, or address, is being addressed to the National Assembly’s address book, and about all these events and unfavorable scenes, and not just yesterday, but all that we could see in the congregation in the last weeks and months. I have a very specific proposal that can be easily met, it will not solve all our problems, nor make the situation in the assembly and relations ideal, but it may be a small contribution in that direction and at least disagree with my reasons or reasons why I propose this, I don't think anyone can have anything against it, because that's a contribution, transparency, I would say to some formal regulation of relations in the National Assembly, and these relationships are not good and everyone sees it, whether we're used to it or not, whether we're Googled or not, whether we're citizens see it, that the public sees and all of this together contributes to one bad picture of the Assembly, as the highest presidential body, or the body of the presidential authority in general, regardless of what part of the political scene they like. I would suggest that, therefore, there is a purely formal, even technical thing, that, in the future, the time clearly stops in the transmission, that is to say, this clock that we have in the internal, this internal, internal, congregational transmission, it appears, the time of exposure, or as much as anyone is speaking from the speakers. It's known how much the authority speaks, how long the parliamentary question lasts, how long the replica lasts. We have witnessed that very often, especially to the representatives of the government, or the ruling coalition, but still, some and others, it doesn't matter, tolerance of the replica, not those 10, 15 seconds more to end the thought or sentence, it's all right, but let's say, literally, three, four or five times longer. After eight and ten minutes, replicas that usually last for two minutes. I don't think there's a reason. This violates the principle of equality and procedure that is very important for the work of a body like this. Of course, it will not change wonders or character, nor the nature of many, nor the content of many speeches and speakers, but it will still be a small contribution to editing. So that's something that can be easily solved. We don't need a change of Rules of Procedure, we need one, I'd say, an internal decision to say, that hour, that time of exposure that we see here, so we often look over there to the side, to be visible to the viewers on TV. It's on one side. It is mentioned here that a part of the MPs boycotts the work of the National Assembly. I do not agree with their decision and I deal with political and all the other consequences for it, but I must admit that not only for me, but for everyone, but also for the leadership of the Assembly when we talk to foreigners or some representatives of international communities or me when I talk to some of my colleagues or citizens and who have a different view of this key or fundamental matter of staying and working and working in the National Assembly, it would be much easier and more convincing for me to respond, as probably also the President of the National Assembly when they call it or when they address it, if we had a better situation and better relations in the Assembly. Someone will say it's already too late, but it's never too late to make a little move in a positive direction. So I could explain that there are fewer painful scenes, that there are fewer violations of the Rules of Procedure, that less of what we saw, not only yesterday but also the last working day of December, on the last working day of that autumn session, all of those scenes are painful, regardless of whether we blamed and who we blamed as the main cause of these unpleasant scenes, that work is a little more formalizing and courteous. There is the greatest responsibility for you presidents who are not easy, I am aware of it, but I think they should simply less bend before or pressure at the moment or sympathy of their political or political authority, whether it is about ministers from the government, whether it is about leaders of the ruling parliamentary majority. But I'm saying, if we stick to the Rules of Procedure more, there'll be a little less of these unpleasant scenes and incidents that violate this Parliament's dignity in general, and they're poisoning political life at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70260	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70261	Thank you, Chairman. I ask questions on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, and regarding our colleague Ana Stevanovic's doctorate. The co-worker in question is Gilas's public who calls others plagiarists and asks for the resignation of some members of our government, of course in order to dispel suspicion from her, at the very least I can say, a suspicious doctorate. In 2016, Ana Stevanovic was elected MP from the list Sasa Radulovic "The Movement Is Enough" and it is not a coincidence because her mother was just employed by the Anti-Corruption Agency. In this way, Sasa Radulovic was distracted by the Anti-Corruption Agency. This Regulation shall enter into Ana Stevanovic becomes a member of Gilas's party's presidency "Freedom and Justice", and then gives a statement that she fully understands people who have been breaking into RTS with motor saws, as well as their reasons and motives. In this same interview, she points out that her areas most familiar with culture and information are. I would remind the public that just in 2017 she was here in the Assembly Hall following a lecture on the behaviour of some MPs in the street cursing, quoting: "Come on, everybody." And so much for her culture and information. But let's get back to her doctorate. In 2015, Ana Stevanovic doctored the Faculty of Drama Arts in Belgrade and the name of her doctoral dissertation bears "The creativity of managers and the impact on organisational innovations of culture institutions". Her mentor was Professor Tijana Mankic. Dr. Ana Stevanovic's plagiarism is suspected of supporting the fact that some former members of the National Council of Higher Education have established with insight into the doctorate that certain texts have been copied from some other scientific works. First of all, Michelle Manford's author is thought of, where certain parts of the text are clearly copied, i.e. translated from English into Serbian from word to word. It's also interesting that only one side of her doctoral dissertation has a dozen letters of error, but it's not just one side, but it's often repeated in doctoral dissertation, and I'm sure you agree with me that this is unacceptable for one doctorate. This claim is also supported by Mr. Mario Spasic, who had insight into this doctorate. This is certainly the reason for the doctorate of Ana Stevanović to be examined, but without pressure and blackmail, such as the opportunity and practice of reviewing and making decisions on the academic dishonesty of individual PhDs. We of the SNS advocate that the arches are equal for everyone. The reason why there is doubt that it is clear is that Belgrade University's rector has allowed decisions by the Committee on Professional Ethics to be made under pressure and blackmail. We have just witnessed that two days ago students who rated Belgrade University's rector decided to go to the polls and that as a group of citizens, "1 out of 5 million". It is certainly unimaginable, given that they are a political organisation, not something else as they presented themselves. And that it's against an independent institution like it's supposed to be a university. Our President's proposal, Alexander Vukic, for all PhDs to be digitized and thus available for plagiarization, is certainly justified from the aspect of academic integrity. The Belgrade University's rector at RTS also spoke of this a few days ago, but repeatedly reiterated that this is an expensive process and that it is now possible to conduct only today at three universities in Belgrade. Also, on that same occasion, she said negotiations between the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and KONUS on funding the re-examination of doctoral dissertations, so she would also ask the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development on this occasion – how long did these negotiations take place? Finally, I appeal once again that Mrs. Ana Stevanovic's doctorate is reviewing whether plagiarism, within as short a time as possible, and that the principle of academic integrity applies to everyone, but literally to everyone, regardless of whether they support Gilasov or any other policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70262	Thank you, colleague. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? (No) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. We would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Dubravka Filipovski, Biljana Pantic Pilja and Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Professor Dr Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Minister without portfolio, Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Miladin Kovacevic, Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, Filip Shanović, Deputy Assistant Minister of Finance, Ana Tripović, Executive Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance, Snezana Lakcevic, Assistant Director of the Republic Office for Statistics, Zoran Jancic, Assistant Director of the Republic Office for Statistics and Ivan Stelić, Independent Advisor of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance. You have received amendments submitted on the proposal by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Miljan Damjanovic and Marijan Risticevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70263	In principle, the Serbian Radical Party has expressed its position in the principle debate when it comes to this proposal to amend and supplement the law, with a stressed fear of taking account of and how Serbia is in charge, regardless of whether it is on the credit line or broadcasting of securities of value. The fact that someone wants to show that Serbia's economic power, on the basis of the total public debt, is so much that it can serve this public debt, it is not so reliable, it is no longer a marketing part, or propaganda part of the policy that is being conducted in Serbia. It's not that alarming, the truth works, but it can't exactly serve to relax and to sneak into the fact that Serbia is growing stronger and stronger economically, it is within Serbia that some relations have been arranged when it comes to finance. But when it comes to international obligations, when it comes to debt, that's all we've said, Serbia's public debt is about 24 billion euros. It is now shown that the total GDP has been reduced by a percentage. We're used to that. It's a statistical malversion, i.e. through statistics, to change the methodology of the calculation and then you get a decrease in depending on what your base is, do you take it according to the dollar or the euro, so you can calculate and express different percentages in terms of GDP. And that's the only reason why the SRS is simply warning, be careful, be careful.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70264	Thank you, colleague Mircic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70265	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act will provide a larger base for potential investors to invest in domestic securities of value. The provisions of the Capital Market Act will also be brought into line with the provisions of the Public Debt Act. Speaking of public debt, I would like to remind you of some information that we had the opportunity to hear in the principle debate, but also earlier in November and December when we discussed budget rebalancing and the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. In 2008, public debt rose from 8.7 billion to 17.7 billion dinars. At the end of 2018, public debt was 23 billion dinars, but that does not mean that it was an increase in debt, as public debt participation in GDP was reduced to 51.3%. If we look at the deficit in the 2008-2012 budget, the values ranged from minus 2.5 to minus 6.4%. Years after that, the public debt actually covered those deficits. In 2014, the debt was 70% of the PDB, and then it started falling and came to slightly more than 50% of the PDB. This data shows that it's a public debt...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70266	Please just take a few minutes. You will continue, colleague. Excuse me, colleague, please. I hope that my fellow journalist and photographer will be able to assist professional service. Here you go. Excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70267	Thank you, Chairman. So, as I was saying, this data shows that the public debt is now under control. The increase in public debt started in 2008. Serbia is on the international capital market and we have had two successful euro bond emissions. This affects our country's further economic development and needs to maintain efficiency in the capital market and preserve investor confidence. Serbia has for the first time a euro bond emissions over a 20-year period, and this long period is just talking about investors having confidence in our economy. It is also about Serbia connecting to European markets. In this regard, it is good that Serbia has opened Chapter 4 in negotiations with the EU, which concerns the free movement of capital. All of this needs to be put to the vote for this proposal, because it will help to some extent to maintain the credibility of the economy that we have raised to a satisfactory level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70268	Thank you. I'm sorry to interrupt you again. The word is made by MP Ivan Bauer, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70269	Thank you. I'd like to rely on this discussion of my colleagues. I'm going to start off with one of the questions I got on one of the social networks, and about my discussion when I was as an authorised representative talking about this law. The question was, why is it that when the government and the state stand so well financially, that is, when we have such good finances, as the gentleman says, why are we in charge? Well, you don't have to mix those two things up. Being a good financial person is one thing. That doesn't mean we have enough resources to finance at some point all the projects we're doing at that point. And we, I'll remind you, have started a number of projects over the past few years, and we announced our programme by 2025 huge investments, especially in infrastructure. Such projects are impossible to fund, I don't know what surplus in the budget we should have in order to finance such projects from the budget. The second thing, the interest rates at which we're in debt, especially when we're talking about a set of these laws that are currently on the agenda, are so small that someone's practically paying us to take the loan. Not literally, of course, we're going to have to pay off that loan, but the interest rate is lower than inflation. So the interest rates on these loans we take are lower, they are in euro, and interest rates are lower than inflation in the euro area. So, practically, the interest rate is negative. So we're taking extremely favourable loans. As for the misunderstandings regarding our level of duty, here, and colleague Zaric Kovacevic said, in the last five years, we have reduced our duty by more than 20% of GDP. Our duty, the prime minister said a few days ago, fell below 50%, which will say, if we continue at this pace, we can reduce our duty to a level of 45% by the end of the year, which I will remind you, is prescribed by the Budgetary System Act, which was brought long ago and broken, when it was brought in, because in that period, our debt to GDP was growing dramatically. It is our duty, let's say, at an absolute amount of 24 billion or 23.9 billion, I think, exactly. But it's a much more important parameter of what the debt is compared to GDP, because you're returning that money from that GDP. So that parameter is evident and clear as day very important. As for the structure of our debt, here, as I recall, two days ago Minister Sinisa Mali said – we have just reduced the structure in the past few years, improved the structure of our debt, or reduced the participation of the dollar debt in the total debt. Why? Because the dollar has proved to be growing over the last few years compared to the euro, and these US loans, of course, are much less appropriate at this point in terms of interest on them being higher because when it is growing compared to the euro, and our currency is truly tied to the euro, among other things, and because of our EU accession process, and another part because we are still euro-based, therefore, it is our responsibility to borrow more in euros, we have reduced, we have improved the structure in terms of reducing the share of dollar debts in total debt. So, I don't think there's really any reason to worry about our borrowing, especially when it comes to the percentage of our debt's participation in GDP, and by opening up opportunities for foreign investors and funds to appear on our market and to buy our government bonds, it's just going to reduce the interest rates at which we're going to be in debt. I'll remind you that in some other times we've been in debt at much higher interest rates. So today, we can be in charge of our domestic bond market at lower rates, return these expensive loans, and thus further reduce the participation of our debt in GDP. So everything we're doing, I see as absolutely positive in this sense, and I don't see any reason to be worried about our duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70270	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Prof. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70271	Dear gentlemen, I was talking about it yesterday, and now I'm going to do it again. Money's cheap stuff. It's never gonna make money cheaper than it is now. So it's not a credit and debt problem, the problem is if we know, and we know where we're going to use that money. What's already said, never interest rate, capitalisation, time is not and will not be more favourable than now. I stand for it, regardless of the public debt that decreases, etc., that credit should be taken, because the situation is never more favourable to borrowing if we know what we're going to invest in. Therefore, I do not support the proposal for this amendment. I think this is a good move right now and it's a good idea to take credit. He would still advocate that loans be taken in dollars, if possible, converted to the euro for reasons I have repeatedly explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70272	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zarko Bogatinović, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70273	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, it is of great importance for our Serbia to maintain financial and economic stability. I'd say that's decisive. In the previous period it was affected, the causes we won and removed from power in 2012 never to return. They were treated, so to speak, by balances and states and banks, and now it's time to act preventively, to pre-warn any crisis and be ready once for everything that awaits us, our state and our financial banking system in the future. The hunger for taking risks in the banking sector is mostly a positive thing, as funds are being placed on the economy and the population, but we have decided on a security system. After many years of wandering and stagnation, the period during which it was almost impossible to find a job, this 2019/20. For years, we have witnessed a situation where the citizens of Leskovec have a choice where to hire. For the first time in 30 years, employers have been forced by market reasons to improve the conditions regarding wages and the quality of the working environment, as workers in Leskovac can now quit to a bad employer and find a better job immediately. This isn't just a story. There are still citizens on the side of the offer who want a job, but the situation has changed. There is now a question of pay and working conditions, and workers are looking for better conditions because they are offered greater opportunities. I'd say the first step is the key goal of our operation to get people to work, now it's time for the second part, and that's the pay hike, because one doesn't go without the other. All of this would not have been possible if in 2012, a very important reform of stabilisation, a return of confidence in our financial system, a reform that took time, in view of the disastrously inherited situation in 2012, and these are facts. We watched the fluctuations every month from 118 to 125 dinars per euro. Someone from that yellow government, before 2012, put that speculative money in his pocket. Let's remember the faceless robbery of state banks by the same fake Europeans. Stabilising the course, inflation is an exceptional achievement of the current leadership of the National Bank of Serbia, headed by Governor Tabakovic. An ambience was created in which employers wanted to create jobs in my Leskovec and as a positive consequence of the fact that citizens could find jobs and get higher salaries. A stable environment is for major fluctuations in course during this long time period is a really great achievement, because it was never with us. Inflation is under control, investment production can also be planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70274	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70275	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, I would like to introduce to the public the recognition that the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, received from the prominent and influential magazine "The Banker", which is part of the "Fincial Times". In fact, London's "The Banker" moonstone has awarded an annual award to the best global governor and to the best European governor. I don't remember any governor from the former government getting an international award from anyone or a confession, which makes sense, because they really didn't have any success. The recognition is awarded on the basis of a decision by the magazine's editorial and survey of bankers and economists and is assigned globally to Europe, North and South America, Asia, the Pacific, the Middle East and Africa. It was awarded a prize for encouraging growth and stabilising Serbia's economy. Thanks to the results of leading the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia, citizens of Serbia live better, they can plan their lives and jobs easier, and businessmen have predictable and stimulating conditions for business. Consistent implementation of monetary policy and successful coordination with fiscal policy have achieved results that keep market participants' confidence in economic policy holders and make growth sustainable in the coming years. In short, I will remind you of what has been done to ensure security and restore confidence in the capital market. In 2019, the dinar increased by 0.5%, and the dinar savings increased by about 30% during 2019. Serbia's gross foreign exchange reserves increased by 2.2 billion euros to 13.5 billion euros, while the share of gold in foreign exchange reserves increased from seven to 10%. Serbia is the only non-EU country included in the list of countries for which preferential investment treatment is possible. Two new chapters have also been opened: Chapter 9 - Financial Services and Chapter 4 – Free movement of capital. All the measures to be taken will always aim at raising the standard of living and promoting better business conditions for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70276	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70277	It's just for a short time for my colleague's presentation. I don't dispute the good results and balances that the National Bank has achieved and I want them to be even better, but I would only intervene on one thing, since she said in the form of a question – did anyone from this space ever get such an important recognition as the Governor of the National Bank? I would like to remind you that there have also been cases for the mandate of previous authorities, previous governments that ministers and high officials, and even governors have received some awards. Now we can argue how prestigious, how respectable, how not. They also praised them very much and the news was flooded with this data about their good results and rewards and international valorisation of these results. Minister Dinkic was at least once, and I think he was rewarded several times. Also prominent as the best minister, if I am not mistaken, the best finance minister in Southeast Europe or Eastern Europe or the minority across Europe. Now they're getting it all over the world. I don't know if it's been around the world, but the prize certainly said it was Southeast Europe. So, the best minister. We know what happened with that and what the balances and the results of these best ministries were. I want to say some confessions are, as we know, and diplomas are, unfortunately, bought, as we know, let alone confessions. I don't want to be proud of this part, but then they convinced us it was respectable. What I'm trying to say is that citizens, after all, know best how they live at the end of the ballad and how the government works, no matter how much that government convinces them to do great. When I took the word, to answer the colleague who did, he didn't mention me to the explicit, but he said. One authorised representative spoke yesterday, so he mentioned practically my presentation about the public debt increase warning, namely these duties that we, among other things, are going to adopt today's set of laws, as we are likely to adopt tomorrow, i.e. this Assembly. So I collected these duties and came to the conclusion that they were about 430m euros and warned, and that I think and the meaning of this amendment and this exposure just before my colleague Mircic, he will correct me, that he should still be careful with those debts even when they act favourablely and positively. Of course it's important that the interest rate is low but I said that the fact that the capital market situation is now such that it can be very cheap and easily borrowed. Apart from these laws, i.e. the confirmation and acceptance of guarantees and responsibilities that we will adopt, I say, today or tomorrow, the Government of the Republic of Serbia issued bonds yesterday and yesterday, both dinar and foreign currency, which are around 200-220, as much as 250m euros in total. So you're dinar, making foreign bonds for another 250m euros, at the end of this. So it is also said that they are very favourable and that it was a great demand and that we were able to betray more, i.e. We sell the bond, it stands in that news, but they're not good and they're on the long term and that interest, if I'm not mistaken, here's what my colleague Arsic has been gestured here, he'll probably say something to the team about it. I think 3.5% of the interest on one of these types and on the other is also that series of bonds. That's what they say, and it was a great demand and rush. Of course it was a great demand, given that it is now very favourable. It's hardly possible to buy something more favourable on the capital market now, because as we said interest falls. So, those who have decided to buy these bonds are probably part of the trust that you will be given back and that's what you, what your government colleagues want to potentiate. But it's certainly an opportunity for them to make a very good living, because it's hardly possible for such a placement to be realized somewhere else, knowing that these interest rates are moving, as we said the previous days and heard, around zero, and they're very low. It's just the way things turned out. Now it's easy, or it looks like it's cheap to raise the loans, but one day it's gonna have to come back, so it doesn't, I'm saying it's gonna come after that on the charge, like those Tito loans from Tito's time came in when neither Tito nor the state was there anymore. The last thing I wanted to say about this is, therefore, since it is quite clear that every thing here will be presented as something that is great and extraordinary and that is a confirmation and proof of the good work of the government and the ruling coalition. And that's understandable, of course, when it comes to government deputies. I don't think it's necessary now to automatically criticize or spit, but when it comes to borrowing, it's always there, and I take it as an obligation of the opposition MP, including a citizen, simply to warn, to draw attention to how to take care. Of course some loans are favourable, of course some investments are necessary, but there are moments and there are simply some memories and warnings that should be very careful. Our common man, a citizen, knows that debt is always an evil friend, even when it seems attractive. After all, as I said before, let's remember how attractive those Swiss loans were ten years ago. I don't want to be with these bonds and these seemingly favourable loans that we're taking, that at some point, maybe we won't be sitting here, maybe some other government and the ruling majority, so it turns out that as a state, we've been through something similar or we've been going through a lot like these unfortunate citizens of ours who are in charge of the Swiss people, they'll pay multiple of that debt and the rest of us equally or more than they owed. So, at least we're not looking forward to it, we can explain, as the minister tried to say the other day why it was important, why it was necessary, but perhaps some redistributions within the budget, I mentioned the famous national stadium, and there are several such items, the stadium is just an example of something that separates the funds from hundreds of millions of euros, while we are in debt for the same hundreds of millions of euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70278	I thank my colleague Vukadinovic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70279	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we always like to play with some numbers and twist things differently than they really are. The recognition for the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia and the Governor is not the governor, she is the governor, you speak correctly, is one recognition that is important for the Republic of Serbia and testifys to some results. We can always say that others have won, and I don't want to go into it who gave it to them and why, but I have to point something out. The finance minister who sells social property cannot be praised, and he says he has a surplus in the budget. You can't brag about the governor who says we have a stable rate of dinar, and social property is being sold or foreign exchange reserves are being sold. That's not working. What do we have now? Tell me what's been sold out of social property in the last few years. It's nothing. Moving on, are the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia increasing? They're increasing. Is it a stable dinar course, predictable? Yes, it is. These are the meanings of results based on real economic goals, which the government put before it as early as 2014. Now, that famous story about how the capital was cheap, it started, and I already told you that last time, in the last discussion, it started in 2008, when the global economic crisis broke out. At that time, US federal reserves, to make the US economy more competitive, reduced the interest rate reference rate, causing the market to fall, and then the European Central Bank, in order to respond to that, reduced its interest rate reference. We had one currency war that lasted until 2014, 2015. If this started in 2008, these conditions were the same as in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2016 and 2017 and today. Check the price of capital on the market. There are websites, you can check it out. Do an analysis, you'll see that the deviations are very small. What determines the interest paid by the Republic of Serbia on loans? The value of the state. So the degree of public debt and the degree of growth that has economics. Now, if a foreign investor or a domestic investor, however, is not afraid to invest money in our securities of value, whether they are in euros or in dinars, and they are not doing it because they love us, but because they want to make money, I ask the question – what are you worried about? I guess they take care of their money. I guess they estimated that the Republic of Serbia is a safe country for their investments. Some countries have very low interest rates, although they have greater public debt participation in their GDP. Let's say Germany. Their interest rate at which they broadcast state records of value moves minus 0.5% to plus 0.5%. This is because Germany has stable growth and everyone knows that it is certain in a certain way that this credit will return and certain investors to keep their money and not to be defused by some stock market speculations investing in these securities of value. Something similar is happening in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Our securities of value and value on interest are smaller than on Greek loans, rather than on Croatian loans and even on Slovenian loans, which is certainly recognition to the Republic of Serbia for the results it has on the economic plan. Do not minimise, relativize and banalise all the results the government has had since 2014 when we started a recovery programme for the Serbian economy. Now that we're talking about these loans. It understands that those countries that have built infrastructure, built a health care system do not invest much of the funds, except their resources from the budget they have. I have to ask a question, if it's already one of these loans to build a university children's clinic in Tirshaw. And what are we afraid of? He already has information that our economy is stable. Are we afraid that we have a university children's clinic in Tirshaw because something might happen in the world sometime while we're paying off that loan? I think that's crazy logic. I have to ask a question, and where are we going to treat the children, and what level of health care will our children have if we don't do something about it? One more thing. There was a story about us returning some of Tito's loans. Don't mix your grandmothers and frogs. The then-Yugoslavia raised loans to build factories that were so-called factories. Social property and that social property was supposed to pay back. Then came the group of thieves led by Boris Tadic, Dragan Sutanovac, Bojan Pajtic, Vojislav Kostunica, the unfortunate Bubal, Gilas, etc., Milosavljevic, who privatised, or sold out the social property for which loans were raised. Now we need to return the loans that were raised for non-existent business entities, because someone was making an anarchical privatisation, to come cheaply to the quality locations that this property had, or social property. This is about state projects. There's no substitute for thesis when it comes to property. One more thing. Someone's gonna say it, and our kids are gonna pay back those loans. I can't say you're wrong, but every mile of the highway. Will he last only as long as we're alive? Will this children's clinic, the University Clinic of Tirshaw, fall apart and collapse when we're gone? They'll use it, our children. They won't have to be in charge. They will be able to provide for their development, their economy, their family, their society, their children, and not leave the country because we are timid, unbuilt and incompetent. Trends are such that if we didn't speed up our economic development, that is, if we hadn't accelerated our economic development, we would have lost the population. We can't speed up economic development unless we have built a traffic infrastructure, we can't keep the population unless we have quality health care. Who will live in such a land? People left the houses where they were born because there was no way to their home. Now someone says, "What do we need roads for, do we have to borrow?" We have to. But the difference between us and those who robbed Serbia, they raised loans to artificially buy votes, citizens' trust. What was supposed to finance the economy and the real sector, we financed the loans, so we ruined the economy and the real sector. Comrade Vukadinović, do you know how many foreign reserves have been sold from 2008 to 2012? About five billion euros somewhere. You know what the course was in August of 2008, and what was the course in 2012? It was 78 dinars in 2008, and in 2012, it was 119.80. He sold five billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, which Soskic, which Jelasic, and did not keep the dinar course because Professor Danica Popovic taught them to print money. That's all a crazy man can do. That doesn't make any economic sense. When we started printing money, all investors from Serbia and domestic and foreign countries fled, closed factories, and inherited 400,000 unemployed. It was done by 2012, and don't try to justify it anymore. I don't expect you to praise the results of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I don't expect you to applaud, or anything else, but we expect at least not to invent, relativize and banalise the results. These are not just the results of the government of the Republic of Serbia, these are the results and citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70280	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Comrade Vukadinović, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70281	I don't have a problem, I don't have to applaud, but to commend, Mr. Arsic, when there's something to brag about. I've been quoting, but I can't say again in this short time, what I've been commending every time there's a chance to boast either in foreign political terms, or on a business plan. But fortunately, i.e. Unfortunately, there's not much. Just specifically to answer your specific question. This is, of course, a nice rhetoric, a nice speech, but there's not a lot of what defuses what I and my colleague used to say here. You asked, "What has been sold, tell me what has been sold?" There's a lot of things being said here and it's going over it, what's sold... (inaudible) of this authority. Yeah, those last ones sold a lot. I criticized it terribly, and I think it's bad, and that's why they're ex-girlfriends, and you criticized them, and that's why they're ex part of it. The "Yat" Mr. Arsic, made "Er Serbia", was sold. Okay, sure, but in fact it is and call it recapitalisation, call whatever you want, but it's sold. Smederevo was sold, Bor was sold, the airport was sold, and again you will say it is not, but it is something else. But the fact is that we gave up, for "Smedereva" I also supported it and praised it for the workers and people who live there, but let's say for "Bor" it was a big question whether it really had to be done that way. We're selling, and for the airport, I'm sure we didn't need that kind of arrangement. So, we sell those profitable companies or maybe they're not profitable right now, but they're in the perspective they're going to be or might be to put them in a capable management or to put them in because you're the government. So it's not true that it wasn't sold, at last, as far as the situation and the duties of these previous authorities are concerned. Well, they were in debt and they were selling, but it was also the world's biggest economic crisis. As far as Titus's loans are concerned, you know what? The country was built, I cited it as a bad example, but we have to admit that a lot has been built, the standard has been raised, and don't suggest, alluding that someone doesn't want to build a clinic, to treat people. Of course we want people to be treated is just a question of whether to be treated from credit or redistributed within these balance sheets and budgets that we have available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70282	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70283	"Er Serbia" has a strategic partner, and I can say that we inherited "Er Serbia" with seven 737 Boings of which three were in an annual state. The other four were the most common so-called. Frankenstein. They took the parts off of them and implanted them in these three. We managed to train one, the fourth one now belonging to a plane, which is the sister company "Er Serbia" and found a strategic partner who brought his planes and flew under the trademark "Er Serbia". Now, tell us, and what did we get in the budget, so we could spend as much as these others did? We're nothing. But tell me one more thing -- did anyone lose their job in Er Serbia, as they lost their jobs during the privatisation conducted by this gang of common thieves? It's nobody. Has the number of employees been reduced? It's not, it's increased. Now, that's a model of how SNS and Alexander Vukitch run one part of the economy. Let's move on. You said it was sold "Sartid" and that maybe it was a company that had a perspective in some future. But I do know that this company was run by the state, and you'll all agree that the state doesn't know how well to run such economic entities, has recorded some loss. That loss was one piece transferred to Hestil, one part we accepted, because we made it. Again the question - did one of the workers "Sartida" lose his job, as they lost the privatisation job conducted by Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic and others? It's nobody. Is there a reduced salary for the employees of Sartide, or Hestille? No, it's increased. And the Bug, of course. Is that a successful model of privatisation? Yes, it is. We want to talk about Bor, about RTB Bor? We can talk about that too. The current known sites are almost finished with their exploitation, it needs to be discovered new, it costs a lot, the state doesn't have that money. Furthermore, the state cannot operate on stock exchanges as private capital can. And one more question. Bor is privatized, some property, not mines, mines are state. Did any of the workers in Bor lose their jobs? Maybe one of the directors, but it's not for no reason. It's not. Is their salary cut? No, it's increased. Now, that's the difference between us and these thieves like Bojan Pajtic, Djilas, Šolak, Tadic and others. One more thing. It's been paid into the budget, only it's not paid in the same way as when they were selling out the social property that was the subject of the loan that we're now paying back. We can also talk about a concession at Nicole Tesla Airport. It's a concession. It's not sold. He's still state-of-the-art. The state gets revenues from him. But our goal is for a company that has a world reputation to operate at our airport, I repeat, our airport, to find airlines that will use our airport and that they, based on their experience and business partners that they have around the world, make the airport of Belgrade. Did we damage the state? Did we damage anything at the airport? Did we damage any employees? We didn't. Now, that's the difference between Alexander Vukic, who leads Serbia and thieves like Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic, Dragan Solak, Miroslav Miskovic and others. That's the difference and the difference can be seen. And that difference will have citizens voting in just a few months, two or three. And he's gonna say whether it was right for us to run the country or if it was better how this bunch of thieves ruined everything she got to fill their pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70284	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70285	You know, Mr. Arsic, you say they're thieves, and they say you're thieves, not you personally, but they list all the representatives of the government. After all, who's a thief needs to be determined by the authorities. This labeling, especially of those who aren't there, although some should be, but still, some who aren't there is a little bit degutative. They hold press conferences and make a statement, they say and they list, they have some arguments about who's a thief. That's why I prefer to talk specifically about facts. I mentioned "Sartid," that is, this sale to Hestille as a positive example, although there are, of course, various problems, but I cited it as a positive example. I've been apostropheist, the airport, and all this other stuff as troublesome stuff. By the way, when you ask what we're selling, well, you're selling the Commercial Bank, the biggest, strongest, last big state bank. That process is in the final phase. I hope it doesn't happen in the end, but you're selling. I can give you a list of what you've sold and sold. When a man listens to you, he'd think, even I get confused, like, these really beautiful ones, how can you attack such wonderful people and such wonderful government. As for Bora, maybe, you say, and you like to repeat it, and not just you, but one part of our economists, the state is a bad owner, etc. It depends on who's running it on behalf of the state. In that unfortunate Bor, the same man, if I'm not mistaken, correct me fellows, was the director, the chief and the first man, and during the SPS, in the '90s, and during DOS, DS, DSS, G-17, and eventually he even arrived at yours, it seems to me, the foreigners, meaning in the SNS. Maybe if you had changed, or if it had changed at some point, maybe it would have been some kind of furniture that would have managed better, rather than sold it, with all those perspectives that it has, theoretically and given the favourable trends now on the market, the prices of copper and so on. Just like the Americans were at the Ironworks when the steel was expensive and when it was convenient, when it paid off, to give it back to the state for a dollar. I mean, if he ever can, he better stay in state hands. And you, as someone with absolute authority or great authority, are there to find capable in your ranks or among your sympathies, experts, managers, to set them up, and then to manage them relatively well. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not against every sale and every borrowing. Of course they're supposed to be building clinics, but redistribute a little bit. Don't build a stadium, build a clinic of state money. And lastly, often here, colleagues say examples, statistics, and that's what ministers do, as in 2014 the share of public debt was 70%, that it was 24-25 billion, etc. And now he's down to 51, 52, the other day we heard that under 50 is that share of public debt. But whose government was it in 2014? You act like you came a few years ago, not to be in power since 2012, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70286	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70287	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, violation of dignity, Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when you hear the previous speaker, you think it's one honest, honest, innocent person. But when he starts listing your parties, you realize he's listed all the parties he supports. Wild predatory privatisation without him as an analyst couldn't have gone so easily if he hadn't given media legitimacy every night. So I can't understand the practice that occurred during Kostunica and his cats, that instead of politicians speaking on television, suddenly a bunch of analysts appeared at the head with a previous speaker, who were saying what politicians were thinking. Now, if I were to ask him if there was fog on the road between Novi Sad and Belgrade, you would say – this Marijan Risticevic is banging something. But in order for me to explain it to you, not only was it about the man who tried to steal Vlach's national identity, which he himself admitted wasn't Vlah, but, behold, Vlah was in elections, that means, people, that it was a fraud and theft of the identity of a national group living in Serbia. Number two, when I talk about traveling, he commits a crime of fraud every day. We get travel expenses by making a statement that we've traveled, say, from Novi Karlovac to Belgrade and on that basis I get, at the end of the month, whether or not, to the secretary, travel expenses. Then, if someone does not travel and attach a car, registration number, etc., and gets the travel expenses of 5,500 dinars, they appear here for 10-20 minutes, accusing this government of not solving the problems that Kostunica and Tadic, which he supported due to the amount of the two million and 400 thousand dinars, so they come and accuse us and then goes and 50 euros for travel expenses for a false journey that did not exist. Every day he travels from Mother Jerosima to the National Assembly, not from Novi Sad to Belgrade. When I ask him, was it fog, ice, of course he doesn't know. Question if he has a driver's license, question if he has a car. A lot of questions are opening up. But in essence, it's a fraud, and a fraud is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70288	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. A colleague, Vukadinović, first of all, has a colleague... You can't get a replica on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I'm sorry, I didn't realize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70289	You see, Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, dear viewers, that's exactly what I was talking about this morning and several times here in this assembly. Most people who actually violate the dignity of the National Assembly and who even some of the circumstances of normal dialogue, which is like normal political controversy and debate in the National Assembly, cannot endure, if there are some three words or sentences at the expense of the government, and then jump with disqualifications, in fact when you start to deny that they are either accurate, but irrelevant, irrelevant, or defamation and fiction, so you are automatically in a subordinate position. They can so infinitely pour and thus poison, not only dignity, but I would say, and the meaning of existence and work in this National Assembly and which are largely the cause of such discussion. Such individuals are the reason why a good part of the MPs boycotts the work of this National Assembly. So now I'm explaining what's in the Rules of Procedure, what I am, where I live, what I do, and whether I've changed my nationality. Of course I haven't changed, but 100 times, 1,000 times the repeated lie becomes true. Of course, a majority member can be on the minority list, as a minority member can be on the majority list. It's an elemental thing. But it is a sin that now a potentially fruitful debate, a potentially useful debate between me and my colleagues, Arsic, we are now actually bringing to this reality, the drinking, the street level, which is what a respected colleague does. Article 107(2) Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70290	A colleague of Vukadinović's... You'll get, of course, a colleague, just a moment, just a few sentences, if you'll excuse me. A colleague, Vukadinovic, called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, spoke among other things about a subordinate position. You were also talking about meaning. You see, the point of hurting the Rules of Procedure, you certainly know, is that when you point to an injury, you call on a member. You didn't call for a member. No, you're not. Look. No, look at the stenogram. You didn't, and I didn't want to interrupt you, so you can't say that you're in some subordinate position, but I've allowed you to explain, and you used the breach of the Rules of Procedure more as a right to replication, to replicate what your colleague Risticevic was talking about, which I've allowed you to do again. Don't just, please, talk about someone having a subordinate position and giving more rights to the MPs of the opposition than to the MPs, when you see that we are having an equal debate. Therefore, an entirely identical right, the same rights shall be given to MPs of office, or MPs of the government and MPs of the opposition. I think we have one balance throughout the debate in respect of our rights. My colleague Rističević, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Comrade Vukadinovic, do you want the National Assembly to declare the orderly violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70291	I don't want to, Mr. Chairman, because otherwise I think these injuries are being misused here by the Rules of Procedure and I very rarely and reluctantly do so, and I won't do it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70292	Thank you. My colleague Rističević, here you go. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70293	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 107, I advertised. After me, right after I do, another colleague can't advertise the same member. That's right, Mr. Secretary, because that article has already been pointed out. Also, it's been said that what I'm saying is not normal. Are we going to the National Assembly to ban the truth? I'm ready to resign. Here, if I was telling a lie, I'm resigning. If it's not normal to tell the truth, then say it like that, but if I'm telling the truth, I'm offering to resign. So, three key things – was Mr. Vukadinovic the second on the list of Vlaška national minorities? It is not intended for both the minority and the majority, but rather for the positive discrimination of minority peoples, minority nationalities to have a natural threshold. If you're a member of the majority, and you want to use minority rights, you're a fraud. Yes or no? Number two -- is the magazine, or the association of citizens that is not even in the seat that he listed, therefore, not in Decanska No. 8, I checked it, or do I not know which number, did the Lutrija survey, or did he get two million and 400 thousand during Tadic's time to question public opinion at a time when "Lutria" was minus? The third thing he claims to be defamation – is it true that he charges travel expenses from Novi Sad to Belgrade every day and that's about 5,500 dinars? With that in mind, I'm offering to check my trip, by offering the appropriate service to check my phone's base stations and determine if I'm traveling from New Karlovac to Belgrade. The same thing as checking for Mr. Vukadinovic, nothing's scary, nothing hurts. To determine whether I'm lying when I say -- he's not traveling from Novi Sad to Belgrade every day, and he's charged travel expenses for over a million and 200,000, lately I'm not an account, a million and 269 thousand, which is over 10,000 euros, for what you can buy a car. If I lied about this, I quit. Otherwise, I object to someone who speaks the truth being called abnormal. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70294	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70295	Article 27, Mr. Chairman. And last time, at the end of the presentation, I called for a member, just not at the beginning. Here, I just said it at the beginning. But here, that's what I'm talking about, you're supposed to be running this session, but that doesn't just mean you're mechanically giving a word, but also to see what it's about. There's a potentially interesting and useful debate here, interrupted, by one street, slanderous act of an MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70296	Comrade Vukadinovic, you are now trying to discredit the way I conduct the session, by saying that I am mechanically running the session, and I am very closely listening and closely following you. I'll give you your time back. Wait a minute, you didn't say and you didn't call any members of the Rules of Procedure, not a single member of the Rules of Procedure, and did you say in your beard if you said off the microphone, that's something else. But you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure you're calling, and I'm very closely listening and following, and I've allowed you, just so you don't do what you normally do when it comes to any chairman, which is to respect that you've been denied any rights. You have no right to be denied, here you are, reapply and you will be given the opportunity to speak after the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70297	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if it's the microphone, or if you haven't heard it, but in the end, I am so that my colleague Risticevic could mention it, if I didn't mention it. I mentioned Article 107(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70298	He said he was assuming, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70299	Here is something else, if there really wanted to be a debate, then it would appear in the controversy or in the time it has a parliamentary group and then it would be discussed including these things, but it was deliberately used and misused by the Rules of Procedure, so that an MP who said something would not want to be heard would disqualify himself. And now I begin to explain and answer in the same way, to draw, and facts, criminal charges, investigations against the honourable gentleman and fellow MPs, to mention some firms, some rabbits, some mice or rats, who ate the stock reserves, we would be at the same level. Someone would say, look, they're insecure or they'd say, it's probably true to each other. So I don't want to get down to that level. Secondly, I am saving Mr. Chairman, the National Assembly, because I had the right to have the Assembly pay my apartment, as some MPs during their work in Belgrade. So, I'm saving, I'm being called, I'm being criticized and slandered, for something, which is actually some kind of my savings, because I don't want to charge the costs when the Assembly doesn't work, for some months, when there's one or no session, no reunion or one. So some colleagues use it, they don't do anything illegal, and I'm not going to say that I'm doing it illegally, but I didn't want to call it off at the beginning. I have defined myself, in some ways I have limited myself in a restrictive way, unlike some MPs from the government and from the opposition, not asking for everything, some are paid for and a separate life and what I know, certainly accommodation and apartment. I don't get paid, because I used to stay in Belgrade a lot, my son studies there, and I don't want to go down to that drinking level. But I say, a hundred times a lie is repeated and slander becomes true. So, instead of being commended, I don't need anyone to praise me, but anyway, for something that's kind of correct, I'd say making a wish, not to increase the costs of the National Assembly, I'm being called, criticised, with more reporting home addresses, which is also potential, putting in danger, not just me, someone and some other person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70300	Comrade Vukadinović, a lie could become true if you listen to only one side, and you here have the opportunity to always answer and give counterargumentation from what he was talking about, specifically fellow Risticevic, which you, of course, are allowed and enabled and I do not see anyone wanting to prevent such a kind of debate and such a kind of debate. So, counterpart Risticevic pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure which his legitimate right, stated certain findings and facts and I cannot claim to be correct or not. He said he'd deliver the data. On the other hand, you're allowed to answer and say that's not true. You can also provide a certain argument. I don't see any other way to talk, if not like this. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70301	As I said, since I consider it an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, everything a colleague does, if he wanted to discuss it, I would go into controversy, not like this through the Rules of Procedure. I don't want the National Assembly to declare that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70302	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Comrade Rističević, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is Article 109. If someone uses offensive expressions. I didn't use any offensive expressions. And here's my way of talking to the street. So if someone tells someone to speak street language, they certainly fall for insults. But I didn't get an answer to those basic questions and asked the Secretariat to check, whether I'm speaking correctly or not, and to deliver that information to me and Mr. Vukadinovic. How many times did Mr Vukadinovic take travel expenses from Belgrade to Novi Sad, or 5,480 dinars a day, and not travel from Belgrade to Novi Sad? I'm offering my phone number to check if I'm traveling. Is he ready to offer to check his number, to be seen exactly by base stations, did at least five times in four years from Novi Sad travel to Belgrade and daily take 50 euros for it? Furthermore, I did not get an answer to the questions I tried to ask through a violation of dignity. Is it true what I said he got 2,400,000 from the lottery? Is it true he was second on the Vlach National Minority List? Is this true about travel expenses? I can ask further questions in which he has deceived the state in a certain way, and I ask you to know, every day when you take 5,500 dinars from the state, and you don't travel, so you've attached the registration number, you've attached your signature that you were traveling on that day, you committed a crime of fraud, and I ask clearly – yes or no? As far as the reserve is concerned, I've sown corn for him, there's nothing to worry about. But I'm also offering to resign, if it's true that I have those forms he mentioned. And by the time he mentioned the rabbits, I'd never answer again. Bear hunter doesn't spend ammunition on rabbits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70304	Thank you, colleague Rističević. As far as I'm concerned, you're not asking the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. The information you were talking about, I was just talking to the secretary general, all the data is public and transparent. The Secretary-General's request is only to make an official letter and you will receive all relevant information. Thank you. My colleague Filipović, do you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70305	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been a lot of noise in the last hour, and they're certainly all saying we have to check it out. We need to know about the interests of citizens who and how they do business and work, who and how they experience the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who and how they view the money of citizens. This is all important in the spirit of this debate that we have since this morning and in the debates of the MPs, about what has been achieved by the Serbian Progressive Party, what has been achieved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to our finances, economics and economy, and that is precisely the key differences between those who are so fiercely critical of us daily, who so insolently and arrogantly present lies about the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his family, about the Police Minister, Nebojsa Stefanovic and his family, first of all, about his father, about other ministers, about those who do all that the Serbian Progressive Party, so unfeelingly and disgustingly discredit in this National Assembly. About those who are able to say that we don't need roads in Serbia today, of course they don't need roads, highways, they have their own paths of crime and drugs, what highways they want when they go to the foresters, they go through some shortcuts, they go through some roadways, they don't need normal roads, but the natives are needed. This government of the Republic of Serbia should continue to build roads and highways. He should not listen to what Dragan Gilas is saying, because these are not well-intentioned advice, which is behind it only the idea of repossessing, kidnapping citizens from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All the allegations that are heard here about anyone must be checked, because soon the elections will come, at the end of April the citizens will go to the polls and evaluate the work of all of us, and they will evaluate what anyone has said in the National Assembly, will evaluate our actions and what we have left behind in the previous four years. That is why it would not be good for the citizens of Serbia to be deceived because of some of the small interests of individuals, and it is therefore important to know where and where any of us live, what assets are available, how this property has been acquired and how it is treated and how these diaries are raised or not raised, we need to know that because of the citizens of Serbia, because it is the money of citizens. We owe them these answers, the citizens ask us to do so every day. When they hear we're out here, they're asking to check it out. Don't let it all end just on what's been said in the National Assembly, we want it checked out, we want those who took the money from Serbian citizens and to answer for it. That's what we're asking the authorities for. I will personally join my colleague Marijan Rističević's initiative and check it out and who took money from the lottery, which is why, as this money was spent, millions of dinars and millions of euros went to what, and where all that money ended and what was the purpose of that money being pumped out of the budget just to satisfy one's personal interests. We are not here to satisfy ourselves and our personal interests, our families, but to satisfy the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70306	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70307	So, it looks like someone gets really nervous when they say... A hundred times we hear here -- thieves these, thieves they, so now not to name who's always there and on which list is listed, I just said, I didn't even mention me, on the other hand, and they say you're a thief. Then I got the attitude of assault and calling, not in the field, but in the injury of the Rules of Procedure. That's what citizens need to know. There's no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I now had to, in fact, abuse the Rules of Procedure, one, two, indirectly, admit, or at least creatively interpret it so that I could at least answer something, which is stupid and lame, I shouldn't even have done it, as I'm mostly not responding, but I'm saying, a hundred times the same phrases, the same nonsense, I can't stop in two minutes. In the end, the citizens will believe or not. I'd like these electoral laws to change fundamentally, if not now, for some other election, so it's a majority system, so let's see, in fact, let all these heroes and those great geniuses who hide behind their leader's backs, show up under the name and last name on the election list, and I'll come to their Banovci, Karlovci or Belgrade, and we'll apply one to one, so we'll see who the citizens really believe. But it's ugly when you do something that's... In fact, you refrain, you don't even use what's right for you under the Rules of Procedure and the legal right to be called for, of course it hurts. But we don't have the right to personal emotions, and that's why I sit and suffer often unfair references and accusations. But this is important. If really that previous government was so thieving, so bad and terrible, and this one so good, so capable and fair, that's the point of a dear colleague, so how come citizens don't live much better? That's the point. So how come this improvement is not much more tangible, except in the stories of the MPs and in the praises and praises of the ministers that we will hear here tonight, when they come to the National Assembly and every day in the media? So if they were so bad, incompetent and thieves, and these now, I'm not saying now, you're so good, honest and capable, how come there's no greater improvement? I don't deny it. There are some results. I'm saying, I'm criticizing my colleagues, although they're probably looking at each other right now and they're laughing and liquefying and saying, if that's what you need, and they're texting me on social networks, that's what you should do when you're messing with them and coming here. But I think it should be, that some citizens who can't track social networks or don't want to hear the other side, of course it's not even when I'm one, could have been at least twenty of us on this side, so it would have worked a little differently. I'm not saying that we all think the same thing, you don't all think the same thing, but it would be a little more even. This is a bit of a painful impression, but it shows how much the ruling majority has no hearing not for democracy, but also for their own interest and not to say for the country's interests, the country's image, when it's ready to step on one opinion or two opinions, a couple of opinions that are not heard to them. Well, be patient, gentlemen, be patient. Don't go home now. If someone did something wrong, they'll examine the organs, punish them, investigate them, we're all equal here, we should be even in front of the law. But it is quite clear that there are MPs who are most called to dignity, who serve only to disavow, blaspheme, slander someone who seems dangerous to them on the other hand. That's quite clear. When counterpart Zoran Zivkovic took his word for it, who answered and talked about his fellow farmer? When Prof. Ševarlic takes the word that he says something serious about agriculture, right or wrong, but I believe exactly, because a man is competent, immediately starts to accuse him as a man thief, as a criminal, a profiter, etc. So there are people who have a job, it's called "scroker" in football, but this isn't "square play," this is much worse than that. This is a direct collapse and defeat of reputation and thus no great reputation of the people's parliament and even disabling and honest work and the efforts of MPs and the ruling majority, some who are seriously and argued about the problem, discuss, exchange arguments and facts. So, in this particular case, I said it was a bad friend, that it should be tried as little as possible, if it can be from the budget's income, that some of it is being serviced, not that in two days we owe 250 million on the basis of the bonds issued, or nearly 450 euros on the basis of these loan laws that we are now going to do here in the Assembly, or you here to adopt as much as tomorrow. That's what the point is. Everything else is dust and rhetorical smoke that serves only to disabling political opponents and to make them withdraw, to go away, to disgust and disgust and MPs of opposition, to leave the hall, like the people who are watching her and to say -- well, it's a horror, it's a reality, it's one fair, I'm not going to watch it. So, you're kind of cutting the branch where you're sitting by allowing these discussions and this kind of collapse of the level of parliament, but we're not going to agree on the government balance, we probably won't, but I've heard some things from my colleague Arsic, I've answered some things, I want to and I can discuss with such MPs, and not only with him, but not in this way, which I would say, deliberately and tendably, wants to drive all the opposition MPs out of parliament and then say, you see, they're irresponsible, they don't care about the interests of the citizens, and in fact everything seems to go away from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70308	Comrade Vukadinović, you have said a lot, and I am very closely following and if you do not want to believe it, and how closely I follow, most of the things concerning the National Assembly I have recorded, so it is my obligation to answer you. So, creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I allowed my colleague Rističević, but there were absolutely no double arches and double standards either. Also, you know that the breach of the Rules of Procedure can take up to two minutes, I have made it possible for colleagues Rističic and you to complete the thought you started and I have not interrupted you. Whether the results are visible or not, they are already political qualifications, then you would be leading from this place a political dialogue with you, and I have no intention of doing so, because I am holding a session of the National Assembly, but certainly when we come down to the parliamentary benches, then we can talk about it, but you will agree with me that it is always the most measured court of citizens. Here, the election is close, so we'll see how visible the results are or not. The debate that you and my colleague Risticevic have had, I think, when it comes to every debate, I think it is true that the interest of all of us and the truth will be obtained on the basis of the documentation that we will receive specifically from the Secretary-General, or from the Secretariat of the National Assembly. Whether someone through a democratic debate and a democratic confrontation of opinion wants to undermine the authority and dignity of the National Assembly, I would disagree with you there. It is simply that I believe that democratic debate and democratic dialogue of opinion are something that is needed by Parliament, and it is absolutely logical that we have different opinions and different views. We can't always agree on everything, because if we agreed on everything, then we wouldn't, if everyone thought the same thing, they wouldn't think enough, and of course that's not the point. Whether we're someone and whether we want someone, as you said, and I don't think it's a good qualification to drive them out of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, no one intended to do that. I think the reason is something different, which is that the inability of those who left the National Assembly, that their inability to force is just to show through a reasoned and democratic debate and the confrontation of opinions. Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. This was my obligation, given that you pointed out some segments that specifically concern the work of the National Assembly, and I, as the chairman, were in charge of protecting the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of each MP, were positions, or authorities, of any opposition. My colleague Filipović, you want to follow the amendment? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70309	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, so we have either a majority or a proportional electoral system. In this case, when voting for the name and last name, it is a majority electoral system and I think some of the colleagues who talk about running by name and last name would not see this parking lot or park next to the Assembly if they would run with their name and last name, let alone see the bench of the MP and also on the salty salary. So, not about the majority electoral system, not about the name and last name, because then we wouldn't go as a Serb, i.e. The false Vlach on some Vlach lists, so we would introduce ourselves to the citizens as I don't know what to do just to get to that parliamentary restaurant or to the salary of 117,000 dinars or that daily, as counterpart Risticevic said, from Novi Sad to Belgrade, and we live one street below. Then we say - that's offensive. It is offensive, it is offensive to the citizens who voted for it. These people certainly did not vote, in Serbia live honest, normal people, they did not go to the elections to vote for thieves and for stealing, for us to take diaries from Novi Sad to Belgrade, and live in Mother Jevrosima. That's not what people voted for. People asked us to vote for responsible policy, to have ideas, and I agree. Kola Arsic has brought forth many things, numerous facts, numerous data, very specific things, but we cannot allow this to undermine the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in such a way as to show that I am traveling from Novi Sad to Belgrade and I live in Mothers of Jevrosima. It's a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly. This forces not MPs from the assembly, making Serbian citizens not to watch or transfer the National Assembly. It disgusts people with politics when they see it. They get sick when they see it in a direct transmission of the kind of person who does it, they get sick and then they say all politicians are the same, you all travel from there, you take from there. No, I don't. We're not taking anything. We don't take, we don't lie to Serbian citizens. We didn't take two million from the lottery. People get sick of it. That's what makes people out of politics. When they take money from Serbian citizens to feed themselves. Take the money and put that money in the roads, in the factories, in the bridges, in what comes back to the citizens, in what people will be better able to live. Don't talk about honesty like that. They are not the ones across the road who have not been in the congregation for more than a year because they cannot present their idea, they cannot make their proposals, but they do not have them. Why don't they bring them out at their conferences now, but they bring out a lot of lies, fiction? The mud of Minister Stefanovic, President Alexander Vukic, does not stop every day. They're getting paid to tweet. They did not receive the salary by coming to the congregation, discussing the bill’s proposals. We don't have to agree on anything. You can be against everything that the government suggests, but come to a fellow MP's bench, put in a card, discuss, discuss, submit an amendment, so let it be pointless what you suggested, but as such, you've been legitimate and you've said to the citizens - I've had a proposal; so it's pointless, okay, I'm like that, you're a nonsensical MP, it's pointless suggestion, but you've come to your workplace. This is so much more insolent that you've been getting paid for over a year, you're not coming to work. Well, can any citizen in Serbia who works in the private or state sector, the public sector, not come to work for more than five days and stay in his job? It's nowhere to be found. Nowhere in the world is there that someone can get paid without being in a permanent working relationship, without receiving the salary regularly and not coming to work. It doesn't exist, and to criticise it, everything as bad to me is bad, I'm sick, I'm not going to the election. Oh, you don't have to go to the election, buddy. They say in some of their tweets, unfortunately, I have to look back and look at it in this presentation – the people will not go to elections unless Dragan Gilas is elected. Well, what is he? In the name of what people does this satellite of his speak here from the lottery and Gilas, Bosko and the others? Well, everyone together to run, they can't raise 5%. They must feel like they're coming down to 3%, trying to get one of them across. So now they're not even good at 3%. The twilight of democracy. Oh, no, what was the flower of democracy? When you banned videos in political campaigns, when you were lurking cows in campaigns, when Tadic was messing with the people by going to flooded areas, that chickens got sick, so it was a program and a political idea. Or the billion and 200 million debts that Gilas left for the city of Belgrade. Was that the idea? Were two million from the lottery that idea? Was the birth of Belgrade through Balsha's father the same idea, the business space of theirs, was Balsha's building on Dorcolo the same idea political? Are the vineyards of Zoran Zivkovic that idea? Is Marinika, on her knees, an idea? Is the brother-in-law who was selling drugs, Dragan Gilas, a political idea? Or are political ideas when you cut public debt below 50%, when you raise your salary from 300 euros to 520 euros, when you hire 300 thousand people, when you open over 500 factories, when you only do over 120, 130 kilometers of roads in the last year alone, when you do over 350 kilometers of highways? It's ideas. When you build bridges to bring people together, when you help your people in Republika Srpska, when you help people in Kosovo survive. It's ideas. When you have bigger foreign reserves, when you have bigger reserves in gold, it's political ideas. That's what Serbian citizens are interested in, that's what they live on. They don't live on whether or not someone here is going to complain that he's really sick because the government has given all the facts about him what he was doing while he was in power. Well, tell me, look at you in the mirror, I took $2 million, I spent it on it, too. I've been doing research. What was all this research? In 2012, the survey was conducted by the expert on public opinion research, by giving Tadic 15% a week before the second round, 15% of the advantage. We saw how it went. He did a hell of a search for two million. Don't let us have such discussions at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not like that. We can disagree sometimes, with certain colleagues, we have a stricter discussion and with a colleague who spoke and on committees of the assembly, it's all okay, but there's no reason for us to be ashamed of doing it with good intentions. But again, I'm undermining, I don't see any good intentions in taking money from Serbian citizens, and you don't know what it's spent on or raising over 5,000 dinars daily, and you live around the corner. So, what are you, Superman, so you needed super energy to fly from Novi Sad to Belgrade? I didn't know we had Bananas and Supermans in the Assembly. I guess the MPs here are just being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70310	Thank you. According to the amendment, Ljiljana Malusic has a colleague. Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70311	Thank you, Chairman. It's sad when someone says that the building of this tall home is real and that we're participants in reality. You know, it's a matter of perception. I have the honour of being elected on the list of my political options and we are all here to represent our political goals, our convictions, to argue. It's a shame that there really aren't any of these people who get paid and take journals. And if someone told me I was a thief, believe me, I would immediately file a criminal report. Against all the people we're talking about having some crime, we've filed criminal charges and people will answer. It's no longer up to us, but to the judiciary, to the prosecution. If someone told me I was a thief, I'd file a criminal report right now. That's what I say twice because I don't have butter on my head, because I'm a normal, honorable woman who gives, doesn't take from this country. The state gave us everything. What prompted me to report on this amendment is someone saying there's no work results. Well, that's really not true. Let's just remember in 2008, that is, from 2000 to 2008, a closed, devastated, devastated country, sold 500, 600 companies, and how? Sell, strip, and return those naked companies to us again. You're a disgrace. In 2008, they took out a loan, and they were in charge, and then the government, to pay off their pensions, and they won. And that was the end. At 8% interest. They're talking about us taking credit today. Well, of course we're taking loans. This country has to move forward, develop, but we're investing in projects. In 2008, 400,000 people were fired. It's about a million with your families. What did these people live on? It was for a little social revolution. If we hadn't come to power in 2012, what would have happened? Three more months we'd live and then what, a flat-rate, bankrupt state. And everybody knows that. Since 2012, in 2014 we have had heavy reforms, but they have produced fruit. No one can say we didn't do 350 kilometers of highways. We did, and you can see that. We're making fast tracks. We're working, we've built miles of tracks. We're buying rolling stock. We work, we renovate hospitals, we renovate schools, we build new hospitals, we build new schools. You can't say we don't have work results. You can say anything, but you don't. Unemployment was 26%, 27% in 2008. It's 9.5% today. We hired 250,000 people, opened over 300 factories. So, the results of the work are there, and it's not like the Krauts are going on, but it's visible. After all, ask people. We'll have two, three months of elections, so the citizens will say what they think about how this government works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70312	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70313	Thank you. Let's remind ourselves, the reason for this debate and this little stunt of mys was my observation and agreement with the amendment and with the amendment's exposure that it should be cautious when borrowing and reminding me that we, the previous two days after the issue of bonds as a state, have been charged by about 250m euros on the basis of the issue of bonds, and that these proposed laws, or loans, owe ourselves an additional around 450 or slightly less than 450m euros and the suggestion that this should be cautious, that at least part of it, if it can, be financed from the budget, from the good, allegedly, results that are being achieved, which does not mean, of course, that sometimes, should not be taken away from credit. Then I got what I got. So, it's quite clear, what my colleague ended up with, well simply, can't man or all the facts that he's denying, and if he's denying them, it doesn't matter, it's down, water's spilled, mud's thrown, but it's important to forget this. It's important to push this into another plan. Do we owe that much? Did we issue the bond that much? And will when these laws are passed, that is, this agenda, be another 450 or 430m euros in increased debt? Defend it, colleague, as counterpart Arsic tried to defend it. Justifie,explain. And that's okay. But the important thing is to cover it up, not to be heard in public, but to talk about, I don't know, research or travel costs. (Srbislav Filipovic: What, when did you take the money? ) My colleague Filipović, I see, is nervous and impatient. You confused me, my colleague Filipovic, but well, that's not easy for you. One who said Boris Tadic has 15%, the agency that has 15% advantage over Tomislav Nikolic was not me, but was another agency that now works for the government and now publishes these results on the fantastic advantages and ratings of the ruling party. So, no, it wasn't me and it wasn't the new Serbian political thought. Of course, who works, he's wrong. It may be wrong, things change, new ones appear, but that time, the story of 15% of Tadic's advantage over Nikolic was not me. But it doesn't matter to you. There is no one to listen to you and to applaud you, as it does not matter to those who lined you up, or who you lined up, unfortunate colleagues, to stand behind you and to talk about the attack on your car, without explanation, without justification. It was a scandal. You lined up half of the MPs' club because of that alleged attack. Look, what if it's not a violation of dignity, not a Parliament, it's a crime. You were harassing the public, Mr Filipovic, accusing some political opponents of demoralizing your car, and everyone knows it's snowed on the windshield. It was snowing! Look, what happened to that investigation? How can you not be ashamed? That's why you're supposed to resign, because of that indignity from the Assembly, from the club and most of the party you belong to. Speaking of the party, you who talk about thieves, that thieving government, so you were in all those parties at the time while they were in power. Which parties you've changed, so your colleagues know that, too, at least the public in Belgrade, so you've been to all of those former regimes that you're criticising, literally everyone who's been in power. Now you're talking here, who doesn't know you, you'd think a man who was now born in 2012 with SNS coming to power. In every party, deny it. As far as this is concerned, it's degutant to me, given these important things, that I have to answer anything at all on this personal and ground level. Like I said, I shouldn't have even had this one, two moves of the Rules of Procedure that I did, and I shouldn't have done that either. People will believe, who will believe, who knows how things stand, or feel, he will also take his stand. I say, I saved funds for the National Assembly, I could ask for an apartment from the National Assembly, as many asked, and I didn't do it, and I'm still publicized and gossiped. The ruling coalition MP, the current ruling party, charged travel expenses, although there is, not an apartment, has two apartments in Belgrade. I don't have a place in Belgrade, I live like I do when I'm here. My son has an apartment and it's like a tenant lives, but it's stupid to talk about things like that, and I don't brag, and I don't complain, but everyone who knows me knows, knows that I've never stolen anything, and that story of evasion, it's my job to investigate, and we've done a lot of research, sometimes we guess sometimes we don't. You wouldn't have called me your leader once to comment on you, at some point, if he didn't trust me, if they weren't so bad or at least they were honest research. I say, it's wrong, something happens, there's a white one, although even white one, we've caught quite well. These attacks show that you are unable to endure, and that is the point, one, two or three members of parliament who criticise, arguingly criticise. I'm the one who brought up the debt data. I'm sure the minister has something to say and can explain, as well as counterpart Arsic, why it's good, why it's not scary, because some balances are favourable. I don't deny that some balances are favourable. I'm just paying attention to the fact that he's a long, evil friend. We also mentioned those debts of Joseph Broz's time, and we also mentioned these borrowings and this sale I mentioned, which I criticized during the former government. In every sense, I also criticise these privatisations that this government has taken. Listening to you, you'd think you didn't sell anything, but you're also selling "The Commercial Bank", you sold Bor, and "Sartid", you sold JAT, or "Er Serbia", or you said it wasn't sales, but capitalisation. It's not a neck. It's a neck. Most of your voters don't really support that policy, and then you need to brainwash it, and that's why you need to disabling all those who are having problems. And that's why these attacks on me. If you're judging those who aren't here, I'm here, so what's the difference? You're actually confirming, colleague, not everyone, I apologize, but Filipovic and Risticevic show they're right, and I'm a fool for sitting here and being exposed to attacks. They're right when they say -- we won't know anything, they're thieves, a gang, like you tell them they're gangs and thieves. In the end, sometimes I feel like a donkey being beaten by the shepherds, but I'm saying what I think and behind it. Whether it is supported by a minority and by a majority or by no one or as I believe, actually if I could explain, most of the citizens of this country, then we'll see it today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70314	Thank you. And also to inform you that your MP group is no longer available when it comes to this debate. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. My colleague Filipovic, did you want a replica or an amendment? (Serbian Filipovic: By Amendment. After the amendment? It is very important for me to know, because you have been contacted before by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. (Serbian Filipovic: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70315	Thank you, Chairman. A hundred times repeated that I'm a Vlach, I can't become a Vlach. The story of the car, probably the previous speaker threw himself on the car, so he represents himself as a pile of snow. You can't talk about what the investigation showed. The D.A.'s office is in charge of the investigation. How far did it go? We see how Zagorka Dolovac works, how much she examines the attacks on President Vukic, Minister Stefanovic and other senior officials, and that says enough about why the investigation is not finished as it should have ended. Of course, the inspirations of attacks and physical attacks and verbal attacks and threats are just the ones that robbed the citizens, just the ones that Dragan Gilas left as his friends here to talk all the worst about honest and honest people. Why are they attacking? They actually cross, dear colleagues. In the previous year, the ministry run by Nebojsa Stefanovic seized over 7.2 tonnes of narcotics and now, of course, that society is breaking down. When there's no drugs, they can't calm down, and then they run away from the congregation, they can't even work people, they can't even settle to come to work. I understand them completely, and I know why the marines look so familiar with chickens in the halls. It's these hallucinations that... When they lack narcotics, doctors say, I asked a psychiatrist and we have them in a parliamentary group, they say that's what happens. You have "The Upper Toponica" and they could go there, ask for professional help. We don't want to talk about it, we do politics anyway. There is also a colleague, Rancic, who can explain in more detail what happens to a man when after a long time because of the increasing amount of drugs available on the streets, they come to some very dangerous stage that makes them go raving at the National Assembly sessions and sees things. They see that someone is attacking them, they're seeing that someone doesn't love them. They have nothing to love in the National Assembly. They don't like the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they stole them and that's why they say – if no one votes for us. Only an abnormal man can vote for it. In Serbia, normal, decent people live mentally healthy people, and those who take money from Serbian citizens are neither mentally healthy nor normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70316	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Ana Čaapic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70317	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Dear Ministers of Finance with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have just had the opportunity to hear from Mr Arsic what is good what the National Bank has done for both the economy and the citizens of Serbia and when it comes to the stability of the dinars, and when it comes to foreign reserves, and when it comes to inflation rates, and about the reference interest rates, etc. I am absolutely sure that Mrs Tabakovic's character will be on one of the next bills to be printed for the next generations in gratitude for all the contributions to Serbian banking. Given that we are discussing today the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, what I want to say is that our country has achieved historical success in 2019. On November 5th, ten-year Eurobonds were issued on the international capital market at an interest rate of 1.25%. This low interest rate is the result of the great interest of foreign investment funds, insurance companies, foreign banks just for our state securities of value, for our government bonds, because we have achieved macroeconomic stability. Also, yesterday we achieved historic success, yesterday we broke the record and broadcast state-owned Eurobonds with a 20-year maturity and a 3.5% yield rate or a 3.5% interest rate totaling 150m euros. By the way, we've been broadcasting government bonds with maximum manuals for up to 15 years, and yesterday with a 20-year maturity. This is a huge success and all praise to the restoring ministry and, of course, the National Bank of Serbia. Otherwise, in the previous year's responsible policy, we managed to reduce the public debt and public debt that moved up to 76% of GDP a few years ago to 50.2% of GDP and all international credit rating agencies say our credit rating is increasing and Serbia's credit rating is positive. So we managed to reduce Serbia's credit risk. When it comes to borrowing the previous government, they were in debt at interest rates of 7% and 8% for financing, i.e. to pay pensions and salaries and to service public enterprises' debts. So they're in charge of spending, and when we're in charge, we're in charge of funding both investment and realisation of infrastructure projects. So it provides conditions from which we and the next generations will be able to repay those loans. Had the previous government not been in debt under such unfavourable conditions, we would now have a level of public debt of 35% of GDP. You're probably wondering how that's possible? Well, if we bear in mind that the value of the public debt at this point is 23 billion euros, and if we take into account that the current government has paid seven billion euros on the basis of the previous government's interest only, on the basis of the expensive loans and of Šoškovic and Dilas and Jelasic and Dinkic, then, on the basis of the interest alone, and when we subtract those seven billion euros from the 23 billion euros in public debt, we get a value of 16 billion euros in public debt. The 16 billion euros contained the debt of the previous government. So, the head no interest. When we split 16 billion euros with GDP, which was 46 billion euros in 2019, we get a percentage of the public debt of 35%. So, only without interest on those expensive loans that put us in charge of the previous government. So, in a far better situation, we would have been if the previous government hadn't been in charge of spending and had not been so irresponsiblely spending money. When we're in debt, we're in debt based on favourable loans, with interest rates of about 0.5%, and that's all transparent. The loan agreements can be seen on the National Assembly site, and you can see how much interest and deadline is due and all the terms of the loan, so we don't hide anything, but we have something to brag about. We, in fact, because of our country's favourable credit rating, have favourable conditions for international institutions, when it comes to lending for the realisation of our infrastructure projects. Now someone's wondering why we're in charge? Well, both families and every citizen in Serbia when they want to buy an apartment, a car, a cottage, an apartment, takes some credit and a business bank prescribes appropriate conditions, so that citizen pays for some percentage participation. When we transfer all this to the state, the state for the realisation of infrastructure projects, for the construction of road infrastructure, for the construction of health centres, etc. is in charge of this percentage participation that citizens pay. The state provides in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the rest for realisation, construction or so, is being paid out of loans, and I once again emphasise it under extremely favourable conditions. All that talk about, not to mention all those realized infrastructure projects that my colleagues and ministers spoke of in the previous days, is the result of a responsible policy of the current government. The Gilasovites should continue to argue about who will go to the elections, and who will not, let them continue to insult and threaten, let them continue to invent daily affairs, and the SNS will continue to fight and break all records, both in terms of macroeconomic stability and in terms of economic growth and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70318	I'd like to thank my colleague, Charapic. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70319	We've heard different theories here, from those that it's desirable for us to be in debt, that we're economically and financially capable, that it doesn't make up any problems, to those that we simply can't understand, that in fact the broadcasting of securities of value serves to build roads and build even infrastructure. To the soul, the author of this sentence isn't present right now, so then there's no point in mesmerizing. What's the logic of things and why we're raising these loans, when we're already broadcasting securities from value we're providing, as the minister announced, a billion on very favourable terms, in the future, that counts, what do we need these loans for? We don't need credits. We have the money we need, even more, if the money is done like this, then we're in great advantage, then we don't have to take foreign contractors for these infrastructure facilities, like highways. They can't blackmail us with a loan, with a credit line as explained. Because when foreigners give credit, they say you'll get credit, but the contractor has to be the one they recommend. That's what we heard, that's what they told us. So it's better to take, according to us, under the assumption that it's more logical to take this billion, so to invest that billion with your performers, and to hire the Roads of Užice, the Planum, all these travel operators, and then it's a multiple benefit. It's the logic of the economy. There's some confusion here. It is a matter of fact that it is a favourable market now, when it comes to securities of value, but don't forget, we've been telling you about the case of Greece, remember how much these Westerners supported Cyprus. Praise him, they said – this is new in the sky politically, this is a top economics expert. What was his mission? The task was to further assign Greece, not to say too long. And what did they suggest? They said – broadcast securities of value, under very favourable conditions, we will help you to make these securities of value real, because Greece is very favourable to such financial transactions. And what did Greece experience? She was broadcasting records of value. When did he get the money? It was made by the Central European Bank. Who's the most when it's shared? Germany at the most. What's left of Greece? There's an extra debt left. Don't look at things like that. The fact that it's seemingly convenient and what's good, it needs to be very careful. We don't mind building up, building up, raising infrastructure, but look at one thing, you don't essentially have a developed economy. What you're saying, gentlemen, is that you're explaining to us that GDP in Serbia is so much that Serbia can count, look at the structure of that GDP. Your colleague Jokic is not telling you by heart that this is defined as domestic GDP. Take a look at that structure as far as foreign companies are involved. You can't exactly rely on their longevity or longevity on this market. They pick up all their machines, put them in the truck and go, what do we do? Secondly, we need to develop our industry and our economy. There's been a lot of distractions about how the West praises us, how we're in the region leading. Yes, he's glad to have more stability said to everyone or psychologically when your dinar is stable. Somehow a man feels safer, but I just remind you, dear fellows most here, at least as far as I can remember Avramovic. Overnight it was declared, course, parity one mark, one dinar. In addition to hyperinflation, only overnight came Avramovic, came someone who would give birth, one brand, one dinar. We were saying then this is very bad for Serbia. It was SRJ back then. Then the trees and stones on us Serbian radicals, something similar to now, foretold to us that there was nothing from us, that we are the blackest ones to say that we do not know, that we do not understand ourselves in the economy. And how did that really affect the economy? It's a disaster. It was just to get over the price of services, to get those foreign exchanges out of straws through the price of the product. If it's an unrealistic course, a low income, you can't serve your obligations, you have to take what you left for no God, for black days. How are we doing here? It's a big part of the money coming from the diaspora. Don't forget, it's close to four billion that come together every year, but the question is, how long will it take? And that raises the question, as the offer-based and demand-based course is being achieved, foreign investors are interested, the question is how long it will last. It's all a big question. We must prepare because they are announcing us, not to speak out of bad intentions, but also to the minister, and to how they suggest that it can be a global economic crisis. We can't bring it out here now that it's been rewarded or declared the best... I'm just giving you an example of Argentina. Argentina was the most praised country in implementing reforms. Praise Argentina, Americans forerunners, the World Bank, said it was the right example. In order for the painting to be depicted, even that criminal Zoran Djindjic bought property there, so when he was killed, the woman was about to faint when she saw that he had a huge property there, but he bought it, he thought it was convenient there. What happened? Credits, loans, borrowing, and at some point, when the people rebelled, the citizens rebelled, couldn't live off that beauty that they imposed on them, there was a riot, there was a change of government, what did the World Bank and IMF say? It's an internal question of you in Argentina, a political question of who will be in your power, but the debt remains, a debt you must repay. Don't let us crash, don't bring out any data to satisfy our vanity or to present a much better situation than it is. It doesn't need to be diminished, but it doesn't take much to brag about. Yesterday we were listening to the praises here, 350km of roads. Well, wait, isn't it the fact that the previous one, as you say, was in charge of 1.5 billion euros to build Corridor 10 and 11 for a bypass around Belgrade. That's what the former government did. Is that what she realized? She didn't realize it, or she partially realized it, but she's in charge. Bonds were issued earlier on a foreign market, around four billion euros were broadcast, in a domestic 9.9 billion. Look at the data, that's the relevant data. Debt, Serbia's public debt in 2012 was 15 billion. In 2015, it is 24 billion. Take a look at the little debt structure, mostly in the broadcasting of securities of value. How can you get out of this? It can be used wisely and if its economy moves, if the economy moves, where more participation has brains, not work, physical work. By imposing thinking, we're going to take modern technology from foreigners, it's not in that much scope, gentlemen, in Serbia's market. It is not the foreigners who will install modern technology here to teach Serbian engineers or experts. No, they care about Serbian engineers and experts going abroad. That's the reality, that's the reality we live in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70320	Thank you, colleague Mircic. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70321	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected fellow MPs, Finance Minister Mr. Sinisha Mali, has already mentioned in the opening statement that we have been seeking for years to join the list of J.P. Morgan bond indexes. We are now officially close to that because the US Investment Bank and the financial institution J.P. Morgan, as she announced, are very positive prospects for including the dinar bonds of the Republic of Serbia on this list. A positive decision is expected by June this year. This is how Serbia enters a line of globally attractive investment destinations. One of the leading financial institutions, J.P. Morgan, in a report on expected macroeconomic and financial developments in developing countries for 2020, estimated that the Serbian dinar is one of the two currencies that are fully realistic. 150 million of bonds have been issued for 20 years, denominated in euro for the first time. This means only one thing, trust has been restored to our country, because if someone is willing to invest their money for 20 years, it means that he is sure that Serbia will not only be a safe and stable country, but will make constant progress. In translation, this means that the base of investors investing in our country will be further expanded, and Serbia will be open to access to the world's largest group of prominent investors. Serbia's negotiations with the EU recently opened Chapter 4 -- the free movement of capital, a recognition that Serbia has conditions for future integration with European markets, and that Serbia's involvement in the Euroklir bank is being negotiated by the end of this year. All this says that others believe in Serbia's stability and progress on the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70322	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70323	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with a co-worker, Serbia returned to the international capital market last year where it had two very successful euro bond emissions at the lowest interest rates ever. The fact is that the efficient capital market and trust of the investment public are a prerequisite for Serbia's further development. Therefore, foreign investors and funds will be able to invest in domestic securities of value and in the Serbian capital market in a quick and efficient way. The government of Serbia will offer 150m worth of state records in the coming days, as already mentioned, with bonds being offered for the first time in 20 years. But this is a confirmation that Serbia's financial system is secure, stable and strong in order to further strengthen the trust of locals in domestic currency, to increase the participation of public and economic deposits, to reduce currency risks. At the end of 2019, Standard and Purs increased Serbia's credit rating with a positive outlook for further improvement. The reason for this is to lower the level of public debt and good fiscal results, i.e. surplus in the budget, as well as the level of foreign direct investment. In addition, this also means increasing credit ratings, which means lower interest rates and better financing conditions for all citizens and businesses. This encourages businesses to invest more, products, hire, which leads to economic growth. On the website of the Republic Statistics Institute, it was shown that real GDP growth in the third quarter of 2019 was 4.8% compared to the same period last year, i.e. 4% of GDP growth in the Republic of Serbia compared to 2018 in 2019. The euro-based dinar has an unchanged value at the monthly level, and compared to 2019, the year is 0.5% stronger. That is exactly what indicators and the results of the reforms that began before and continued this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70324	Thank you, colleague. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Zarko Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70325	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with an associate, during the 2000-2012 period, the policy that was led was not in the citizens' interest, but in the interest of the financial centres of power that the citizens were in the last place. This was recognized by our citizens, so in the last elections, key policy makers remained below the censorship in the past 2000-2012 period, and the policy led by Aleksandar Vucic and SNS received record support in the post-war history of the multi-party system in Serbia. So I think we should talk about what was done during the previous regime for one important reason, just so it never happens again. Our fellow citizens were directly robbed, but subtlely, by law, deliberate or ignorance, but always by the wrong policy of the previous regime and management of the NBS until 2012. By 2012, the high interest rate policy, which was as high as 11.75%, created a business environment ideal for speculation and the entry of hot money into the country, whose goal was not to place itself on the Serbian economy and citizens, but to profit at a high interest rate, which is the cost paid by citizens. It's a cost that, for other reasons, led the country to the brink of bankruptcy. The reasons for such a policy are often understandable, and our question of why people's money is being swept over to the world's financial centres has been answered by law. To our question whether it was moral, they replied that they had to. It wasn't moral, it wasn't moral. It was a national robbery. This is what it looked like for an ordinary citizen until 2012. If our fellow citizen finally managed to get a job before 2012 and went to the bank, the banks offered him interest up to 20%. The banks didn't care if they were going to place because the NBS was leading the policies of high interest rates, so the banks were getting high profits by doing nothing, just placing the money of the NBS. So our fellow citizen in order to raise a 100-euro loan to the capital would eventually pay 38 euros interest per month. Today it is possible to borrow this with a dinar loan and at an interest rate of 5%. When our fellow citizen goes to the bank today, he gets the same credit and pays 11 euros to the main 100 euros. Math is an exact science, and economic laws are inexorable. So again, the extra profits have been lost by banks, as the NBS has started working in the citizens' interest since 2012. It's a fact and it's numbers. It's money that stays for citizens who don't go to banks and that's inflation, which is 12.9% reduced to short-term 2.5% or long-term 3%. For whom is this not a historic success? It's a price stability and a course that allows the economy to plan, not to deal with course and speculation, but to produce a new value. It is a stability that enables citizens to be in debt at a low interest rate and that their war does not grow. It is ultimately a stable course that is in the interest of economy and citizens, not speculators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70326	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70327	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, you won't mind me, I didn't arrive at a principle debate to talk about some things, so for starters, I just want to look back on the loan agreement between Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which concerns agriculture, and it is certainly part of the work of the Ministry of Finance. Really, I haven't talked about agriculture here often. I'd like to pass on some thoughts and some investments from the local self-government I come from, but I'd also like to ask you some questions. We understand and it is good that 54 billion dinars are defined in the agriculture budget and I welcome the government's efforts to improve agriculture. As far as this agreement is concerned, it means more than 45m euros for competitive agriculture. It is important for Serbian farmers to talk about this issue and explain exactly what it is. I just want to say that this project involves increasing productivity and strengthening the market links between small and medium-sized agricultural producers, supporting new investments, but also better state communication with producers. The aim of this agreement is certainly to reform agriculture and agricultural policy in terms of investments in rural development, but also in terms of the use of public resources, for example. in the form of subsidies. You may not know, but the territory of the town of Nisha covers as many as 61 villages. The municipality from which I come, which is the township of Red Cross in Nis, covers 23 villages and a large number of farmland and is the largest city municipality in Nis. The heads of the municipality recognised the construction of atar roads, for which five million dinars were allocated as a priority for 2020 when creating a local budget. In this way, people could get to their parcels more easily and faster and keep the machinery from being damaged. I also want to tell you that the Red Cross municipality helps and encourages the association of farmers in the production of milk for the processing industry. In 2019, we had a situation that citizens' applications most often referred to the construction of plastics, the purchase of machinery and the purchase of different equipment. For the past year, as a result, as much as 50% more funds were allocated from the city budget compared to 2018. The allocations from the city's agriculture budget in 2020 will amount to 103 million dinars. About 60 million dinars the city will give for subsidies and what's good is that the city returns 80 and 90 percent of the equipment. In the end, I mentioned the separations for the Atarian roads, so I'd like to ask you if the city's municipality, if we have five city municipalities that do not have the status of the local self-government unit, could such a city municipality compete with the Ministry for any assistance, participation or subsidy so that it could be more easily relieved to enter the project of building atari roads? If this is not possible, is it possible for the city to compete for some funds at the Ministry, and to transfer them later as transfer funds or in some other way to city municipalities so that they can meet the plan they set in late 2019 for 2020? I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70328	Comrade Arsic, do you want the amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70329	Of course this amendment should not be accepted, because I really don't know where I propose certain parameters, numbers, it doesn't say anywhere, it doesn't exist, it never happened. Looks like he was dreaming about it somewhere. Or does he imagine that's how it's supposed to be? The Republic of Serbia has finally stable finances. Now, those who have not only helped us in this, but they have stabilised both the fiscal security and the desire of the Republic of Serbia at every turn, represented citizens as being robbed by the state, robbed by ministers, now they will tell us that we need to have the money we have saved and who we intend to spend exclusively in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I can only tell them they're too late with that story. The Republic of Serbia is a financially stable country. When someone mentions the issue of government bonds, don't take my words out of context. Our loans, to which we give consent, are exclusively software. Like, say, now the one we give to build a children's clinic in Tirshaw. So money can't be used anywhere but to build it. For other loans that we give guarantees can also not be used, not one single dinar, euro, cent or any other currency, except for what we give consent to. Now, there's this story about these Euro bonds, it's started in 2005/2006. years, but most of that money actually, not the biggest, but it's regulated by the Budget Law. What does this have to do with the construction of roads, schools and hospitals? It's regulated by the Budget Law. And now, the easiest thing to do is when an ordinary citizen doesn't know it, that you guys make it a story that suits you and completely confuse it. Yes, someone who wasn't responsible enough owed the state and state securities of value. We pay one part of these state records out of value from regular incomes, one part of these old government securities off the value by broadcasting new ones, with much less interest, to pay the old ones, with much more interest. Completely economically, legally and in any other way legitimately. Don't twist any more stories about the situation now being somewhat more favourable on the financial market in the world and Europe than it was eight or nine years ago. It's not. And whoever tells me that, I'm gonna tell him straight up that he's lying. No brakes. Because, you know, someone can not tell the truth and not know that it's not true, I understand that, but that someone knows that it's not true, and that's exactly what it's based on its political agenda and concept, it's nothing but a simple liar. So if, and here I am telling you, any citizen of the Republic of Serbia who then had a place of residence, whether in Austria, whether in Germany, whether in any euro-zone country, could have raised a more favourable loan than the Republic of Serbia by 2012. Well, then what's changed? Don't bring those things up again. Don't mix the loans we have on our market today, which are in the dinars, because they are cheaped for reasons of reducing the reference interest rate. A smaller reference rate was created because of the better results of the economy, to reduce the pressure on the country through the reference interest rate and that the money that banks have would go to the economy and the population. Anyone who wants to understand that, he understands. Who understands it and says it differently is just a liar. Nothing more. A self-proclaimed expert who will skillfully read data that has nothing to do with economic logic and science to try to confuse an ordinary citizen, to say -- here, Alexander Vukic doesn't know what he's doing. We know exactly what we're doing. You know what we're doing. And that's what bothers you the most, even though you all benefit from it. Not personally, but you benefit from the better roads you use, you benefit from better living conditions, you benefit from no inflation, you benefit from national currency not falling, you benefit from the benefits of your family living in a better and nicer state, but a small, petty interest, which is political, seems to be more important to some than their own family.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70330	My friend Mircic, just tell me the basis of the call? You want a replica or an amendment? (Milorad Mircic: It is simple, my amendment. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70331	No, I don't. I would like to inform my fellow MPs and the public that we Serbian radicals have taken a principled position -- with double personalities we will no longer dispute or seek replicas. Because the person here from the bench wants to potentiate parliamentary debate, democracy, and when he comes to the table of presidents, pressing the button, he takes away the basic means of the MP, the right to speak, it's just a question of when that button or that switch will be, God forbid, applied in some future for some other purpose. When he takes away the word, he's willing, for God's sake, and something much bigger and more important to take away. We know that. It's a man's psyche. It's a double personality. It's called professional, here, the professor's here, not right now, it's a kind of schizophrenia. And we will no longer have sex with the gentleman in question... (President: Don't, colleague, are difficult qualifications. )......................................................................................................... Because that doesn't make any sense anymore. For God forbid in the future, if he is able to deny our life, he will be ready. That's quite clear. As far as this amendment is concerned, we just want to sort of warn and show our view of this whole situation. It's not our vision based on political manipulation, it's our reality. You here listen all the time, like us, Serbian radicals, how much public debt is. Serbia's total debt is much bigger than this 23 billion. Our year-to-year imports are growing at the expense of exports. And now the forecast is that in 2019 it ended at five billion, and these 23, that's 28 total Serbia's debt. Don't ignore it. The public needs to know. We don't deal with manipulations, Serbian radicals, we just say what all people see from the profession, not by taking political views and pamphlets out. Besides, it won't take long. Here, a few months and it'll be a different composition.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70332	Thank you, colleague Mircic. I'm asking you one more time, there's no reason for hard qualifications, personal address... Milorad Mircic: It is a diagnosis. ) There is no reason for us to be diagnosed, there is no one to diagnose. I'm just asking you to deal with what the agenda points are, and these are the laws. Comrade Arsic, do you want a replica? Veroljub Arsic: After the amendment. ) According to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70333	Mr. Chairman, don't worry. This isn't the first self-called doctors to diagnose me. There were many in this same parliament, some of them returnees, so don't worry. There were also some lawns, that Obren Joksimovic, and then he gave me all kinds of insults here. It's one of the most common educations, a matter of education, culture, good behavior, something we bring from the family. Imagine what I'd look like if I said I was giving a minister, Zorani Mihajlović, a handle! What does that look like? Not to say what happened yesterday. I'm not a double personality, I'm such a rude, rude person, I can't say. But some don't have those brakes and that's the biggest problem. They don't even have brakes when it comes to this kind of shit about the economic situation. It's said - imports are growing compared to exports. Oh, look out for the rich. In 2012, imports were covered by 56 or 62%, today 76%, it seems to me, over 70% of imports covered by exports, and that shows exactly what manipulations are being used. (Sinisha Mali: There is a report waiting, it will be over 70%.) ) In nominal terms, it looks bigger. It's the same as when someone has a salary of 300 euros, has a loan that pays off, 100 euros, and someone who has a salary of 1,000 euros pays off a 150-euro loan. Well, that's the difference. So he says, who has 1,000 euros, he, you know, pays more credit, he's in a much harder financial situation. Well, that's what they do here, so an ordinary citizen can get confused. There's no story of a double personality, there's no story of their principle. There's a problem that my arguments, arguments based on SNS policy, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, cannot win, so it's easiest to accuse, to make up, not to tell the truth. It doesn't matter who's going to beat and compete in the National Assembly. As his colleague said, in a few months, we will have elections, so citizens will judge who he was, what results he has and who should lead the Republic of Serbia. Looks to me like it hurts the most in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70334	Thank you, colleague Arsic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70335	Dearly-presented among the proposed laws, I appreciate that the Law on List is very important for all citizens of this country, and especially for us Bosniaks, and, more specifically, 10 years ago, in 2011 we had some problems with the census, given that then the Sandzak area, more specifically Bosniaks, even more concrete members of the Islamic community, were exposed to numerous tortures by the then-Tadiæ government and authorities, and this almost daily practice of police abuse against the Islamic community institutions, against its members. But what made the whole situation more difficult is that most often all of these events, tortures and abuses of leverage and judicial and police authorities against Bosniaks in Sandzak were ignored by the media, because it was famous for so-called. Democratic power. Then this democratic government was allowed all sorts of and non-democratic behavior. So, behold, we, thank God, have also welcomed that democratic government to fall and hope, if God does, that we will never have such a democratic power again. The experiences we have been carrying since then are very serious, especially with the list, because then we, which means a very significant number of Bosniak nationalities have not participated in the list. So the list was partly boycotted and that actually means that the list failed and that means that we didn't have valid data on that space related, first of all, to the population, but also to all the other items that concerned the list. So, I'm glad that here's the law that, in some ways, improves the list procedure, technologically, also adds, I hope that next year we have an atmosphere that will certainly be different. I believe there will be no cause for any group to avoid the list, or to call for a boycotting list. The census is very important, as for future economic projections of development, for monitoring the general demographic situation, but also for members of the national communities, and in our case also means for members of the Bosniak people in Serbia. It is of paramount importance that we have accurate census data so that we can and on this basis exercise all those collective rights that belong to us under the Constitution and that we want together with all the levers of the state system to continue to advance. Also, I find it a very important and joyful skill to finally remove the last administrative barriers and to build a children's clinic in Tirshaw, therefore, a clinic that is of general national importance. I know well how many parents, or children, and from the Sandzak area, are referred to this clinic, and that is certainly something that will be of great benefit to the citizens. However, what I want to point out is that the hospital centre in Novi Pazar has recently been overloaded, given that the wider part of the region is actually referred to that hospital and that we should reconsider the possibility of setting up, then building a clinical centre in Novi Pazar, since we have all three and four clinical centres, respectively, are actually geographically in one third of the territory of the state of Serbia. So, all four clinical centres are located in the northeast of the country, so Nis, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, while the other two thirds of the country, meaning, the whole south, southwest, west of the country are without a clinical center, which actually burdens these clinical centres, but also the communication possibility of transporting patients. That is why I consider it of utmost importance, not only of close interest to Novi Pazar or Sandzak, who was also attacked by both northern Montenegro and northern Kosovo, with patients. In that case, it would mean opening up a new treatment space, what is necessary and of interest to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70336	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. I respect and respect your opinion and attitude, I didn't want to interrupt you, but we haven't reached the List Act yet, we're talking about an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. But it's okay. I had no intention of interrupting you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70337	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all remember that these unfortunates who boycott the work of the National Assembly, but do not boycott the case of the Serbian state, as they were guarding the course. By buying on the market they tried, but despite spending foreign exchange reserves, the course went to 120 dinars in a few years with 78 dinars, or 118 dinars. It was so much in June 2012, it's even lower today. Maintaining a course for seven years, and increasing foreign reserves means something. To increase the gold reserves by 100% and for something more, it means that from somewhere there was a flow of foreign exchanges, which means that foreign investments were significant. This also means that our exports have increased, because foreign investments have also brought markets where the goods produced are placed. Our economic stability rests on industrial manufacturing. GDP has not only developed in other people's goods trade in recent years, it has developed in the construction industry and in the processing industry, which it promises in the long term. In 2012 and 2013 Montenegro was for us Eldorado and for wages that were 150 euros higher than in Serbia. Today, wages in Serbia are higher than in Montenegro. Montenegro's public debt, which is perhaps the reason why Milo Djukanovic converts economic and social dissatisfactions towards the SPC and the Serbian issue in Montenegro, seeking to avoid any crisis of responsibility for Montenegro's increasingly difficult situation. I don't want Montenegro to be bad, but I have to compare that the Serbian people know that Serbia has recovered economically, that it has risen, that Serbia's public debt, despite having made 320km of highways, 50%, despite the rise in industrial production, the rise in factories, the industrial zone, Serbia has a 50% public debt relative to GDP and is moving into a new investment cycle through 15 billion public investments over the next five years. Despite everything, Serbia's debt did not exceed 50% and is well below those prescribed 60% in Europe. Montenegro's debt is over 80%. The annual debt growth in Montenegro is 600m euros, Montenegro is falling into major economic perils. Serbs in Montenegro need to know, to be careful, to avoid any danger that Milo Djukanovic does not attempt some conflicts to amneste himself of responsibility for Montenegro's difficult social economic situation, and thus Serbs. We also have to announce to the citizens of Montenegro, as well as to the citizens of Serbia, that the revenues from tourism in Serbia are now 1.5 billion, and I think in 2019 when we get final data that tourism revenues are 1.7 billion or 70% more than the sea-based Montenegro and that potential does not benefit thanks to poor economic policy by Milo Djukanovic, which is why I believe that Montenegrin citizens who are not Orthodox religions and Serbian nationalities have sublimely rebelled. Montenegro also has a trade deficit. Its exports are 300 million and imports are 1.6 to 1.7, which is 1.3 billion or 28% of GDP more imported than they export. Milo Djukanovic is trying to come out of this situation in a way you can see by kicking, urinating on the flag, kicking Serbian young men, etc. My appeal to Serbs, my appeal to the believers of the Serbian Orthodox Church, my appeal to the citizens of Montenegro, not to fall for the "fores", as the young say, Mil Djukanovic, but to be pursued for economic hardships and not only because of the kidnapping or attempted kidnapping of the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70338	Thank you, colleague Rističević. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70339	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, the National Bank of Serbia is an institution that is fundamentally responsible for creating an environment that leads to significant and very positive changes in Serbia's economic development, especially in Leskovac. After many years of camping, we are witnessing the opening of a large number of jobs in production plants that have established both domestic and foreign investors. Thanks to the monetary policy that led to the stabilisation of prices and inflation movements in absolutely planned frameworks as well as the course that allowed the economy to plan instead of speculating, a large number of companies decided to start production and increase in the period from 2012 to 2019, right in Leskovac. I would point out "Jinsi", "Falke" "Juru", "Autostop", "Interiors", "Tera style", "Mlados", "Mlekara Leskovac", "Nevena color" and many others. These business entities opened before 6,000 new jobs in that period, which you will admit is a significant momentum for Leskovac, to be re-established and imposed as an industrial centre of southern Serbia, a position long since lost and particularly catastrophic privatisation, by robbery privatisations from 2000 to 2012. You shouldn't forget agricultural production. The policy, which pays particular attention to agricultural and subsidisation and payment policies, introduced significant amounts of payment turnover into legal flows, and the amount and volume of agricultural production in the wooded area is growing significantly year by year. In addition to the fact that Leskovac is a significant producer of large agricultural products, whose culture is variable for various reasons, and thus variable prices and earnings, wood farmers who are market-defined by the list find understanding of this movement and often point out in a direct conversation that business has never been safer and that product placement is always possible with domestic and very modern production. This type of production is characteristic of these areas, so I would point out that co-operation between producers and local self-government based on understanding and assistance, and never on blackmail or blockages, which harm everyone. Leskovac farmers, and many of them are considered very wealthy hosts, always point out that the work they do is difficult, that profit is not possible overnight and that it takes a lot of work and knowledge, but that the result is not lacking. In the town of Leskovac, on the territory of the city, I remind you, live the best vegetables and excellent fruit trees in our Serbia. In the end, the severe torment of the results achieved in the economy and agriculture of the woodland, through the politics of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, must defend against the malicious ones who do not have or want to have them, to the centres of power that are marginalised and who are prevented from robbing, but who are still waiting for their chance. That is why we must endure our policy of working in the defence of the interests of citizens and Serbia's economy to defend the environment in which we want to live peacefully and prosperously, both us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70340	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70341	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected MPs, responsible policies of the National Bank of Serbia, a stable and predictable course of the dinar, discusses a major improvement in security and certainly contributes to potential investors, especially foreign investors who have shown interest in new commercials on our market. The growth of our economy is the main objective of the economic policy that we are leading. Increasing the availability and attractiveness of domestic charters of value to investors reduce the cost of funding and provide better diversification of investors investing in domestic securities of value. The responsible policy has managed to arrange the finances to increase the credit rating. We also have low interest rates. This way we reduce the cost of capital for our country, reduce the risk of investment for our country. This refers to the stability and security of the financial system. This shows investors have confidence in Serbia's financial system, and the businessmen who open their factories here also have confidence. This is about companies that plan their business in the long term. By investing in securities of value and an excellent investor response to our charters at a rate of 10 years at an interest rate of 1.25%, Serbia is more attractive, safe, safe for them. These are all the results of economic policy. All of these are indicators of positive economic trends that are significant and that in a very short time have raised Serbia's momentum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70342	Thank you, colleague Ljubic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Milena Turk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70343	Thank you, Chairman. During today's debate on several occasions, we could hear that the Republic of Serbia needs to invest more intensively in its own economy, and indeed when we draw the line and sum up the results, it can be said that it is clear that the strategic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, SNS, Alexander Vukic, is just an intense investment in reviving our economy and its development, because it is a driver and it is an opportunity for our people to employ and start all our ends. Indeed, I have to point out that when it comes to the "Feding" in Triestenik, up until a few years ago, this factory, or the workers of this factory, were working in really inadequate conditions, in the halls that were sneezing, in halls that didn't have heating. They only received 20% of the salary, they didn't even have medical books. They didn't have a chance to retire because the internship wasn't paid, it wasn't connected. The machines were obsolete. This factory was blocked and only for electricity owed over 50 million dinars. Indeed, the factory that was one step closer to bankruptcy is really on the verge of collapse. In the past few years alone, this factory has experienced one twist and has been operating positively for four years and has no credit obligations. We are proud to point out that factory workers in agreement with Director Angelka Atanaskovic have made a decision to invest in the purchase of new machinery, so they bought nine new factories worth $2 million from their own funds, not from credit duties. The state also received money to improve a 3.5m-euro machinery park. Our engineers are working on developing new programs, factories are also working on the development of a civil program, and it's really going a long way forward. Halls were renovated and over 30 million were invested only in improving the conditions in which workers work, therefore in their protection, in systematic preventive checks, in gasification, in ice lighting, kitchen, in everything that has been neglected for years, which has failed and has been devastated. It is indeed a clear difference how former representatives, the bearers of responsibility, treated the resources they were entrusted with and what the situation is today. I also have to point out that now, every month, for these workers, there are two years back, and they're in a much better position when the time comes to retire, when their pensions will be bigger or they'll be able to raise that money. Indeed, one responsible relationship towards both workers and Triestenik himself and the defence industry, because the entire government of the Republic of Serbia has made such a decision that it wants to support these companies, to guarantee their contracts, to advance the economy. Indeed today, we are proud to say that the purpose vehicle is both the trigger and the Trieste and the Rasin County and the whole of Serbia. Unfortunately, however, we can, of those tourist MPs, who occasionally come to the Assembly and conduct dialogues in the halls, hear, of course, in the hall, at conferences, factory, fictional stories, intended only to acquire some media attention and petty political points. They don't think about how much damage they do to the workers of these factories and to the entire defence industry of our country. Miroslav Aleksic, who had just held such a conference in the National Assembly Hall, did not mind when residents of his town earned 20% of their salary, earning more, but receiving only 20% of the salary. Today, he's upset when the average salary in Purpose is in Triestenik, 65,000 dinars. Indeed, the question arises - do he and Marinika Tepic and all those who speak so lightly and make some flat-rate statements, think about how much damage they do to both the defence industry and all the workers? It simply raises the question, do they realize the interests of some other foreign countries, because the fact that they are harming their own defence industry and their own country? Instead of celebrating that at the end of the year the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a regulation which also places both the Purpose in Triestenik and the TMO factory as members of the Defence Industry Group, the TMO as the holder of basic technologies and puts them under its protection, intending to invest and develop these factories and to achieve the country's strategic goal, when, in terms of defence industry, the production of military equipment and weapons. Instead of celebrating what happened at this moment, they're making a statement, unchecked. And if they were honest people, they'd show that the DRI denied all of their claims. That would be objective, that would be honorable, but unscrupulous people just tend to get petty political points and get petty attention. The National Assembly and this great hall, the tide is where these topics are discussed. Here they were delegated by the citizens to represent their interests, not to allow tourists to come to the National Assembly when they wanted them to. He also owes Miroslav Aleksic to explain to all those people, all thousands and a half of people who supported him in Tristenik to represent them in the National Assembly, to explain exactly which leader, the quasi-leader, supports, whether Dragan Gilas, who claims that our highways are unnecessary, that the Moravia Corridor is one expensive and unnecessary project, or Vuk Jeremic, which claims that this important corridor will connect Kragujevac and Užice, to simply define which one of these quasi leaders supports, because they cannot even within their own organisation consensus to achieve. It's simple, and if, by any chance, we get citizens' support, the question of what would happen to all these important projects, with all these highways, and if we were to meet again on the brink of destruction, as we found in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70344	Thank you, colleague Turk. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70345	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, respected citizens, and above all my neighbors from the Old Town municipality. My colleagues today speak and deliver numerous results from local self-government, where it is in the power of the SNS and where we can really raise ourselves with a number of improvements that have been made in raising the quality of life of our citizens, many achievements in culture, which we have managed to do, in health, social protection, infrastructure, etc. I am fortunate to live in the territory of the Old Town municipality, for me the most beautiful municipality in Belgrade, Serbia. Everyone's most beautiful, of course. But I also have the misfortune that in that municipality there is a coalition headed by Marko Bastac, known as "the bag". This person or character, it is difficult to call him a person, tweet, and instead of using, well, a little time left for him to go to prison and leave the seat of the president of the Old Town municipality, to correct as much the sad, tragic impression he left during his term in the Old Town municipality, he continues to hallucinate. As I said earlier, those over seven tons of drugs that were seized produced a crisis in one part of the opposition, and they're seeing a lot of things. They see weapons, they see apartments, they see cars, everything they have from 2000 to 2012. I'll remind you, in 2000, they stole weapons from a police station in Mother Jerosima, so with these weapons they killed their political and their criminal opponents and competitors. So then they see their apartments, and we know they've acquired them, and in particular Dragan Gilas is a great fan, a fan of expensive villas around Senjak and Dedinj. Well, we remember that unfortunate Mickey Mouse Djelic. He's also a big fan of millions, but only in foreign currency. We remember Milovanovic, too. We also remember the one from the "Resistance", as the unfortunate one, who later opened fast feeds across Belgrade and Serbia. It's all from the money of Serbian citizens. One of the last of those gardens of the unfortunate regime, the robber, Marko Bastic, known as "the bag", is, I would say, a character that has been trying in the last months of his mandate to betray all citizens of the Old City. He moved from godfathers to neighbours, to the citizens of Old Town, who daily in our senseless posters that are beautiful to the entrances of the Old Town, trying to upset the public, and by introducing the Troleibian lines, where we are trying to improve city traffic in Belgrade, to enable better communication among the people, to improve infrastructure, to do something to make the citizens of the Old Town, as far as we can, even though they are still in power, I hope not for long, those who guard their backs and who guard the freedom of Dragan Gilasu, Marko Bastac, known as "the bag". They go and drill everything SNS does every day to try to make the citizens of Old Town at least feel a little better in this difficult time. I hope so, and I'm sure the time will come, and here comes the moment of elections in the Old Town municipality, to finally, after two and a half decades, free the community from those people who only saw it as an opportunity to sit in the seat of the president of the municipality or the head of the municipal administration, to take money from investors, to take money from legalization. He hopes, he wishes, he will not boycott the Old Town elections, because he will not, he sees a chance for a combination in what the municipality today participates in legalisation, in giving building permits. It's for him, Mecca and Medina. He hopes that he will take some money again, that he will be able to kidnap again, that he will continue to increase his wealth. He's talking about other people's apartments he doesn't have. He's talking about some pitchforks, some money. It's all an auto projection. Marko Bastic, Dragan Djilas, Marinika unhappy Cobana Tepic, as his last name is already known, knows neither Borko Stefanovic nor the others, do anything but stand in front of the mirror, hold the phone in their hand and write tweets about themselves. By speaking, they speak of no one from the SNS, at least of Alexander Vukic, Nebojsa Stefanovic, Mark Atlagic, Vlada Orlic and other honest and honest officials. They don't talk about them, they talk about themselves. Just what they're saying and what they're saying is a picture and opportunity of their regime, an opportunity and a coalition that's been strangling the Old Town for over two decades, an opportunity and an unfortunate noose that's tightening around the necks of the Old Town's citizens. I am confident and believe that, I hope, in late April, the citizens of Old Town will be responsible and are. I talk to neighbors in Old Town every day. I live on Venizelis Street. People can't live more than them. They say – here, we have better urban transport, bus transport, trolleybus transport. It's Dushan's street. It's that there are problems, but there's a lot of work to be done. People, where you work, you can make a mistake. They absolutely didn't do anything on the infrastructure, so of course they didn't do much wrong. Where they worked, there were millions of affairs left, not in dinars, in euros. They're big foreign currency lovers, big fans of the euro and dollars. They, wherever they had the chance to do something about the infrastructure they missed, but where they worked, they saw that as much as they could take. They were talking about woodlands, so I'll remind you, those platans in King Alexander's Boulevard, those great environmentalists, the environment, they cut down everything they could in Belgrade, wherever there was an opportunity. They didn't get any parks fixed up in this town. They gave no playground to the children a chance to play safe, but they built the "Watchel City" where a child could have died if it had been released. Their parks came down on Djura Daničić's street in Old Town when Bastac tried to do something there, so he stole neither do I know how many million dinars in that park alone. So everything where anything went wrong didn't end up. When they worked, it was done without permission. If it's over, it's over insecure. If it was working, they were making rags of Terrasia, so they stole millions of dinars. If anything, those trams were bought, half of which fell apart immediately, so they were paid more than they were paid in Hungary by the same trams. So wherever we go... I can speak here for the next three hours and it won't be enough to bring out everything that Marko Bastic, better known as "the bag", Borko Stefanovic, Dragan Djilas, everyone in his field of business, stole and where they all made an accident for the citizens of Serbia, and I stress... I called about Old Town County. I was encouraged by my colleagues who talk all morning about what was achieved in their local self-government, how well it was done, how many miles of roads, how many new parks, how many new buses were purchased, how many health homes were restored, how many new ones we made in Belgrade. I'll give you an example. All citizens can be informed through the media, to repeat, why so many attacks on Nebojsa Stefanovic, so here is a new fire-saving station in Zajecar, for the first time in 40 years a new fire-saving station was created. Hundreds of new vehicles have been purchased for our police and for all its services. Police were first equipped with several sets of uniforms, with new weapons, new techniques, sending people to training, resulting in more than seven tonnes of seized drugs last year, record, less crime rates, fewer murders. In this country, the fact, lives far better, but it's not worth it. Some people live on Twitter, living in how many followers they have on Twitter, false profiles. I'm not interested in Twitter followers, and I'm not interested in the number of them. I want to know what we have in real life. Let them continue to win on Twitter, on Twitter, and they can steal, for that they do not respond, to Twitter, to kidnap, to shut down profiles, to block with their blocked minds, however they will, only to stop blocking our Old Town, our Belgrade and our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70346	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragana Barisic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70347	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would agree fully with my colleague Filipovic and with my colleague Turk, especially when it comes to a man who regularly visits this assembly, or more precisely the hall of this tall home, and brings forth a series of lies without red-faced faces, because this man obviously has no shame. The man is also registered on a regular basis today and is taking travel expenses on which he confirms the list in the Assembly's hall, where Mr Miroslav Aleksic is duly signed and therefore taking travel expenses from Belgrade to Triestenik and back, without entering this hall of pljemska and contributing to what, said counterpart Turk, he was elected and delegated by the citizens. When my colleague Filipovic spoke of "Twitter" and other social networks, I would also like to say that this colleague, Alexic, who changed a series of parties from G17 plus, through the People's Party, I do not know which, lastly, we know the URS and others, sold the last to Jeremic and now some Jeremic's errand boy along with Marinika and other MPs who sold themselves. Just change the name on social networks and the poor one lives in the delusion that there are over a thousand followers, and in fact I don't know if there are 20 in Triestenik, because we know that in the election of those who were two, three years ago, in Počekovina, he got two votes. So, not two percent, that we understand each other, but two votes, which means neither those who kept the ballot boxes voted, Malten. Otherwise, this man tries almost daily by how many times he enrolls in lists where all of us as MPs are enrolled. So he walks almost daily to the congregation and enrolls for the sake of taking travel expenses. It's used to bring up lies, and it's almost every time they mention us from Racine County. Is that Mr. Gasic, Director of BIA or one of us MPs or President Vukic, who he is obsessed with, but can't answer all those questions that we asked him from these places, so what happened at the time when he was president of Tristenik Municipality? How did he get sick, first of all, "The First Five-year-old"? We know and once again I want to repeat, because Serbian citizens deserve, citizens of Rasin County and Triestenik, above all. What did he do for The First Five-year-old? What kind of debts did he leave? At the top positions at the time, when he was president of the municipality, were his closest, so Ljubisa Knezevic's father-in-law, his mother-in-law, Mrs. Knezevic, and Mr. Aleksic, too. What did he do when he accused the BIA of following him and allegedly announcing some drones showing up on his apartment terrace? What happened to that? Is that a joke like a dozen-year-old kid doesn't use? The fact that he's not here right now and he can't stand such pointless amendments might be better, because it saves the money of the Serbian citizens, because all we know is that he's been putting up with his friends for pointless amendments, so he once wanted Santa to come through the Assembly chimney. And let me remind you that he took the tractor, and today he spits both the Ministry of Agriculture and all the other ministries, but he's using that tractor. The only thing I don't know is if he managed to plant all those orchards on the current route of building the Moravia Corridor, because he was doing it planically, too, buying land where the Moravia Corridor should pass, so he could charge for it now. Now, he wasn't that smart, but I ask him once again that money he's been taking from this congregation's cash register and all those salaries he's been receiving for over a year, and he's not coming here and he's not fighting for a better life of citizens, that for humanitarian purposes, if the other doesn't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70348	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70349	Thank you, Chairman. I stayed in debt to my neighbors from Old Town. There's a warrant on Twitter. It's not my idea to advertise it, but I have to say what Marko Bastac is actually doing behind it. He says that what SNS does at Belgrade level and what is the authority of the city of Belgrade, the performance of works carried out in the Old Town, will drop the price of squares in our municipality. Again, it's another lie, another lie. I'm going to give you an example of my street where the price of new construction three years ago at the corner of Venizelos and Budimska went somewhere between 1,700 and 2,100 euros per square. Now a new complex of "New Dorcool" is being built on Venizelos Street where anyone who calls that company tries to talk to their representatives, is interested in buying an apartment, will get information that the price of the cheapest apartment in buildings they make, which they started working, is being laid based, 2,850 euros per square. The price at the Belgrade city level from 2016 to today, up to the end of January 2020, jumped by more than 30%. So, all the work done in Belgrade raises the quality of life, raises the number of employees, we have a record low number of unemployment in the city, raises the average level of earnings, in Belgrade is over 75, 80,000 average salaries, Belgrade is far better living, and therefore the price of squares jumps. You have a greater demand for squares in the city of Belgrade. So again, some demagogue story is being planted on the citizens that the price of their square is going to fall. If the quality of life is better, if demand is higher, if you live better, the conditions of life in those places are better, the price of squares jumps. It's just someone who's a total idiot, total ignorant, or under the fact of some kind of narcotics, or under a crisis, because narcotics are getting smaller, can do that kind of nonsense, that kind of nebulosis is writing. They say the works carried out by the city of Belgrade, i.e. the competent companies in the Old Town municipality, were citizens of the Old Town against these works and they conducted some surveys. No such polls were shown, nor were the results of those polls. So, another lie again. The city of Belgrade, when it does something, is known to conduct a survey on its site. The citizens of Belgrade have the opportunity to make known the things they want to do, where they want to, under what conditions, etc. So the city of Belgrade is very transparent. When he says we asked the citizens, he has a basis to prove that we really asked the citizens what they think about something that is done in Belgrade, we have evidence to show which citizens are and when they say, how, how, what they want to do in Belgrade, and what they don't want to do. But citizens have one place that part of the opposition has started to hate more and more, unfortunately, because the opposition should worship elections in every normal country because it's an opportunity to shift power, they hate elections. They hate elections because they hate citizens, because they know that citizens can no longer see them and that they will not see them in the same composition as the republican parliament, its parking lot, or the park, or any local parliament, because citizens of Serbia, Belgrade and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia will no longer see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70350	Thank you, colleague Filipovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 5. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70351	In this proposal, the amendments and additions are about creating the possibility that this business with respect to the placement, realisation or balancing, as it is said, of these securities dealing with foreign legal persons, that this possibility is opened, meaning, apart from the Central Register of the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Serbia is now opening up the possibility that these securities of value can also be placed by foreign legal persons, to appear. Here, the minister told us that the handicraft was increased, charged, the manual was an increase of up to 20 years, that is, on the internal market up to 12 years, if I remembered correctly or maybe I've permuted, but no one here wants to reduce the importance of increasing the robustness, because it stems from confidence, from the credibility of the economic capacity of a state. But we have to keep in mind how much we owe on the basis of the issue of securities of value, under which conditions, these are all important elements, because remember, 20 years is long, and a conditionally river period. The question is, what's the situation going to be with returning these obligations? Why? Because the college can be revenues from Serbia, from which it will be charged in case of any disturbance or property, not Serbia, but any state. We have listened to these stories, yet in our ears the economic prosperity and progress that Bozidar Djelic, Vlahović, Pitic and Labus brought us. And today their story of how we are literally predetermined to be in charge and that doesn't matter, we can be in debt as long as we want, interpret, freely as they represent us. They were commended. Well, remember that Djelic, a man came naked, which would say, and he left with 10 million euros in capital and we listened to it. Now those obligations they imposed, they pay for this set of powers. We only pay a billion euros a year on behalf of interest, and we cannot agree with that explanation that these are the largest part of the interest from earlier periods, there are interest rates from these periods when this government, seven years is this furniture in power. Seven years is not a small period. There's a lot of it, and these, in the end, records of values that were placed were billable for a shorter period of two to three years. That's what came in. So a billion Serbia stands out for interest. It's not at all commendable. That's what we need to take care of, not listen to the praises here, so let's go see what it's like on local self-government. I don't mind talking about it, too, but it's not a topic. It takes a lot more rational to look at everything that's about securities than value.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70352	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the next item of the agenda, the search in particular, the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Census of dwellings, households and dwellings 2021. A year. You have received amendments submitted by MPs of the People's Republic of Radeta, Petar Jojic, Sreto Peric, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Milorad Mirčić, Nemanja Sarović, Miljan Damjanovic, Nikola Savivić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Dubravko Bojić, Filip Stojanović, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Zoran Despotović, Ruzica Nikolic and Marijan Risticevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as we have the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70353	The population list law, the way it's presented to us, and the way it's supposed to be adopted, it's not good. The government obviously didn't realize that the census wasn't just about statistics that would tell us how much we have and how accurate and true it is. What concerns us is that it is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not taken care of and has done nothing between the two lists to improve certain things in the state. I guess the census is done because, based on the data of the competent authorities that are given that list, we could draw certain conclusions and take certain measures, so that something positive would happen in the country. We have therefore said in this amendment that this member who speaks of the subject of the law must present a legal framework, among other things, for the implementation of the census of the population, households and dwellings in 2021. You were in some not so long ago period, it was in the other half of last year, sending censuses to some ad hoc selected address and household, with some questions that, believe me, not one percent of people answered correctly. You have obliged households to keep records of daily household spending, food, hygiene funds, wardrobes, utility services. It's something you can certainly get from certain services. Do you think someone was willing to write, regardless of what an anonymous poll is, at least that's how it is presented, but somewhere it's written name and last name, do you think it's no matter where people admit they live, they have nothing to eat and so on? You think someone really wrote in that list, say they buy two bananas a week? Probably people wrote pounds of bananas a day. So they're not your indicators, nor can they be. You could get that data on daily consumption very easily by crossing the minimum profit with the lowest consumer basket and then you could see that the minimum profit was 27,022 dinars at the time, and that the consumer basket was then 37,000 dinars and you could calculate as statisticians how much each day someone could spend on daily needs and how much money he was missing. Worse than having to do with statistics and what you're telling us in public, let's say those people who came to that list work on a temporary and occasional contract for 15, 20 years. They count on your record as employees. They work up to 120 days with a break from who knows how many days, sometimes months, and then when you need them again, get them back in there. They're not actually in a working relationship, they can't achieve any of the rights that people who are employed can't take a loan, they can't take consumer checks, they can't do anything, they can't be in a working relationship. Such people, the gentleman from the Department of Statistics certainly know, such people have more than 50,000. So that's how you actually show that these are your subpar data with which we, and the percentages, with which you bomb us every day in public, are actually far from the truth. So the bill is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70354	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, MP Miletic Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70355	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, all of these views that are being expressed in favour of the non-compliance of this law or the lack of defiance, I believe that they should be rejected and that the Census Act should certainly be adopted and passed. Of course, in this debate there is the possibility of repairing certain provisions of this law. No law, no proposal is ideal, it may be adopted with certain shortcomings, but, of course, in some next step, it will be corrected, because over time, some mistakes may be detected, or in practice, shown. It's important that we have a matter governed by one of these laws, because this matter is very important to one society and to one state, to its future. In fact, based on these data, certain moves, certain actions, certain actions and certain plans of the state itself are being counter-citated, and of course it is useful for the whole country, and each serious state through its government should go to meet with the resolution of such problems that are identified through the conduct of the census. The census isn't just an administrative act that comes up with some figures about the number of residents, apartments and other data, but is actually one different goal, it actually meets through taking all the measures that a government needs to do, in the face of what may come in 10, 20 and 30 years. That's why I think it's absolutely necessary to pass a law like this with this debate that we have, of course I'm not contesting it, but I'm speaking in favor of how useful and important it is to have one such law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70356	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. Do you want a replica of Radeta's colleagues? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70357	No law-making, lack of law, errors observed during the application of the law, so changes and additions change, are completely different terminology and have a completely different meaning and meaning. We didn't say we didn't need this law, the law with this title. It should, but we said that this law is not good, and you will see through our amendments and during the debate how many failures there are and how much this law is really just one descriptive state of something that will be done in 2021, something that takes place as a list of population, households and dwellings. It's not good when, when the law is passed, we're thinking about seeing some mistakes, some failures in the course of law enforcement. This law doesn't apply every day. This law will apply on the next list. Okay, there are some provisions that oblige the Bureau of Statistics, etc., but essentially this law will apply in 2021 and as it says in this law – never again. Because you, when we get to that, we're going to talk about a completely unambiguous proposal that no more censuses in Serbia will be made, but that based on some data, analysis, and I don't know what to conclude. You with this law, and only in this future, but right now I'm talking about this, you actually want to hide from the public the right state when it comes to statistics and I'm talking about it through every bill, give the right statistical data, the data that the economists ask you to do, so let's get a completely different result on many topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70358	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70359	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a bill on censuses and how important and significant it is, above all, from the aspect of collecting relevant data. Why is the relevant data even relevant in one country? In order to adequately adopt plans that most often have a strategic character and to define those strategic plans the objectives to be achieved in one or more areas. Most of the time, it's more areas that can be connected, and they don't have to. Anyway, life is such that it is intertwined and of course all these strategic documents and should have a better quality of life for the ultimate purpose of each citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Why is the collection of data, relevant data, please, I say relevant data, because only relevant data can be used for analysis and for the purpose of adequate planning. They are also important in terms of adopting a legislative framework in various areas of social life, also with the aim of improving the quality of life of citizens. I must point out that since the 1970s, based on all the censuses that were made, and they work for a period of ten years, it has been observed that the number of live births in Serbia is decreasing, and the number of deaths is increasing, or more than the number of live births. No one to Alexander Vukic under the rug pulled out such a significant and perhaps the most significant problem in the Republic of Serbia, which was the problem of reducing the population and reducing life in these areas. Therefore, statistics are also used for the purpose of creating an adequate population policy. The first to get that problem under the carpet and ask a question of life, first of all, is Alexander Vukic. A special ministry has been formed, but not only has a special ministry been formed, it is of course working in the area of population policy, a series of measures have been adopted to encourage and support birth in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as only a large number of residents are guaranteed the survival of the Republic of Serbia and this is a national issue number one. These birth support measures proposed by Aleksandar Vukic are measures relating to the firstborn child - 100,000 dinars, then measures related to mothers, parental tasks for the third and fourth children. For the first time, Alexander Vucic, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, passed a legal regulation allowing mothers born to receive a parental supplement over a period of 10 years, one of 12 000 dinars a month, and the other of 18,000 dinars a month relating to the fourth child. Also, Aleksandar Vucic, with his "Serbia 2025" plan, envisioned an additional 700m euros for young people who would make it easier for young married apartments through some minimum participation, then predicted 200m euros just to encourage financial support measures for families with children. So, from the point of view of life, from the point of view of restoring the population and how important the list is. Also, I must point out that only Alexander Vucic and the policy he realises recognized the importance of opening highways and restoring regional roads, both roadways and rail and air traffic. Why? Because roads not only allow faster flow of people, goods and capital, but highways and ever-renewed regional roads allow the population to stay in the area where they really live, to keep our young people on their hearths and not to move between smaller places to larger places, and these are mostly the largest cities: Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis. Also, opening factories across Serbia is a way of reducing migration movements. An increase in wages, now worth over 500 euros, also contributes to a better quality of life for citizens. With the "Serbia 2025" plan, Aleksandar Vukic projected that these salaries would amount to about 900 euros and a minimum pension would be between 430 and 440 euros. Life policy, which is an integral part of Alexander Vukic's policy, will win the elections, as Serbian citizens believe in life, do not believe in the death and robbery of those who exercised power by 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70360	Comrade Radeta, would you like a word? (Miss Radeta: Replica. Replica? My colleague didn't even say she wouldn't vote for your amendment, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70361	She was talking about my amendment. If I were Alexander Vukic, I would ask the MPs of the government not to defend me, because what we've heard right now is undoing the existence of both the government and the National Assembly and all the other organs. First, we don't have a ministry that deals with population policy. We have a minister without a portfolio who has a special responsibility, among other things, to deal with the team. Secondly, incentivising families with children, the law was not passed by the government or Alexander Vukic, the law was passed here in the National Assembly. Alexander Vukic's contribution to increasing the birth rate is his three children, let him be alive and well and indeed is an excellent example of every family and every man in Serbia, but don't, you started yesterday, today you continue, my people, don't humiliate the National Assembly in this way. Laws are passed in the National Assembly. We say, those laws relating to population policy are not good. You did something, you did some step, you did something better than it was, but it's still not good. A child is born, gets $100,000, gets some more funding up to a certain number of years, and when we get to adulthood, we have a problem with how that child gets to work, how that child gets to the apartment, how that child, but a man, starts living normally. The result of our poor policies is daily packed suitcases and the departure of young people from Serbia and the departure of entire families because they don't see the possibility of a more normal, better and more successful life here, better than corridors, better than highways, a life that really means the normal life of every family every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70362	Comrade Orlic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group, do you want a replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70363	A truly moving concern for our MPs and the president of our party, along with the president of Serbia, is what suits us, or does not respond when said. Of course it suits us when it is said that Alexander Vukic is the first man, how well she noticed it and quite correctly presented our colleague, defined as a subject dealing with Serbia's public question about how tomorrow, what is our future and what can we do to ensure that this future is more certain, that it will be better. Among other things, and by showing that this future belongs to young people in this country, to provide these young people with more perspectives, certainly much more possibilities, which means more jobs and other living conditions and those infrastructures we often talk about, which we didn't have, and now, as well as a better standard, of course. This certainly includes measures that directly encourage good, wise population policy. So no one can say that it's not good that we've significantly increased the first child's giving, the second child's giving, the third child's. Just compare today's situation to what it looked like once, so you'll see how it works with a factor of 2, 3, 5 times better. Compare with what Alexander Vukic himself said as a plan for what we will do only in the period ahead of us. Be aware and do not be incorrect to keep it quiet or even try to make a mockery of it, that we are in a position to do all of this precisely because our host country today is managed, which this country has enough power and potential, which has the means to finance and support these things. These are all, of course, the fruits of politics established personally by Aleksandar Vukic and led personally by Aleksandar Vukic and has nothing to bother anyone when it is made clear and loud. Lastly, it is particularly hypocritical to say – because some people in this country are leaving because poor politics in Serbia. And then what do people leave any other country that is considered successful? Did you ever hear someone decide to change the environment, so they don't live in the United States, Germany or France anymore? Are you saying this isn't happening? Well, it won't happen. People have different motives, but that something better is the quality of life or some will say significantly better, let them be right, in different Western European countries than in Serbia, it's simply a fact and I don't believe that one day they'll be able to say that we have exceeded them by standard. It'll certainly be a motive for some people to want to make a difference. What's true is that today in Serbia we have a successful policy, where and where more successful than when the former regime on this country took care of it, and this policy today is about just looking for good answers to what else we can do to encourage people to stay in this country. Today these things are seriously considered, today these things are serious, and all a decent man can do is say – well done for such an approach!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70364	Thank you, colleague Orlic. My colleague Vukojičić, you want a replica because your colleague Radeta... ? (Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić: pa change. You want to follow the amendment? You have to wait because a colleague of Radeta wants a replica, so you'll get a word. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70365	It's true, somewhere families move. [[Veroljub Arsic: She has the right to replication.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70366	Wait a minute, excuse me, I'll give it back. As the question arises, I asked my colleague Vukojicic if he wanted to follow the amendment or wanted a replica, believing he had a basis for replication. She wanted to follow the amendment, and a colleague of Radeta's... (Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić: We did not understand each other. ) You have to wait, since I gave Radeti my word, so I'll let you know, because I asked you precisely if you wanted a replica or an amendment. (The Belief of Radeta: Well, she can't change her mind, she said by amendment. Of course. Here you go. Just re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70367	Thank you. Yeah, it's true, somewhere families leave or individuals leave their country, and there's a phenomenon. I'm sorry there's a phenomenon in Serbia. We do not show any moving concern for Alexander Vukic, nor for any MP or MP group individually. We show a very moving concern, a serious, legal, state-of-the-art for the function of the president of the state, for the National Assembly, for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we show a very moving concern for the division of authorities that are increasingly denied and where, unfortunately, in the National Assembly, you imagine. We understand the pre-election euphoria, we understand the need for some of the current members of the government to try to position themselves on the next list. It's all in political life legitimate, allowed, and we don't make that problem, nor do we ever ask you why you're talking about this at this point or that. But don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. Praise the Wolf for your will, but you cannot say that the Wolf has passed a single law. You can't say the government passed a single law. Who initiated it? Who was in the task force? Who did the draft? It's important to us who sent us a proposal here, it's always the Government or a certain number of MPs, or, say, as we delivered more than 100,000 signatures and a bill of enforcers that doesn't occur to you to put on the agenda. Let's get a little boast about what is the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Ask yourself, as MPs, when will this radical proposal with more than 100,000 signatures come on the agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70368	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Comrade Orlic, do you allow first colleague Vukojičić, since we had a little misunderstanding in communication. Here's my colleague, Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact is that since the 1970s, the decline of live births has been recorded in Serbia. That's a fact, all the statistics showed. That's what every census showed. Unlike all those who have taken over power and responsibility in this country, no one has properly recognized this problem and properly pulled under the carpet to Alexander Vukic. That's true and that's true. Of course, as a national MP, I know that the government is proposing, and the National Assembly is adopting laws, proposing amendments. At the very least, the National Assembly is part of the legislative authority and of course we bring laws here. But it is also true that SNS and our President, Alexander Vukic, are Serbia in first place and life first. For this reason I mentioned, with pride and joy, because I am the mother of three children, and also of grandmother, thank God that the first person who recognized this problem and tried to propose to the government to take action to start solving this problem, is Alexander Vukic and that is the fact. What I must also point out is that last year was the first time more children were born than in the previous year. So in 2019, compared to 2018, 700 children were born more. I must also point out that this morning a competition was launched to support the national policy measures of 650 million and that all local self-governments in the Republic of Serbia have the right to compete for these measures to support the national policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70370	I thank my colleague Orlic for his understanding. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70371	Thank you again. First of all, thank you, Mrs. Vukoičić, for the extraordinary data that cannot be mated with any verbal dribbles. It's clear to all of us that we've responded to two things here. The first is, of course, a recommendation on what and how Alexander Vukic should think about how we represent his policy and give her support. The second is a completely incorrect statement that because bad policy is being conducted in this country, some people want to change the country. So, about the other one. First of all, I have to remind myself, the policy that's being conducted in Serbia today has led to this, and here's the minister who knows these things well, so he can correct me if I'm wrong. The unemployment rate falls below 10%. Right? Nine comas eight. Compare that to the period when it was being run, what kind of politics it would be. Is it successful, is it beautiful and good? When that rate was 25%. Say it's not significantly better today. You don't have to go back to those extreme, verbal manipulations that say exactly what was said earlier. The number of unemployed in Serbia is decreasing because people are leaving the country. Look at the facts, look at the data, and you'll see that there's no negative difference compared to what happened five or ten years ago. On the contrary, we can only expect positive trends now. Listen to those who certainly don't cheer for SNS, but think of it all the worst possible. When they tell you there are hundreds of thousands of new employees in this country, that can only be true. Right? And here's what Milojko Arsic says among other things. You know what he thinks about us and our politics. He says, one of the current authorities' successes is to increase registered employment over the past seven years. It says: employment in this year is higher by close to 300,000 or 16% compared to 12%. If that's what the one you know absolutely doesn't love, then I don't know who can challenge it. So this is the result of a policy aimed at the future of one who is aware that more work needs to be provided to young people in order to be more encouraged and to stay in this country. In the end, what is the relationship to the future and to the young people of Alexander Vukic, so in terms of the first question, who represents us and who should represent us? That's the best I've ever said to Alexander Wolf. A minimum of 30% of the place on our list with which we will go to the citizens of Serbia this spring will be the brand-new young people, people who are given the chance not only to work politically, but to show first of all that the frames are to fight for their country and to elect new results for it. That's what those who have a successful policy do, who have young people who are willing to deal with politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70372	Thank you. My colleague Radeta, since you too, Mr. Orlic, know that we have to finish our work by 2.30 p.m., and that we don't have double standards and arches. Since you started the dialogue, here I'll give you a line after you applied. I guess after that, Mr. Orlic will come forward with a replica and we'll be done with it for the day and we'll move on after that. If you're okay with it. If Mr. Orlic defines himself as a replica. Here's my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70373	I agree, and I'll be very brief. It would be nice when someone quotes Wolf to quote it correctly. He did say, he says it every day, wherever he picks up. He did say that at least 30% of the current MPs will be replaced in the next election list, but he said something that tells me otherwise. He said that 30% of the new ones would be young, educated, unsuspected, honest. Then I'm just wondering which 30% is there now that aren't what kind of wolf will replace them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70374	Here you go, fellow Eagle.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70375	With full certainty, I tell you all hundred percent of the candidates on our list will be those who will look after the dignity of our institutions and the National Assembly among them, of course if the SNS in that National Assembly will represent, since today concerns for institutions have been expressed, the National Assembly first among all. I'm telling you, a hundred percent of our people and our representatives on that list will take care of that dignity and never behave, in a way that could be seen yesterday in this House of the National Assembly. You know what I mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70376	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and 205th. Rules of Procedure, I set a break by 4:00 p.m., when we continue to work in the session's session on asking parliamentary questions to representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, on the last Thursday of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70377	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, first of all by Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then by MPs from least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70378	Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow MPs, representatives of the government, my question concerns the city of Priboj, more specifically from the Islamic community, asked me to address you with a question -- can we count on your help to solve the problem of the site for the construction of a mosque in New Priboj? Namely, the case is several years old and at the level of the Municipality of Pryboy, therefore, by the president of the municipality, we have a very positive position, as well as by the MPs, a colleague from Priboj, but, as I am informed, the subject has reached the Republic Property Directorate and is waiting for the government's consent. It would be of paramount importance that this issue be resolved as soon as possible, given that there is a mosque in the old town in Priboj, and in the new part of Priboj we do not have any religious object, and there is a very significant number of members of the Islamic community. In view of the overall ambience of very positive interethnic and interconfessional relations in this city, as well as its overall geographical and geopolitical importance, it would be of great importance, above all, because it is the real need of believers, but also because of the very role of Pribo and the entire civil community in this city, because we have had many positive examples of overall relations, but the government's support on this topic would be of paramount importance, to enable the believers to start building, which would mean another boost to overall and cultural and political integrations in this multicultural environment. I am going to pass on one more message from the Islamic community this time thanks for bringing two very important solutions to the Islamic community in the coverage of this government's Restitution Directorate for Disposal of Assets. After a blockade that unfortunately lasted years from previous governments, we finally got a deblockation and two very important objects were returned. One is the building of Islamic institutions in the centre of Novi Pazar and Stara Novopazarska Banja, two large vacuums, which has an exceptional importance for the Islamic community, but again I say, even more important for interfaith and international relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70379	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70380	Thank you. I'll be brief and specific. I'm supposed to be in Priboy on February 10th, February 7th, I'm in Prokuplje. It's only possible to change that, because it's probably the foreign minister of Italy coming to us on February 10th. If that happens, then I'll just move a few days, but I'll definitely be in Priboj in the first half of February, so I suggest we have a meeting, talk about this, and by then I'll check with the Republic Property Directorate as far as the case goes. If there are any problems, let's solve them, and I'll come with an answer to the Priboy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70381	Thank you. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70382	The nicest thing is when you hear the good news, especially this guy, who's very specific and armed. I expect that's exactly the day you're going to bring either a final positive answer or just a solution to it. I am sure that at this moment, the citizens of Priboj, especially those who bear responsibility in the Islamic community, who have put their most effort on this topic, are looking forward to watching the television broadcast of this Assembly. I'm undermining, these gestures are very important. So sometimes people who are more or less trusting may not understand the direct need, but here you see, and on the subject of these developments in Montenegro, how sensitive these religious issues are. When we have smart people in power who will understand and warn such things, and on the other hand to show example, because whenever you show an example of sensitivity to diversity, then you realize that you can seek for your people and your ethnicity what is their right. In addition, I would also draw attention to citizens' suggestions and something that the public is quite familiar with. In recent months, we have somehow increased violence in New Pazar, even increasing the number of murders in certain catering facilities. I'd ask, and I'd ask the government, what will we do, what will the government do? Of course, we are also prepared as MPs and with other structures to engage, fully aware that the phenomena of violence are not the ones that can be solved by some act or by one political decision. I think these are the things that draw our attention that we need to attach importance to such phenomena. True, it's troublesome catering facilities after midnight, alcohol and other vice atmospheres they have there, but this is something we couldn't just go through. True, at the beginning of this term, I have proposed to the government and the Assembly the establishment of a national council to fight violence. I don't think this in Novi Pazar should just be the only topic, because we violence, as you know, we have in occasional escalation, in various structures, from underage, through school, to family and so on. We have certain potentials dealing with this, but I think we're short of coordination. Actually, my question would be - what are the government's thoughts in this regard?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70383	I thank Word has a president, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70384	I'm just going to add one thing short, as far as violence is concerned, and the working body, or whatever you want, some coordination body that would deal with violence. We, as Government, have created a task force to combat violence in schools and I am the president of the Working Group. We had a meeting. We've made some concrete plan of action that we're going to take over the next few weeks. In the next ten days, I will call another meeting of the Working Group, but it deals only with domestic violence. So the MUP really does its job well and has serious results in the fight against organised crime, corruption and violence. Whatever perception it is, these numbers are smaller today than they've ever been before, so I don't think there's any need for another working body. But I will ask Deputy Prime Minister Stefanovic to take another look at what you're talking about, and we can have a special meeting on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70385	Thank you. Muamer Zukorlic, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70386	My suggestion was not about another working body, but about the establishment of one body that would coordinate all these structures. I think that, although the MUP and the other levers that service it give their maximum and definitely we have certain indicators and positive trends and shifts in certain spaces, such as, say, certain bodies that are focused on certain segments of violence also, I'm sure, give their maximum. But what I think is missing is this broad front that would unite existing bodies and organs, but also what might be caused by violence. I think that's where we miss, say, the coordination of education, the relationship of the media, the relation of simply all social potentials, not just the state authorities. Because, surely, you will agree with me that the issue of violence only through the levers of the authorities and through the levers of the state authorities, especially the police, the judiciary and the prosecution are actually solving violence only through some kind of consequence. However, what we can certainly agree on, so to a significant extent, is that we have certain gaps in society-wide relations with violence, educational dimensions, educational dimensions, media perceptions. So, I think we lack concentration, energy and expansion of this very front where we would create a kind of harmony and a kind of symbiosis, a stronger corporateity in terms of both perceptions and educational and overall and other psychological ones that actually reflect, above all, on young people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70387	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70388	Thank you, President. Dear Presidents, the honourable Prime Minister, the honourable ministers, the honourable MPs, the first part of my parliamentary question will refer to the defence ministry. In recent years, the republican government has drawn up and placed the accent on Serbia's Army's equipment and weapons, has increased the security of the state, its citizens and the battle effort. What is important to me as a socialist, as a leftist and what is, above all, important to me as a member of the Socialist Movement is that we have invested in improving the working conditions of members of the military, which has improved their social status, but we have witnessed that media attacks have been happening for various reasons in recent months. They are common, fierce, orchestrated from the same centers of power. I'm talking about Krusik right now, I'm talking about "Milan Blagojevic" from Luciana, about the dedicated industry in general. The campaign is really terrible and I would ask you as a government to draw a line, to tell us what the Serbian Army looked like in 2011, 2012, when Djilas, Jeremic, Ponos etc., Marinika Tepic was in power, and what does it look like today, so that Serbian citizens can hear why these attacks really exist and what is their main goal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70389	Thank you. The word is Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70390	I appreciate the question. I can be someone who witnessed in 2012, July 27th, 2012, when Alexander Vukic came to the head of the Ministry of Defense. Then one of the things that we wanted to see primarily is to analyze the situation in which our dedicated industry is located. The situation in which it was, here, in short lines, was such that none of them were positive, they were all in great downs and debt. The plants that have been destroyed since NATO bombing and NATO aggression have not been restored. There were big problems, too, when it came to paying the salary. These are all the problems that have certainly been and have in some way put pressure on our defence industry. There were great demands from our ministry and Serbia's military to equip the Serbian Army. Unfortunately, the capacities they had could not on the one hand enable to be exported and that this seemed to be some revenue, and on the other hand, and what was the basis for the existence of the dedicated industry, which is the equipment of the Serbian Army, could not have been at some high level. Also, what was evident is that in some factories it was also an outdated technology, so that the Serbian Army that had the equipment requirements, in terms of high technology, simply couldn't expect them to do so. Then a plan was put in place to work on our president's personal engagement, then as defence minister, we headed for a reorganization of the dedicated industry. It has led to the production of high technology in our dedicated industry today, and some equipment that is at the level of world producers that are the world's most innovative and high-quality market, that there is a great demand for their tools and weapons produced by us, that some brands that were formerly and well-known have managed to preserve today's "First Partizan" that manufactures ammunition and how it is recognized and sought on the world market. What is most important is that for the first time since 1980, for the first time in 2016, we have invested 50m euros as the Government of the Republic of Serbia in our dedicated industry. As far as I know, it continued with this investment practice in our dedicated industry, because we recognized that on the one hand it was guarding our army, allowing everything that was needed by our military at some point, and God forbid any circumstance would certainly not be found on the international market. She can provide everything she needs on one side. On the other hand, every day, here in the last few years it has been seen that each of these dedicated industries is getting new technology and is mastering some new technologies. You saw yesterday that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a factory that is currently working for us, and that is something that we want to connect the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and in this way, because I think, in essence, what matters to us is on one side of security, and the guarantee of that security is our army. If she's well equipped, then so are all of us, and I'm safer. What I can say is, it is certain that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and here is the Prime Minister, can confirm to you that we are and that we want to invest in our army and continue to finance everything, because it is on sound grounds. The last thing, when it comes to export permits and all that's in place, now in some way they want to defile our army, is just a desire for our army and our state to weaken. That's what some want. Unfortunately, there are some people in the opposition like Dragan Gilas and the people around him, who do not stop at it and whose sole goal would be to come to power, even if at the cost of defileing our army and pushing it into some mud. The desire is to show through that too that we export weapons to some suspicious markets, to do things like we shouldn't, they have absolutely no basis. What we can be proud of and what citizens of Serbia need to know today is that we should be proud of how and how the Republic of Serbia works when the production and transport of arms and military equipment is. It is at the very top of traffic control, an example of how some other countries can be proud, much ahead of some EU countries, and we will continue to work to ensure that arms exports are growing and that they go into the right hands and, of course, under the control of the UN and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70391	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70392	I'll try to be very brief again. I think that, all in all, and that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia see that the situation in our army is incomparable, so only in 2011 and today. So our army was out of breath and it's kind of, I think, unfortunately, planically destroyed. Today, only if you look at how many planes we have, I'm not wrong, we have 11 Migg 29 at this point flying, 14, how many planes we have today, how many helicopters we have. We only ordered nine newest Er-bas helicopters, some of which have already been delivered. That our dedicated industry not only has really significant exports today, but that today our dedicated industry is so respected that it can talk to world companies, such as Er-bas, about co-operation. So that's one serious credibility. That today we have much higher salaries in the military, that today we also care for the families of our soldiers by building apartments for the security services, which they also claimed to be a mirage and that they would never be built. We'll move the first families into the Vranj building in early April. We started to build in all the other local self-governments we planned, except for Belgrade, where the plan was extended because there were a few more apartments in the first phase than planned, so we planned with them both school and kindergarten, which is why it had to change the urban plan. But I guess we leave in April at the latest with a rock foundation for the first 1,000 apartments for security services in Belgrade. To equipment, to wages, uniforms, much more security, all in all, and conditions. And we're all, of course, proud of it. But also, I don't think there's any other country, nor do I know of that country, that the opposition is attacking the dedicated industry of a country, that it's attacking an army of its own country and military industry. I've never heard that before. So there are some things in normal countries, with normal people, are not a matter of political struggle. It's a matter of extraordinary national interest. The dedicated industry, the military doesn't attack. Unfortunately, one part of the opposition here does not recognise in any national interest, from the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, to the dedicated industry and the Army of the Republic of Serbia. I expect and hope that the citizens will recognize it and that they will assess it and assess it in the elections and they know it and that is why they boycott the elections. But when you have that kind of opposition, that kind of opposition, you know why they say that democracy needs a strong opposition? Because she is not only a corrective factor, but because you have a strong opposition that draws attention to things that you may not do well enough, you don't work fast enough or you can do them differently, in the interest of the citizens. Unfortunately, we do not, to the greatest extent possible, have that kind of opposition, although we do have, I must say, serious and constructive political parties and opposition, who pay that seriousness and constructiveity by telling them that the Trojan horses and people who actually work for Alexander Vukic, but well, let's put that aside. But since we don't have that kind of opposition, then we ourselves have to be extra motivated to define ourselves and those things that maybe we don't do very well. And there are, of course, things like that. I'm going to tell you one thing that we haven't finished, as far as the military is concerned, which we have to finish, which is that systems like, "E-baby," reports to newborns in maternity care, completely free of charge, in 10 minutes, without any paper or "E-recept," that chronic patients don't go to doctors every three weeks to prescribe the same medications they've been taking for two or three years. We still haven't introduced military officials to protect personal data, due to the sensitivity of data in our army. We need to change some more laws here and we need to secure it as soon as possible and military bonds. Now, if we had a serious opposition, they'd be criticizing us for these things. They'd say -- people, can you understand that you still don't have an "E-baby" or an "E-recept" for military and military taxpayers, that's a shame, that's not the way to do it. It's all true. We have to do this faster. We started it. We're not done, we have to finish. Here, I'll tell you the whole truth. There are some things that we would have to do faster, but instead, because they hate to see, in fact, things and things that really concern the lives of citizens, the quality of their lives, their standards, and then they attack the dedicated industry and talk nonsense, they invent affairs that can and harm truly national interests, the essential interests of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70393	The word has an Ana Karadzic, an additional question, if you like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70394	I thank you very much for your answers. First of all, all you have stated is that what is invested in the military is that it is possible to run a policy of military neutrality, which is one of the key interests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to military neutrality policy, what I also find important is demographics and incentives, so my next block of parliamentary issues, let me say, refers to exactly that. First of all, I would like to commend the fact that 740 million dinars were invested from 2017 to 2019 in preschool institutions, kindergartens, both in adaptation and in preschool construction. So the capacity is expanding. Soon, as I understand it, it will be mandatory for children of three years to attend the preschool program. What I'm interested in about this is when will teachers who are employed at preschool institutions be able to get permanent contracts, not just because of their personal benefits, to say, vacations, etc., but because they are not able to go to all the training they need? Older educators, who are retired, go to those training courses, and I really don't think it's going to be effective in a few years when they actually retire and young educators continue to work without education, to say the least. The second question I would also ask you, Mrs Brnabic, is about population policy. 1.2 billion dinars were invested annually. When will the sum of the second and fifth children you spoke of increase? The third question is about young couples. First of all, I would like to commend subsidies for rural environments, subsidies that you have provided to the machinery owners, equipment, and thus encourage them to stay in villages, about 161 billion dinars. Accordingly, my question is, as far as cities and building apartments for young couples are concerned, when we talk about subsidized apartments, President Vukic spoke of about 500m euros being invested. I wonder when these apartments are planned for construction and what would be about the price of squares that young couples should pay? Just one more question. Since you opened a tech park in Novi Sad yesterday, good for you. The president also said more funds would be invested. Do you know exactly what the plan is and where these technology parks will be opened in the future and what else will be invested in the digitisation that you have implemented very effectively so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70395	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70396	Thank you. I'll just say a few words about the most intelligent policy, so I'll leave both Minister Djurdjevic and Minister Djukic Dejanovic to supplement with more concrete information. I'll tell you some good news. This year, in 2019, we finally had a positive natural growth in Serbia. So more born than dead and 614 more children born than in 2018. That's what we're in, I think, the only one in the region. So, great gratitude to everyone who's worked with us on this, and I don't think that's important just for... It may not matter, and I think the most important thing about our Natalie and the future of Serbia, but it also points to a really significant greater trust in our citizens in the future of this country, that they will have security, that they will have prosperity, that they can create families and we have invested a lot in it. As you said, we have set aside an additional 700m euros in the "Serbia 2025" plan for the most promising policy, two hundred million euros for out-of-body fertilisation, investment in children's programmes, etc. We're going to do something, of course, and with the amendments to the Financial Support Act to families with children and to correct some of the things they've pointed out to us and that we agree with. We also planned 500 million for apartments for young couples. At this point we are working on a plan to build apartments, namely how we will define criteria, what young couples are, in which the best possible way we can define these criteria to really hit the target audience we want and support young people in the Republic of Serbia. I'm glad to say again that the government doesn't do it alone. We're doing this today with the support of the Serbian Youth Organisation, COMS, and we'll see... I certainly hope to get a report on how it's going in the next few days. I had one meeting with them in Novi Sad, with the Serbian Youth's Roof and we talked about this, and I asked them to sit with us and help us, then it will go to the government, the Resolute Ministry to assess and adopt that plan, and then to program further funds and local self-government, which will be all under that plan. As far as scientific and technological parks are concerned, and that is also one of the indicators, it seems to me, the responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority and all of you here who have given us support. Serbia did not have a single science and technology park until 2014. In 2015, the first scientific and technological park opened in the Republic of Serbia, opened by Aleksandar Vukic, then prime minister, and it was Belgrade's science and technology park. We opened the first phase of Novi Sad Science and Technology Park yesterday, but by the end of this government's mandate, we will have four scientific and technological parks in Serbia – Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Cačak. We'll have a whole network of app centres all over Serbia. I said yesterday, I'll repeat today, it's a new spine, a spinal column of development for the different future of Serbia. When compared to the region, Slovenia is the only country with one scientific and technological park in Ljubljana. So, we run faster than the region, we see much further, and I think that this one in the mandate of this next government, whoever is in it, that it will return to us multiple times, and that the impact on our economy, not remaining young people in Serbia, on the return of young people to our country, will be more than obvious. So thank you for that support. I'll tell you one more thing. For all those who say they're educated, that they're elite, that they're cultural, you know, by 2015 school wasn't connected to the Internet, our schools didn't have internet. All our schools today are connected to the Internet and by September this year 1,000 schools will have a fast wireless internet, from some 1,000 and a half schools. We have 10,000 digital classrooms today. We have programming, like a mandatory class in schools. At that time, parents prayed for programming to be a mandatory subject in elementary schools. She was the government for the government until 2014 who didn't know how to solve it or she didn't care how to solve it. So, we have fulfilled the promise we made, which is that the mandate of this government, which is the government of continuity with the one of 2014, but also the one that Alexander Vukic took in 2016, is to continue to be fiscally disciplined, to keep our macroeconomic stability and to continue to build Serbia, to reduce unemployment, but at the same time it is a great task of this government to move towards transforming our economy, our society to be much more competitive in the future, so that our economy is based on innovation, science, research and development. I am proud to say that we have fulfilled that promise. We've done everything we've plotted. In that sense, it was challenging, but I believe that everyone sees it, indeed, that all well-intentioned, honest people in the Republic of Serbia see it and that is how we will continue. Now I'm asking the ministers to say a little more about the most intelligent policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70397	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70398	Thank you. Certainly, in addition to economic reforms and our successes in the economy, the issue of economic migration and the issue of population policy are one of the most important issues that this government is dealing with, which is certainly and will be a priority in some future period. You've heard that every time our president speaks to the public, one of the things that is a matter of demographicism, and we've certainly worked hard on it in the previous period and we've witnessed that, let's say, those who are critics of what we're doing today are at their own time, while they've been, as they say, their golden time, giving birth to 26 billion. Today we have not doubled that amount, but it is moving for this year at projected 68 billion. So, from year to year, in line with economic possibilities, this separation to improve our demographic image certainly increases. This is very difficult and responsible and, since you are moving in some restrictive financial means, it is very important that you carefully measure which direction you should go to have effects. How successful we were is what our Prime Minister said that for the first time this year, that is, last year we ended up with 614 children more. I watched that statistics and all the countries in the environment, and Romania, and Bulgaria, and Hungary, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Montenegro, and Albania, and Northern Macedonia, ended up with a negative number of children. Only Serbia has a positive score, and of course it must not encourage us on a short deadline, but we should continue to work on it. We were pleased by the fact that the president during the presentation "Serbia 2025", when he talked about demographics, population policy, he just said that it would be and how it will be recognized with these 700 million and a lot of these pairs is just separated for the population policy in terms of incentives for birth, i.e. parental supplement, child supplement and all the other things that we are now giving and which we want to improve right now. In that sense, we have stopped with what we had before, because the previous analysis has moved in limited financial resources that were far less about this and now the careful Ministry of Slavica Djukic Dejanović and the Ministry of Labour are working to first introduce the Prime Minister to what it would look like and how and how we should focus our population policy until 2025, and then, if we reach some consensus, of course, to go out to other ministries and to change the Law on financial support for the family with children and to come here to the Assembly. We are also doing this in collaboration with NGOs because it is very important for us to hear another opinion and to see that these measures that are, reach some general consensus in society, to know how much we stand out, and in some ways to decide together how and in what direction that amount will go, and our greatest desire is that this trend that we now have, which someone will say small, 614, but it is also great for us, given that we are the only country that is positive recently, is getting bigger from year to year. I am sure that we will succeed, because we are all, in some way, directed towards achieving that goal, and I am deeply convinced that years ahead of us, and this year will certainly be better in that sense, and that we will quickly enter into the congregation procedure with the amendment and addition of the Law on Financial Support to the family with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70399	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70400	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I would just like to say a few words first of all for the public, and also to refer to your question about encouraging young people in rural areas and the way beyond how young people can stay and live in rural areas, which I think is very important. Look at eastern Serbia and southern Serbia, a vast space where very few people otherwise live, and even fewer young people are present there. Several years ago, in 2017, the government of the Republic of Serbia began to apply one measure, which is to support beginners, young people in agriculture, up to 40 years old. This is not any warm water invention, this is one of the instruments in which in European agricultural policy, many countries are used, but for us it is necessary for one simple reason because in this way we help with grenades, young farmers to start their agricultural production. Not that they invest first, so they wait for it, but this way in advance for people to win. We started with financial support from, when it was translated into euro, to 10,000 euros, a million and 200,000 dinars and the first competition that took place in 2017, about 780 young farmers applied. Out of 780 young farmers, the rule of law exists, we especially apostrophe of employment in livestock, vegetables and fruit growing precisely because of these areas which are uninhabited, where small parcels, depleted parcels, mountain areas where it is much easier to achieve this agricultural production, and on the other hand, it is very important that they be those branches of agriculture where it is necessary to engage young people. It is not the same when in these sectors agricultural production is engaged persons 25 and 30 years old or when you have persons of 60 years of age. Productivity is much less, you'll agree. Can't a man at 60, 65, 70 achieve the same results in fruit growing and vegetables where naked physical labour is sought, where much greater engagement is required. It's natural for you to insist on it then. Of these first, incomplete 800 applications, 667 people were entitled to this incentive, paid off and those persons still had an obligation to invest another 25% over the next two years. I can tell you that based on the controls we've carried out, a large number of faces have managed to implement their business plan, but we've also had 15% of the people in the controls that haven't been able to do it. But I would have taken it under the classic of that entrepreneurial spirit. You can't expect that when someone wants a self-initiative to have, when they want to deal with some corporate business, to make all 10 projects successful. If there are three successes that justify the meaning of the whole story, some three will continue to live, start to make much greater values and thus generate much more money in the whole story and for those who go last. The second measure, which was in 2018, about 1,300 applications were on the same terms, 1,160 received money. Only now was there more money, not 10,000 euros, but 12.5,000 euros. This year, and to conclude, I'm sorry, last 2019, we had this amazing thing. Five and a half thousand young people have applied for this measure. The contest is over on January 7th, of course this will put the government on new torments, much more financial resources, than anyone planned would be necessary for that, but there is the finance minister, I hope he follows this exposure and he will understand that. Of course, joke aside, but it's very important that a lot of young people at this point are ready to enter agricultural production, of course with strict control measures. For one simple reason, to avoid abuse. We've had controls that we've conducted in different sectors and the raising of multi-year plantings of the irrigation system, and there are certain individuals who are trying to abuse the entire system. It will always be, but we have to narrow it down to the least possible. This is one of the tools, this measure of support for young agricultural producers, one of the tools of the entire spectrum of measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia through its co-ordination body, through Prof. Dejanovic, who runs the whole story, and I think it's very important that everyone from his corner make a maximum contribution. This isn't the end. In the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, two more measures can be taken into account in the coming period, but it is necessary to amend the Agricultural Land Act and the Agricultural Incentives Act. It is that women, who are members of agricultural land, are given much greater rights for them to stay in the country, because it still revolves in rural households around women. If they're not there, there can hardly be stories about starting a family and there can hardly be stories about any kind of development. On the other hand, there is a certain amount of agricultural land, above all I think about pastures, the mornings that we have to throw into the system and which can be offered under extremely favourable conditions for a much larger and longer period of time at favourable prices for young farmers so that they can make one more quality way, make their agricultural production and make more profit. These are the measures that stand before us. We're going from the corner as much as we can help this. The fact that there is a depopulation in the world from rural areas, that everything is moving towards cities, but there are other tools at our disposal. First of all, we will be up to date, co-worker Joksimovic will agree, and this IPARD 3 measure, we have proposed to the European Commission for this future programme, a special support measure where the EU will give 75% of the money to young agricultural producers and our country 25%. That's the IPARD 2 measure we didn't have. I think it's very important that the more resources we use. In front of you today, I suppose, during the debate under the amendments when the proposal for an agreement was made between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the World Bank, as regards a programme to support the competitiveness of agricultural production, and there is one tool to support young agricultural producers, especially with an emphasis on eastern Serbia, southern Serbia where there are tens of kilometers, for example, between Soko Banja and Književec where 40, 50km almost no one can even see. I think it's very important that we use these tools as far as we can, it's time for us to realize it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70401	Thank you. Do you have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70402	Thank you. I'd just like to repeat one more question, I know you can't answer right now, but if you're in a position to be in care of teachers, will they be transferred at some point, will they get a contract permanently? I just want to say that the Socialist Movement parliamentary group will continue to support the government of the Republic of Serbia and everything you do. I didn't point out as a question, but certainly as a commendation of the budget that is set aside for social contributions. From what I understand, about 100,000 people, financial aid for about 100,000 people and about 400,000 children living in poverty receive a child's allowance. So, these separations are commendable. The Socialist movement is a leftist party, we really advocate all those who need help most for every man's rights. We may not be a big party, but we are very persistent, consistent and faithful to the citizens of Serbia. I don't want to wish us luck with the upcoming elections, because the work you've done is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70403	Thank you. The word is Balin Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70404	I'd have a question for the Prime Minister about illegal migration. On several occasions, I was already talking about the issue in the RS, as it is extremely important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially for the locals of those settlements affected by the migrant crisis. It's exactly four and a half years since the first time I've talked about this topic in the National Assembly, and I'd like to repeat some questions. Why don't the Republic of Serbia, the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, guard the southern border of the Republic of Serbia, so that these people don't enter our country without documents? The second question is – why are illegal migrants not subject to the laws of the Republic of Serbia? Why is it possible that these people so-called. The illegal migrants rob houses, not just empty houses, but those houses where people live? I would mention several settlements, Majdan, Rabe, Banatsko Arangelovo in the municipality of Novi Knezevic in the north of Banata, Horgos, Martonosh and Kanjiž, in the municipality of Kanjiž in Backo? These people simply from these migrants, they can't live for years. I appeal to the greater presence of the police and I must confess to you, Mrs Brnabic, that I contacted Minister Stefanovic yesterday and asked him to be more present in these settlements and to protect our population, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to this, the police are present in Majdan and Rabe and some other settlements today and are doing the job that needs to be done. So I commend the work of the police, the work of the MUP regarding Majdan and Rabe in the last 24 hours, and I appeal to the greater presence of police and that all the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia are doing everything in the interest of guaranteeing the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These people are illegal migrants, they just need to be looked at, most of them don't run away from the war, they're economic migrants who want to come across us to Western Europe, but we can't let them threaten the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70405	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70406	Thank you. So, when Serbia was most affected by the migration wave in 2015, 2016, I think that indeed somehow the united forces of the military and police have shown how Serbia can defend itself on the other hand, as it can humanly respond to these challenges. I think we have been a stable and predictable partner, not only to all our neighbouring countries, but to the entire EU. You know that our specific problem, and not only Serbia, but all the countries of the Western Balkans, is that migrants come to us from EU countries, to move on to other EU countries. So the first line of defence is still the EU, which is why we signed the Agreement on Co-operation with Frontex. So, to protect our borders not only at our borders, but to go all together, to keep them at EU borders together, to have the highest number of neighbouring countries of the common border patrols and to prevent us from, if I am not mistaken, over 50,000 illegal entry into Serbia, and to collect in the best possible way the data and information on people who entered legally and shared it with our partners from the EU to see together what to do with these people. We then had one co-ordination body within the government of the Republic of Serbia that followed the whole situation. We will reactivate that coordinating body to monitor all the new developments that we have witnessed in the last few days and make our citizens feel completely safe and completely safe. Finally, to raise maximum possible coordination between all our security services and our partners from the EU, as well as other countries in the environment. So that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia will take. I believe and I'm sure we'll be able to respond to this wave as well. After all, today we are much more prepared than was the case in 2015 when no one knew that such a crisis would be tested, or that so many migrants would go on this route which, thanks to our effective reaction, before the world of our security forces, closed and then they found another route across Montenegro and BiH. So the government will reactivate the coordination body. I'm glad you heard from Minister Stefanovic, and certainly, you know that they will always respond resiliently to any application of possible escalation for our citizens. At this point, there's really no reason to worry, no reason to panic, and we're going to react in time anyway. We will also continue to appeal to Brussels that there is some common European policy for migrants. After all, because it is not fair for everyone to manage for themselves, I say again, because we are neither a country nor a destination, as you said, nor what is the ultimate destination of these people and because we are practically surrounded by a part of the EU, where migrants come from. Or, if they come from northern Macedonia, again they come from the EU because Northern Macedonia is bordering with the EU in that sense. So we're going to see that we're talking to both them and Frontex as much as possible and we're going to find the most effective way to solve any new situation. I'm sorry, I owe you an answer about preschoolers, it's a very important thing and it's not just about permanent employment, which is a big topic. It seems to me that we've worked a lot with pre-school institutions and unions that gather employees in pre-school institutions and local self-government and with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Ministry of Education and my cabinet to improve the conditions for working in pre-school institutions. I'm only talking about preschool employees, and that's crucial. If I could somehow advise the future government of the Republic of Serbia from this angle, I'd say they've done a lot for primary schools now, we've done a lot for high schools. We started big things in high school, respecting autonomy, but the next government needs to deal seriously with preschool institutions, because, according to all the research you see today, everything you invest in preschool institutions goes back through later economic growth and development of young people, family life, happiness and personal achievement. So what we've been having a lot of trouble dealing with, what we've managed to solve is this problem of financial unsustainability to raise wages in some local self-government for pre-school institutions. So, every time we increased the wages in education, we increased the salaries and preschoolers. Some local self-governments could have sent it away, some could not have been washed because wages were paid out of the local self-government budget. Then we had one big action to bring our salaries together, because it's not fair for someone in the Priboj kindergarten to pay differently and pay differently in Novi Varosha or Belgrade or Novi Sad. We did this, and we agreed to it, even during 2019, we, in a somewhat extraordinary way, transferred from the Republic's budget to the budgets of local self-government, so that they could raise their salaries where they failed, and now we've evened it out. Another big problem is that we also have a really long series of decades, which is that we have both in education and somewhat in health care that we have people who are a few years or a long number of years for a certain time. These people contract for good, sometimes it means a lot more than pay increases, because it means safety to them, their families, taking credit, solving housing issues, etc. And that's what we're serious about right now. We have practically abolished education and health care, we are not formally legal, but we have lifted the employment ban on the commission, so that for everything needed in education and in health care, immediate approvals for new employment are going. The Ministry of State and Local Self-Government sent a letter to local self-government that for pre-school institutions everyone who has long been assigned to translate them, to give them permanent contracts, and we have, and the Employment Commission has given consent to 1,900 contracts for permanent in pre-school institutions and we will continue to do so. You have seen probably that the Ministry of Education, Minister Sarcevic is not here today, he is in Tokyo, we will be one of only five or six countries of the world that is signing a co-operation agreement with Japan in the field of education, which also speaks enough about our credibility and reforms that we have carried out in the last five or six years, but in education we announced a contest for 5,000 people who have been on a fixed time to transfer for good time. Our goal is for all people who are longer than a year on a certain time to be transferred permanently. And, you know what, for our budget it's a neutral effect, it's okay for us, so we don't have those salaries, we give, so we give, these people are extra security. I am, as Prime Minister, clear instructions to the Minister of Education that we have to finish this. I also talked to Minister Loncar about ending this in health care, and that these people, besides having higher salaries today, are much higher than before fiscal consolidation, and in health care, even around 43% higher. So what he's receiving today as a nurse, as a salary, in 2012, was paid by a doctor. That's how much it's changed. When we're done and they'll have security, we'll continue to raise the salary, but it's completely different conditions in which they'll work. As far as preschoolers are concerned, the first 1,900 already have consent, we continue to introduce order in this sector as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70407	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70408	I thank the Prime Minister for the response, and I am aware that Serbia neither has caused a migrant crisis nor can solve the migrant crisis itself and that my appeal does not apply at all. My appeal refers exclusively to the protection of our local population, because I only want to present a few data. There are currently 300 migrants in Horgos, illegal migrants in the populated town of Horgos. These people in Horgos can't live on them, they can't let their kids on the street. These citizens, illegal migrants, these people, don't respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia at all. They don't respect the laws because they're not forced to, they don't respect the laws because none of them are legitimate. My question concerns this – why do these people not legislate, as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are legitimately legitimate and what is the result of the Law on Public Order and Peace of the Republic of Serbia if someone does not carry personal documents with them, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or is a foreign citizen, any other country. The second question is, how can these people and legal migrants bring buses to these villages? For example, for the inhabited town of Majdan and Rabe, there are no regular bus lines, there are no. If it's some kind of special transport, there should be a passport. It is known what the obligations of companies dealing with the transportation of faces are. The police are punishing everyone who doesn't have a passenger list, so my appeal would refer exclusively to these questions. I say once again, the police responded decisively today and yesterday in the municipality of Novi Knezevec. I would like it to be a practice in the future and to expand it to the Kanjiz municipality. I know the MUP is facing huge problems because of the lack of people, but I appeal to everyone to protect our locals. For example, Majdan and Rabe are settlements with a total of 170 inhabitants, these are nursing households, migrants, illegal migrants entering these houses, these people are terrified, they can't just live normally, and I urge you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does everything in the interest of protecting our people. We are as we have been, partners in all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70409	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70410	I'd just like to call you at the beginning of next week, and I'll schedule a meeting, and I'll restart our co-ordination group within the government, to hear from you, come to that meeting, sit together, talk, and see that, anyway, in those places that you've listed, we'll solve all the problems that exist, but from now on, in the coming weeks and months, we'll warn any possible problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70411	Here you go, commentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70412	I thank you, Prime Minister. I'll certainly be very happy to respond to that call. We are here, we have a job together, a task to protect our local population, because many times in the Republic of Serbia talk about being human and need to understand these illegal migrants. It's easy to be human in areas not affected by the presence of illegal migrants. We simply need to understand those people who can't live normally, they couldn't live normally in 2015, so we've sort of solved these problems together, and now these problems are being repeated. We all know, and you know that a larger group of illegal migrants tried to get into Hungary the day before yesterday, they took down the fence. If they behave like this next to the border crossing where the police and the army of another sovereign state are present, how then in the nursing households on our side of the border in the Republic of Serbia, people can feel and therefore thank you very much for saying that this task force will be re-activated. I think it is extremely important for our citizens to see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is important that their problems be solved, as well as in the economy, as well as in agriculture, as in other topics, and I think that security is first. Indeed, I believe it is our common task to guarantee the safety of our citizens and once again offer a partnership for this on behalf of the SVM. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70413	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70414	Mrs. Brnabic, we met here a little more than a month ago and talked and there were more topics, but the key issue was the central issue of the situation in Montenegro, and then it escalated exactly where I had objections to the behaviour of our own, or to the reaction of our government. You've been insinuating a lot, Malten, as if someone were calling for violence, mentioning some tanks, all sorts of things, but you've said some things that sound reasonable. You said, we need to be smart, we need to be thought out, and we need to deal with this problem in dialogue with the government of Montenegro, because it's now an independent state, and then you've alluded to who's guilty, which is, etc. Here, it's been more than a month, it's been five weeks, Mrs. Brnabic, we've been smart and thoughtful, we haven't reacted hastily, even our foreign ministry missed an opportunity to react, so their foreign ministry has been protesting a relatively small incident outside the Embassy of Montenegro in Belgrade, therefore, which it is for a conviction, but it's not for such dramatic reactions. Their entire public was shaking because of those few fireworks, or I don't know what was fired in Prince Michael's front of the embassy. I mean, we've been reasonable, we haven't reacted, I'd say no more than we have to, and what's the effect of that? What have we achieved? What have you achieved? So, for dialogue, as well as for tango, it takes two. We have missed the opportunity to do something that every reasonable sovereign state can do, from the Security Council, which seems to be the largest measure, but here in this room Minister Vulin, however, said as his own opinion that he is even prepared and thinks that this should mean, from the alarming of the Security Council, through the OSCE, through the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We didn't actually do anything, maybe a bilateral someone was talking. Here, I ask you if you are like the Government, as Prime Minister and the President has announced that he will talk, but do we not know whether this conversation was, that we will solve this problem with dialogue? So far we have not seen any effects of this dialogue, but we have only seen arrogance, pride and escalation of arrogance, of the regime in Podgorica, and it has come from this scandalous law on alleged freedom of religion, and there have also been physical attacks on young people who have protested and defended their murales, or troboys, so as the worst criminals, they have been blown away by bombs, tear gas, there have been beatings. So this is my first question – is it intended and what is intended to be done from what is a reasonable diplomatic measure or a leprosy of possible measures? Second thing, but I'm afraid there won't be other things, so answer one, and then I'll ask the second question in the next round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70415	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70416	So again like so many times in our debates, as I mentioned earlier about the manner of one part of the opposition, I don't hear any proposals, constructive criticisms, here, I would do this or I would do what I would or should have done this, no causal consequence. When we call or ask for a UN Security Council session, which result do we expect? We expect him to call? We expect to get something. What do we get? Then what's the result? So, I told you last time, that parade for parade, that time in Serbia, I hope it's over because you have a responsible authority, responsible people who are not parading but are doing something, and when you parade without any clear vision of what we want to achieve and where and where it will lead Serbia and Serbia to this other problem, so I don't see that it really makes any sense. As we talked about last time, it seems to me that real and smart diplomacy when there's a lot more in contacts that aren't seen, but by parading something that won't bring any results, and you don't know what you'd expect from it yourself. Seems to me like we've won a lot. It seems to me that many under that law from abroad are much more restrained than we have paraded, that you would like it or how it used to be done and that you can say, here, now we have a problem between some of the two sides that are unreasonable. We have made it clear that we do not agree with this law, that it threatens the rights and freedoms of the Serbian people in Montenegro, but also that Montenegro is a sovereign state, whose sovereignty we respect and in whose sovereignty we do not want to interfere, but that we have the right and that we have the obligation to protect the Serbian people in Montenegro or wherever he lives. This opinion is being respected today, and I think that in that sense, that this rational response has led, among other things, to the fact that some other international forces and factors have been restrained by this and that each of our reckless moves could have served as an alibi to support this law, that's what I think. I would also like to hear from this House of People's MPs, if they don't agree with what the Government is doing, a proposal for what we could do differently, but a proposal for what we expect from it, because still, it's a responsibility to us when we do something like that, what do we expect, what result? I will end up with the fact that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all Serbs, not only in Montenegro, but in the whole region, should know that we are really actively dealing with this, but that our position is to respect the sovereignty of Montenegro, that we care about the best possible relations with Montenegro, but that, on the other hand, we will, we must, and that it is our obligation to protect the interest of the Serb people in Montenegro and that we will do everything, first of all, in a direct conversation with officials in Montenegro, which President Vukic is doing and doing, and what he has done, to try to reach a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70417	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70418	I've just drawn attention to the fact that, unfortunately, for the time being, the effects of this work of your silence are not or are not seen, and how much support these centres from the world, from abroad, from the law or Serbia, we'll see. So far, no one has condemned the law, even though it had to be condemned. I've only got a few minutes, so I've got to get to some other things. So, if you're really interested, I'd be happy to, and also here, in this House, say what I think and say what should be done. Will there be results? I don't know. We can see they're not here. So far, our countrymen down there, with SPC leadership, are really fighting great and they're doing great, but I think at least moral support from here would mean a lot to them. Wait a minute, you said in your statement that the military is not touching, the military is not attacking, the dedicated industry is not attacking, there are things that are not being questioned in one state of normal and serious. I agree with you in some ways, i.e. I very much agree with you, but I'm afraid you've had in mind stories about affairs and some scandals that broke out in public about the situation in our military, especially with regard to the dedicated industry. So no one attacks and no one destroys the dedicated industry or the military, at least I'm the last to do it, but it's about destroying the military, destroying the dedicated industry with strange jobs, strange businesses, where the producer, the state-owned producer, the state-owned trader, the SDPR and the state-run exporter, is at risk of losing and bad business, and the only thing that goes well is private intermediaries. I'm not talking about the relationship between these intermediaries with some relatives or close members of the family of some government presidents. That's the problem, Mrs. Brnabic. So, don't change the thesis. After all, in this affair it's only been said for a few months, so it didn't bring down our dedicated industry, nor would I destroy it by any intention or word, but I think that pointing to abuse has contributed, in fact, to security and to the dedicated industry. Since I only have one more minute, I would just ask you, since you are the Prime Minister, the government, or the state, owns the majority Telecom, has been making statements about this -- do you think the government might be more actively involved in this dispute, in this commercial one, but it's not just about trade and business, a dispute between United Group and Telecom about the possibility that all citizens of this country can watch all channels and all programmes? You won't write that agreement, I don't expect that, but I expect you to encourage the parties in the dispute, to find a solution in the interest of all the citizens of this country, without blackmail, without putting aside any of these two sides. People, when there is competition to expect citizens to profit from it, another lower prices and a better offer. We have a fight between the provider and the operator, and citizens don't have much better service on either side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70419	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70420	What you're saying is that you're proposing, and you don't know if there's gonna be any results. It's not that bad. It's terrible that, by my estimate, you don't even know what the result would mean. Let's look for a session of the UN Security Council on this matter. The result is what? What do we expect from that? We've been looking, and what do we expect? What happens after that? What's the consequence? What's the score? So, not if there's going to be results, but what's the result of which we're going to evaluate whether or not we had a result? I'm 100% sure you don't know what the result is we're expecting, but it's important to show that we're doing something. We don't know what the score is. We don't even know what we're trying to accomplish. Let's go somewhere and see if someone sees us doing something. You know what, we have a completely opposite logic. It doesn't matter to us that someone sees that we're doing something, but that we have a result, and it's important to you that someone thinks you're doing something, and we don't know what the result is. It's just that, that parade of it, here we go, we say, we ask, we write, nothing, no connection. We wrote no one answered us and so little by little stone per stone collapsed Serbia's reputation. You write one letter, write ten letters, write a hundred letters. The next time Serbia sends a letter, the letter no longer has any weight. Well, that's how it used to be done. Today, because we are thinking about what we do every turn of Serbia, every letter of Serbia, every phone call from the president of Serbia means something, has some weight. Instead of writing there as we get there to show that we're doing something, in fact we're not really doing anything, we're not planning anything, we're not expecting to have any results, we don't know what to expect, because it doesn't matter, everything at all. Today, thank God, for Serbia and all its citizens, it is a completely different policy. Diplomacy is being conducted the way it's being led by serious countries. It doesn't always have to be banging about fanfare and drilling into the chest, but it's important to give the result. Is there no result? Well, I wouldn't agree with you here either, because there's been a lack of reaction to that law so far. So, he still hasn't received the support of any international factors, any of their very close partners, to the less close, has not been welcomed by that law, even if I have seen it. Well, I guess that means something. Let's see it slowly. Again, the most important thing is that we will not interfere with Montenegro's sovereignty, as we would not like anyone to interfere with the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and our decision-making. But, too, not to be ashamed as we used to be ashamed of saying that Serbs live in Montenegro, as Serbs live in Macedonia, as Serbs live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as there is a Republika Srpska and the fact is, as Serbs live in Croatia and that we will defend their interests, that this is our right and our obligation. This is a much different policy than it was led until 2013 and 2014. A very, very different policy. As for the attack on the dedicated industry or on some of the general things that concern me, I think, even in my opinion, the national interests of the Republic of Serbia. Whether it's an affair or it's not an affair, whether someone does something that wasn't allowed or not, it's not up to you or me to say. I guess that's why there are institutions, I guess that's why we fight so hard for the rule of law. Let's not make any conclusions before the institutions do their job. There are some things used as attacks on the dedicated industry, even here this thing is directly used not as an attack on the dedicated industry but directly on the Army of the Republic of Serbia, which is Morovic. When someone from the opposition, one part of the opposition, one political group, I didn't talk about you and you didn't talk about me, so I'm telling you. So, I'm telling you, I don't say things in my head. When I say that the dedicated industry and the Army of the Republic of Serbia are being attacked, I did not say that you are attacking it, but that it is being attacked and that it is unacceptable in every normal country and in anyone who loves and respects his country. The "Morovic" military landlord's affair is an attack on the Republika Srpska Army. Not to the dedicated industry, not to any family of anyone in this government that they love so much to attack. This is an attack on the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Did we hear "excuse me"? Did we have one piece of evidence on that? Is tomorrow anyone entering from abroad "Morovic" or "Serbian Army" going to see that they are growing marijuana? Now, whether it's true or not, they'll see it. How many people are there who will never check it out, but will take it for granted that members of the Republic of Serbia's Army and the Republic of Serbia's Army and the Ministry of Defence are raising marijuana? Did we hear "I'm sorry, I was wrong"? No, I don't. I was joking the other day, that's really the first thing I thought of. A million cokes in there. I expected Mrs. Tepic to come out the next day and say, "It's true, there's no marijuana, but among those million chicks there are coke spies and coke carriers and the Army of the Republic of Serbia is making coke spies. These coke spies are specially trained to carry money to recognise Kosovo." That's the next step. It will be the next affair, where cokes carry money to withdraw recognition of Kosovo, since we have heard that we are paying for the recognition of Kosovo because these people have made a gesture of deepest respect for the Republic of Serbia by withdrawing recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, you know what they did? They're all corrupt. None of them are considering international law, the rule of law, international legal order, peace and stability. None of them respect the Republic of Serbia, according to efforts to have a dialogue with Pristina, since we have shown that we are a serious, honest partner. No, I don't. Mrs. Tepic said they're all corrupt, and we're corrupting them. The same one who said that there's marijuana in Moravic, 380 more nonsense, doesn't matter, but I repeat this because it's an attack, a direct attack on the Army of the Republic of Serbia, to say okay, it's not even a dedicated industry because God knows what, I don't know, peacemakers. Here, I'm telling you, it's not. It's all personal, personal interest, to bring down the dedicated industry of the Republic of Serbia, as it's been destroyed all these years, before they were in power, they were responsible for what it looked like, so it didn't exist, so now we've rebuilt it, so now they're tearing it apart with affairs. So is Morovic. So, look really for those chicks, I've seen that there are these, some countries have dolphins that are spies, we have coke, they're in Morovic, they're well hidden between chickens. Let them go and they fly like that, our coke and fly, yeah. Marinika Tepic will tell you. They fly like that and carry directly money there to countries that need to withdraw recognition from Kosovo. So, it's the next affair. The last topic - the dispute between United Group and Telecom. Here, dear People's MP, that's exactly what you're asking me, you who told me that in July when I was here, when I said that Telecom was giving a "N1" program, when you and "N1" said it wasn't true and that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia wasn't telling the truth, that we weren't saying that he was lying, that he didn't exist in Telecom's offer "N1". It doesn't exist, does it? I have a link to that news with "N1". You also said, and there was a little bit of a joke, a joke on Twitter -- the prime minister doesn't know whether Telecom has a "N1" or no "N1". So this "Telecom" that doesn't have "N1", you see, this Telecom today banned "N1". So, the one who does not have “N1, ” they today banned that “N1. ” I don't know how they banned him when they don't? Did we conclude seven months ago that I am not telling the truth and that Telecom does not have a "N1" in its program? How did they turn it off now? Can we do one thing or the other? I insist on this because this is an eclectic example of how certain media are reporting and how the truth in this Republic of Serbia is changing for certain people and the political group from day to day compared to how it suits them, without any explanation of why they then said one thing, and today they say the exact opposite, without any explanation, and it doesn't matter. At the time, it was not "N1" in "Telecom" offered, but today it has "Telecom" shut it down. Where did we come from when I wasn't telling the truth? Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia interfere with that? No, I don't. It's a commercial agreement between the two companies. They wouldn't interfere if it wasn't raised to the level of political campaigns, political campaigns, to repeat once again, concerning only whether there is freedom of the media in Serbia or if there is no freedom of the media, whether we are now shutting down that N1 lighthouse on that channel 38th by sight, so we have a very big interest in shutting it down. So when it became a topic of freedom of the media, and everyone knows it has nothing to do with the freedom of the media and everyone knows it has nothing to do with shutting down "N1" and everyone knows it has nothing to do with censorship, so when it started that it was censorship and freedom of the media, and then I got involved because it was then a political campaign and my duty and it was an obligation to react to everyone else, and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our partners, above all in the EU, clearly and aloud -- people, this has nothing to do with it. Telecom asked the United Group to continue broadcasting until it reached agreement on a new contract. The United Group did not allow the broadcast to continue. If I'm not mistaken, yesterday "Telecom" sent a letter, and they published it in our media, the United Group, that they formed their team and that they were immediately ready to resume their talks and reiterated the offer that during the talks they were practically only annexing the existing contract, so that they continued to see all channels until the moment the new contract was signed. Nothing easier, nothing simpler. It's just an annex to the contract. There is again "N1" on "Telecom", on the "Telecom" where you said "N1" did not exist, seven months ago, there is again no problem. Can I influence that? No, because it is not in my hands, it is not in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or "Telecoma of Serbia", or anyone else. This is just and exclusively in the hands of the United Group. When the United Group says -- we want to see "N1" again and all our channels, let's annex the contract, you have permission to continue broadcasting, all citizens will be able to watch that "N1" again on "Telecom", on which, as you said, it did not exist seven months ago, and then after seven months they shut it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70421	Thank you. The word has Gjorge Vukadinovic, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70422	It's easy for you to be effective and eloquent when you have all the time in the world. Mrs. Brnabic, you've now planted and replaced the thesis. Of course he couldn't see "N1" in the whole Telecom system and of course I was right and they were right. But in one part, with those operators that Telecom bought in the meantime, there they could see these United Group channels, "N1" and sports channels, meaning, which he bought in the context of this action of unification and togethering, which I have nothing against. That's where it could've been. That's what this is all about. Still largely, in most of the cable held by Telecom, these can't be seen. It doesn't matter much, but it shows how you use half the information, not to say anything up here. Just because you said it directly, it's again and unfair and rude, you said I don't even know what I'd want when it comes to the situation in Montenegro. I know very much what I would like, and most of those who protest the situation in Montenegro. I want the withdrawal of a controversial and scandalous law on freedom of religion. That's the goal. So that's the goal, the other thing is how it's going to be. But believe me, what has not yet been achieved, which is still playing the game, if I may say, is not the merit of your wise policy, of this government, of you, of the president, of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but of those who fight there, the Metropolitan Amphilochy, of the bishop, of the bishop, of the bishop, of the clergy, of the faithful people of the Serbian and Montenegrin Orthodox, who do not give homage. That it's our fault, i.e. By government, by the reactions of this state, they would long ago have applied and implemented that law, unfortunately for us. So don't give in to other people's feathers, but see if something can be done. So, without pouring oil on fire, but not cowardly, nor humiliating, as you do. So our demands are ignored. Our treatment at international conferences is very different from what you're talking about here and the media close to the authorities. So, it's exactly the opposite of that, Mrs. Brnabic, as it is mostly media... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70423	It's been a while. Thank you. Whoever passes the censorship in the next election will have a chance to change the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70424	The Honorable President of the Assembly, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, my fellow Members, I ask the President of the Assembly to place at least two seats from Vukadinovic in another distribution. I'll go back to the beginning of the answer between him and the prime minister. Comrade Vukadinovic, you've heard there's no big deal since that parade. You need to be specific. That's where I support the prime minister. Mr. Nedimovic, you have today set out a set of measures that the Ministry of Agriculture has already implemented. I congratulate you on that and commend you. But, of course, it's never likely enough good ideas. I can tell you two more suggestions, two proposals that have proved to be very good in practice. They were conducted in Jagodina. The Jagodina City Assembly has made two interesting decisions that you can think about, so that sometimes they can be here on the agenda. The first decision is to free agricultural producers from paying taxes on land, at least the farmland, even though it may be necessary to think about the part that is not processed, and it is located in areas where there are people who are good hosts, perhaps it should be more taxed. The second idea and the proposal that gave good results are subsidies for agricultural loans in terms of interest. So, the agricultural landlady returns the principal, and the city pays interest. Of course these programs can be different from land to land. I understand when you're doing some of the measures that are extensive and that treat a large number of agricultural holdings that simply have to be focused and narrowed down in a certain area. Realistically, if we look, without a strong and strong peasant and no children, each state loses its strength and at some point loses its meaning. Speaking of children, I will also ask Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. I'm interested, since it's already measures and suggestions, i.e. The specific laws adopted by our congregation, so these are the most intelligent measures, they are already being implemented. I want to ask you to give me an answer as to what the results are. For the Minister of Agriculture, here is for the finance minister who is here, of course, and for the prime minister, perhaps another proposal. There are about 600,000 registered tractors in Serbia. The average age of tractors has been with us for over 30 years. I had a chance to see what it looked like in the field. They spend more oil than they spend oil. It's hard to find parts for all those tractors. The Ministry of Agriculture gives 50% subsidy to buying tractors or all other connected machines. Personally, I find it difficult to finance a tractor that is the cheapest 15,000. The prices of these tractors go up to 50, 60. Mr. Risticevic knows how to move that price. There goes over 100,000 of those big tractors. The proposal is for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government to subsidise directly the tractor manufacturer, we have it in Serbia, like the formerly similar model of financing "Fiita". (President: I thank you. You've done a lot of time. I'll be done in 15 seconds. If we give the subsidy to the manufacturer, he will automatically be able to lower the price, so that everyone will be more available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70425	Thank you. The word is Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70426	Dear President, honourable MPs, I thank my colleague for these suggestions, and I will go one by one, to try, as far as possible, to elaborate. Let's start with these tractors. There are currently around 470,000 two-axial tractors in Serbia according to a test list that was made just over a year ago. It's official data from the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the facts are as follows. The maximum number of tractors, up to 86%, are up to 60 kilowatts. These are the small tractors that are mostly located under Sava and Danube and which are on small land and which are used for the processing of agricultural areas most often in the fields of fruit, vegetables, vineyarding, and also cannot be used larger tractors for a simple reason, because the plots are depleted. Seven percent of tractors, which are the latest, are mostly located in the Vojvodina area. The fact is that the average age of tractors in Serbia is 19 years. It is necessary, for this reason, to make agricultural production cheaper, to have measures concerning the supply of tractors. The government of the Republic of Serbia has issued an invitation since 6 January to subsidise tractors that are being concluded in Serbia. Why the tractors that come together in Serbia? For one simple reason, because it directly affects our Serbian GDP, it does not register as a minus if we import it, but it is concluded in Serbia and has a direct positive impact on the strengthening of Serbia's GDP. Such companies that make tractors in Serbia have five or six. It is mainly about the following companies, which is the IMT located in Jarkovac, which produces tractors 539 and 549. These are mostly tractors priced from 8,000 to 20,000 euros. These are tractors that enter the 60 kilowatt group and are the most dominant in Serbia's space. We also have in Novi Sad as part of the Agropanka tractors "Belaruse" and "Mañera" which are assembled there. In Bolvac we have tractors "Solis". We have another Chinese company that makes tractors in Serbia's space and can be subjected to that classification that they are manufactured in Serbia. At the cost of a 15,000-euro tractor, the states give 800,000 dinars, 7,000 euros to help. So let's go like that. When you buy a tractor per invoice, you compete and get it back. There is one more thing that can be used, and it relates to this second question, that is, the second proposal that you had, which concerns subsidized interest rates. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been subsidising interest rates for agricultural loans for several years through business banks, depending on the competition. They are 1%, interest rates, so they drop them from 7.8% to 1%, the difference in government wages, if it's a population less than 40 years old or women who own land. In the case of the rest of the population, other agricultural producers, the interest rate was 3 % subsidized. There's a due date for three and five years. Let's translate it into tractors. There is a possibility that if you take a subsidized loan from the state, buy a tractor at an interest rate of 3% on a five-year maturity, where you don't have to mortgage, but a pledge to be that tractor because the depreciation period is five years and you automatically use that measure and you're asking for 50% back from the state. So you combine both. You don't have to give money in advance, but that tractor you're buying is the supply. This can be done for other agricultural machines. It can also be done for the purchase of repromaterials, for sowing, for all other necessary activities in agriculture. In 2019, about a billion dinars of the state paid for these interest rates and proved to be good. It was used most in re-romats, but also a lot of agricultural producers bought tractors this way and then asked for a refund. In order not to end this whole story, we need intensive procurement of new machinery, new tractors, in order to renovate and lower this average age period, and with the downturn of the average age period, you're burning agricultural production, because you said yourself - you're spending more oil than oil. To have optimal consumption, you must have new tractors. If you have carefully followed President Vukic's presentation under the project "Serbia 2025", 70m euros were allocated under the project to buy new machinery. I think it's a very important measure, because we're going to have to combine her with some other measures, maybe modeled and old for a new one. When you buy one tractor, and the old one doesn't disintegrate, and usually everybody keeps it, then it's like it exists, and it's only for parts, you don't have some dramatic descent of average age. If you work hard for a new one, that system can be accelerated. The question is, you asked the question, or you had one proposal, why not subsidize the producers but subsidize the agricultural producers, in order to speed this thing up, that is, so that they don't have to give the money in advance? With this credit support, it can be replaced, and on the one hand, which agricultural producer should we pay that money to, or which factory, which tractors? If we were to favor one, we'd get into a situation where someone would say, "I don't want that tractor, I want this other tractor." (Vojislav Vujic: A lower price. Who wants to lower the price? It's theoretically possible, but in practice it's virtually inconclusive. There would be a lot of possible abuses with that. To go back to that first question you had about the write-off of property tax or, possibly, some other agricultural land. It is the original income of local self-government units. In 2017, when we had a drought, the government of the Republic of Serbia, remember, when they were very low yields, recommended that local self-government units write off the property tax on this basis for one simple reason to be one of the measures to support agricultural producers. It is exclusively about the original income of local self-government that only a local self-government assembly can write off. Your measure is certainly of quality. If you otherwise regulate the income system, then it is justified. I know a few such local self-governments that do the same, but in the end, it's on the responsibility of every president of the municipality, the mayor, whether it's going to work that way. One more thing, I would like to point out, is that we need to get new machinery in the agricultural production process and get back to these tractors. We have another tool at our disposal, and it's via IPARD. They mostly get tractors that are bigger, more robust, stronger, more powerful and expensive. We've spent almost all the money that we've been through the IPARD program available, through applications, on buying tractors, which is good. This means that Serbian agricultural producers had an interest in getting into it and getting 65% back to buy tractors. They're tractors that cost 60, 70, 80,000 euros. I think it's very important that we have this tool. Now we'll have another one this year, another one. It's so-called. A guarantee fund, where for good business plans through business banks, 60% of the collateral will not have to be provided by the agricultural producer, but will be provided by the state and the business bank, and it will only be 40% of the collateral. Today loans aren't as expensive as having security funds, collaterals, so you can buy anything at all, unrelated to whether it's a tractor, another machine, maybe a farm or something. Collaterals are the biggest problem, and for this very reason this project that we are working together with USAID will allow us to offer over three business banks, through this guarantee scheme, to farmers, especially in the fruit sector, vegetables, wine growing, to offer this kind of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70427	Thank you. The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70428	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vujic, are indeed the measures of the most intelligent policies of this government's true priority and simply the fact that the Prime Minister and President of the Council for Popular Policy of the Government, and that the President of the State is the President of the National Council for Popular Affairs and Demography, speaks of all aspects and how integrated and multi-sectorally we work on each of the issues that we have touched here at times, which actually result in already certain results. What is what is the fact that the most innovative policy or population dynamics, as it is said today in EU terminology rather, is the property and characteristic of each country and the truth is that our demographic indicators are still worrying and the truth is that no one has been organised at the level of government, where there have been individual initiatives, a special initiative of experts to do research, but to apply the measures of population policy and that intergratively we have had the opportunity to hear from ministers during the response to your questions and that your supervisory function, when it comes to this segment, has really fulfilled everything that the Rules of Procedure and Act of the Assembly foresees, is just saying that there is almost no Thursday last in the month, and that there are no answers and questions from this sphere. So, three years ago, we first opened a budget line in the government, and we estimated that units of local self-government where there is and there is life, that they should determine what the priorities of the population policy to work on, and then we announced for the first time, or gave grants to local self-government units, and that was 130 million, 15 units received, local self-government cities and municipalities of funds. The following year, it was already 500 million from the budget, in 2019 and this year at 650 million. Why were local self-government units using these funds? The largest number of cities and municipalities estimated that it is unimaginable to support the family in some way other than to satisfy the priority, that there are as many places in preschool institutions as possible. And, indeed, from expanding space, the comfort conditions in kindergartens are improved, and by these measures alone, we have reduced the waiting list for 2,500 young people in many smaller places, primarily rural areas, to open a clear age and care for children from zero to three years of age. It was such a concrete step that the state took, with local self-governments also having to prepare themselves so that with 15 to 20% of their own resources support these grants they received, which they used. The second segment was used mainly to support the pediatric service and the patronage service for which Unicef, when he talks about the advantages and characteristics of Serbia, always says – well, if something in Serbia is well organised, these are segments of the health system in these two parts. But the fact is that there are remote villages, that there are both babies and older ones in those remote villages and that indeed through the purchase of vehicles for the tour of such families, and there we have allocated quite a lot of resources and a large number of units of local self-government actually had some help in the purchase of medical equipment, these are mostly ultrasounds and means of transport. The third segment of very concrete support was "start ap" support for young people mainly in agricultural land, who are planning to stay in the countryside and we helped them actually make the first steps in this segment with these initial financial resources. Why does it matter? Because research says that in Serbia migration management, which Minister Djordjevic spoke of a little more, focused on different topics including demographic and economic aspects. What is the profile of the man who leaves Serbia most often and leaves Serbia and we have a problem with the depopulation. Well, it's just a young man who's come to school or doing some other living needs from rural communities to cities, he's quite well adapted there and he prefers to leave Serbia and he's our most common immigrant. The average man leaving Serbia at this point is 28.7 years old, each fifth has a high degree of education and a significant number of firstborn babies are born abroad and that is our reality. Further measures that are extremely important and that we work together with cities and municipalities are related to advisory work. The advisory work on reproductive health is extremely important, because we have to face the fact that our ignorances in this area are quite large and that, therefore, underage pregnancy and particularly difficult forms of child labour are not frequent, but we also record them, there are also ways to combat these phenomena we are working on the legislative plan, but also in practice. What would be more concrete or just absolutely concrete results of the measures applied, therefore, not only these incentives, not just an increase in visibility and not just this integration work in which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, of course, the Ministry of Finance, all other ministries make an unmistakable contribution. First of all, the absolute numbers that say that only in Serbia compared to the 10 countries with which we have conducted parallel analyses, which are all the countries of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, Hungary, which is a great deal of attention to these issues, Albania, Romania and Bulgaria, were only born with us in 2019, compared to 2018, and only with us is mortality reduced and in which regions? For Belgrade, we expected that there would be more babies, but for Southeast Serbia we did not. This means that this spirit of integration work in the government, investments in southeastern Serbia keep people down and those children are born down there. It is indeed a very encouraging step. The Republic Bureau of Statistics has not yet come up with data on how many children the order of birth has been born more, but the analysis we are doing in the cabinet and we expect that the number of third-born babies will be as high as 600 to 700 000 in 2019 compared to 2018. This means that the government's measures have indeed produced results, that in terms of regionalisation, given the same opportunities for each child to be born first, and then to grow up in the poorest way, that it is actually a single spirit that cherishes the government and that no cabinet, no ministry together, can do so. We can all do that together, and we do that. Thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70429	Thank you. Do you have any other questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70430	I thank you for your answers, and I want you to continue this trend with your work, as well as the population increase. It's a question for Mr. Lonchar. I can't possibly skip the most powerful topic in the world right now, the coronary virus. I'm interested, I'm following, of course, what's going on in the environment, but just to ask you how ready we are as a state to face the possibility of expanding this virus to this part of Europe, don't God give it to Serbia? What are your plans if such a thing doesn't come to pass, and do we communicate the current problem as a state and you as a resolute ministry with the surrounding countries, and will we all work together in this situation? Is there one cooperation plan with the countries surrounding us? Since Mr. Dacic is not here, I will ask the Prime Minister to give me an answer, in fact it is not a specific question, but I am simply interested and I have heard that there have been several questions, I simply wish to know what you as prime minister, all together as government, what do you expect and in what direction will this situation take place further in Montenegro, based on diplomatic experiences, what does our country have? I'm interested in how your work is directly influenced by the statement of US Special Envoy Richard Grenel, who is asking for Serbia to stop the activities that are related to the recognition of so-called. Independent Kosovo countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70431	The first question was for Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70432	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I have an obligation to inform you as the highest home in Serbia about the current situation, primarily with us, in our country, and both in the region and in the world. This question as you could see for yourself, we take it the most serious way and you all know how it works. We, fortunately, don't have any registered cases, which doesn't mean there won't be one. What's this about? It's the 21st century, it's like you can't stop travel, you can't stop migration, you know the epicenter is in China. A lot depends on the measures taken in China. We are all the time in communication, in a constant relationship with the World Health Organization, which is bound, when something like this happens, to issue statements about the current situation and about the measures that need to be taken. What I want to convince you and all the citizens of Serbia, that all those measures that have been proposed so far, that we in Serbia have taken more than what they have asked us to do, that is, what was our obligation to do. From the very beginning, we took an active role, from airports, border crossings, communication with the Chinese embassy, communication with tourist agencies, communication with countries in the region, with those with whom we are bordering, from this increased control, from the surveillance of people from China coming here, whether it was the Chinese, whether those are the people who were ours, who were there, who found themselves, so they came back, whether they were tourists from China, who came here, passing through a number of countries in the region and did, I repeat, more than what the World Health Organization measures have committed. What's going to happen next? There are two problems, which is that there's still no complete information on the virus itself. Corona virus has been known since before, but this is now some new mutation and not enough data is known, especially about the transmission of that virus. What concerns us, at this point, all cases, there are 68, if I'm not wrong outside China, in Europe and in the rest of the world, and most of them were, these are people who were in China, they got infected there, so they came into some of those countries and then they got symptoms and they were diagnosed and it was confirmed that it was the coronary virus. We have what he warns, that's the case in a German person who's only been in communication with someone who's been in China who's been staying in the area. What does that mean? That means that we're going to have to make more accounts, because we don't have official data yet, as it is, as we have for the other viruses, because if we had that data and some more, we could predict exactly from previous experiences that have been with us and in other countries, we could predict how it's going to go and in which direction it's going to go. But no matter what we don't have, we're always getting ready for some worse option than what it's supposed to be. What is expected to peak in the next 10 to 15 days. So that's what's expected from the forecasts of the World Health Organization and experts working on it. In those 10-15 days, there's nothing revolutionary can be done to prevent that from happening, except for the measure of isolation and there on the spot where the measures are being taken, to prevent the migration of that population and those people who found themselves there. That's one way to go. The other thing is that everyone takes the most seriously, and when they get in touch with people who come from that area, or they were there, or they live there, so they come here, they automatically register and get under some kind of surveillance and wash themselves out. We do it with these people, all the time they spend in Serbia, if they move on. Today I had a meeting on the insistence of Chinese Ambassador China, who is here, we are on daily communication, all that comes to us we have offered to provide and do. I mean, so there shouldn't be any panic if there's a case with us. It's hard for anyone to predict now, but the most important thing is that the reaction is timely. What we've done, our teams are doing literally 24 hours of the most professional people. We've got all the conditions ready, we've got the insulations ready, we've got the experts ready, we've got the special vehicles ready, we've got the special equipment, we've got the reagents, if you remember, I think we're one of the few people who've been waiting for this with the Coronal Virus Reagens. Not for one, but for four guys. Everyone was getting it back on their noses, we had it here, and we could, I remind you, these are the reagents that in two hours produce the result of whether there's a coronary virus or not. Of course, we've come into contact with the most prestigious European and world labs where, in case that result appears, we'll review another one. Because that's the principle, that's how it works, that's how the waist insists and that's how it works. What we cannot predict when, who will come to us, whether they will be infected or not. The next thing we do, we also care about all of our citizens who are from Serbia, who haven't lived in Serbia for some time, but it happens to them, if this married couple, or this woman, who lives in China, has gone on vacation to India. They hit them there, fortunately for a woman from Serbia, the results came in, she's negative, there's no coronary virus, she's not in the hospital. The husband is suffering, but literally, we're looking to follow each and every citizen and not now for some reason, but to be able to react in time and prevent. What you need to know, we have formed one team of our experts who only deals with it. These are people who have already had experience in both us and foreign countries, and in other countries with various viruses. What's most important, we have answers for all possible situations that could happen. They wouldn't like to happen, but we have answers and I'm begging you and all the citizens to listen carefully to the verified data, not to listen to half-information and misinformation, because that's what happens, too. So that could be the worst moment right now. This thing must be left for the waist to do, to listen to them, because it's the only way we can get out of this with as little effect as possible. We can't go out of the world, out of Europe. As it happens to others, so do we, but we need to approach the most seriously. This thing can't turn into some day-to-day political activity, into some promotion of something, something completely different, because here everyone has to understand that this is about human lives and that any mistake can cost us dearly. A lot of it depends on our seriousness. We have a responsibility both to us and to our children to react here only as the profession requires. So far we've got everything, there's absolutely no room to panic, there shouldn't be a surprise if there's a case with us. But it doesn't mean we need to relax and think it's happening somewhere else, that it's impossible to come to us. Once again, I would like to thank all of our people, our experts who have since the beginning of this new situation all the time active, literally 24 hours, who are much of what we don't see and whenever something suspicious appears, and whenever citizens who have arrived, where they are awake following what is happening, working on an analysis and asking our citizens not to abuse, because we have a situation, because we have one order at the Infectious Clinic of People who think they have a coronary virus. When you take a history, there's no theoretical chance they have a coronary virus, and then they ask for a name to do a test on the coronary virus. On the other hand, we have another order that requires that they be tested for the coronary virus, because they want to go to a country that's looking for confirmation that they've been tested for not having a coronary virus. I'm only asking for an understanding. We don't have that kind of money to spend so someone gets confirmation that they're going somewhere or someone who dreamed they had a coronary virus so they should do it or call the number of phones we said about people who came from China so they can turn to that phone number that at the same time the team specializes in a special vehicle comes for them so they don't get in public transport, so they don't get in the cab, they don't get in touch with someone else to take, not to call that phone number and say they were on the bus and they took one Chinese guy, at the next stop, the bus was empty, they stayed just the driver and the Chinese were on the bus, so they would come to test themselves. So, people, please, this isn't funny at all, I'm asking for seriousness, and I'm asking you to listen to the advice of those people who are doing it professionally, because that's the only way we can get out of this. This situation is being monitored from day to day, and we will be timely in informing what is happening, and we can't now or much greater minds than we can predict in which direction this is going to go, but we will look to do everything that is up to us and exploit the knowledge of our experts, to help not only us, but also those who are the most threatened in this. Once again, thank you to all people for understanding and thank our experts who are working all the time on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70433	Thank you. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70434	Thank you. As for our expectations and what we think will continue to happen about the disputed law in Montenegro, so here's the last news that came out I don't know if you've seen it is that at a meeting in Patriarchia it was decided to launch an initiative before the Montenegrin Constitutional Court over the disputed law. So, the SPC Synod will launch this initiative. Once again, we as a country that respects Montenegro's sovereignty and the rule of law, and we and we are the country appeal to the EU's pre-accession process there for the rule of law, so we will wait for that decision, but it is a concrete step. Honestly, I expect to see what the European institutions are going to say, and in the context of the rule of law, and also, perhaps a little more about the subject, the inviolability of property. So, even if this is not treated as a religious issue and a question of the rights of minority communities, the Serbian people in Montenegro are a couple of excellencies, a legal question of inalienance of property. So, in that sense, I expect us to see what's going to happen, whatever we decide will be precedentd in any other case. In addition, it is noticeable that at this point, the Venice Commission has not said anything, they asked for the Venice Commission's opinion on the law. They received comments from the Venice Commission that they did not implement, I would think that the Venice Commission would at some point perhaps react and certainly communicate with the EU. And then most importantly, what I think is the most effective is that the Republic of Serbia provides constant continued support to the Serbian people in Montenegro, as well as everywhere. Everywhere is left to be in continuous communication, it also provides support for the SPC and we are fighting together to preserve the interests and all rights of the Serb people wherever they live. In that sense, it's amazing to me again what the MP said. It's not something you can attribute to yourself, but all that's happening right now is the results of our people's activities in Montenegro. I will remind myself that unfortunately, I can't remember that anyone before President Vukic had an initiative and gathered representatives of our people from all over the region, in one place at the same time, to talk, in the Republic of Serbia. We had at least three such meetings, the last one, if I'm not mistaken, was in the King, when we had the airport opening, when all the representatives of Serbs from the region, including Slovenia. It is the first time that there is such a thing, that we sat together, that we talked together, that we agreed together to support, to open Serbian cultural centres, specifically, to support our people's projects and our communities in countries where they live, from education, infrastructure, through culture, through language learning, Serbian language in those countries, and so on. You see when you constantly work on it as Alexander Vucic, whose initiative it is, then you have one unity of people who are primarily Serbian people, representatives of the Serbian people, not those or those political parties, or political afilias in Montenegro, Macedonia, Slovenia or anywhere else, or BiH. So then people know, put their party aside and for some of the interests of the Serbian people fight in a legitimate way, together and thus are stronger. That's the result of these initiatives. There's no need for us to get used to other people's feathers. That's what some of them should have done before us, because they didn't have their results. We have results, they talk enough about us, everything we've done and some things we haven't talked about, some things we don't talk about today, all that matters is that we have a result for the Serbian people and all our citizens in just the Republic of Serbia. I'll come back again, when I say the result, here, I asked, what result are you looking for? The result is, withdrawing that law. That's a hell of a way to say it. Who wouldn't want a score like that? What did you criticize us for, what didn't we do to get that result? We didn't ask to call the UN Security Council on this issue. Do you think calling the UN SB on this issue would give you the desired result or would do exactly what I said before, which is that every time something happens, you call the UN SB and then when you yell like that 10 times -- the Wolf, when we have a serious life problem and we write the UN, what will they say? Here they are again with their 10th letter. You need to be thinking, smart, you need to know when to do what, when to use those diplomatic weapons, not like that. I will tell you one more thing, these are all the things we expect, and this, the Constitutional Court to see constitutional issues, in the jurisdiction of course and within the sovereignty of Montenegro, but also within the framework of their European integration, the rule of law, the integrity of property, issues and within the framework of European integration, the rights and freedom of citizens of whatever faith, the nationality they are in one country that wants to become a member of the EU, in our bilateral relations, I also hope there will be additional meetings, talks between President Vukic and Milo Djukanovic. After all, that's all we're going to do, what we expect, and in what direction we're looking at. But I would have told you if it hadn't been so noticed here. Finally, as a result of all the initiatives we have and finally, I think for the first time since September Serbian language to be taught in schools in Slovenia. This was not possible before because we did not have adequate communication with Slovenia and because you did not have a single request from Serbs there. Unfortunately, they are not a national minority there, which I really don't think is appropriate and is not in line with the European values that we respect and which are being imposed on us. You had somehow three completely separate groups of Serbs in Slovenia, who only argued. So no joint project could agree. Now, we finally have one body, everyone works together, they put their differences aside, and since September we have been learning Serbian language in Slovenia. And that's the result of this continuous work, effort and perseverance. As for the suspension of activities related to the withdrawal of recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence and countries, which, unfortunately, primarily in that first wave without orders, I think, the thinking or knowledge of the facts, or the situation, unfortunately, have, first of all, recognised the pressure of some other international forces, so-called. The Republic of Kosovo. We said he couldn't withdraw his fees anyway. Those two things have nothing to do with each other. The fees weren't introduced because you can't say that something was introduced, no matter what else we need to do now, and we need to do another thing that wasn't the cause of those taxis. The only thing we can talk about is that as long as there is a dialogue, and the dialogue can only continue after the fees are lifted, it can be said that the status quo, so in that status quo, unless they try to join some international organisations and there are no new recognitions, there are no new recognitions, but it is a matter of broader conversations, because it is not so easy to promise or fulfill, because there are countries that think with their heads and who will say – you see, we are at that point, that government is then wrong, it is not in line with our interests either. We now know the situation on the ground. We can't have that easy effect on these countries right now and say - don't accidentally withdraw your confession. So it's a matter of each other's debate, of another dialogue in which all other things need to be seen. But certainly this one thing with the other thing can't be connected in any way, it can't be a sign of equality. Tax tax. The tax has to be withdrawn in order to continue the dialogue, and then we'll see everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70435	The word has a minister, Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70436	Thank you. Well, here I am, perhaps, as Minister of European Integration with all due respect to all the views expressed here and by our prime minister and by the MPs. I only have a slightly different approach, and it is related to what is the accession process, therefore, from Serbia, but also from Montenegro, because the accession process must be managed and I have informed you and answered your question in this way, I have informed the relevant EU institutions because I have reminded that the accession process, if it is equal to everything, must be guided by equal rules. This is the essence and added value of the process. So this is not bringing bilateral issues into the process, because we, therefore, are both Serbia-Montenegro's negotiating countries, therefore, in the accession process, candidate countries for membership. But, you know, Serbia is the only country that negotiated membership and which had a commitment, which we willingly and happily fulfilled, to make up a special action plan, therefore, of national minorities under Chapter 23. And we have shown in this way that as a country we are unequivocally, clearly, honestly defined as respecting multiethnicity, multiconfessionality and every other diversity that exists in our country. These churches and religious communities in Serbia are all free to arrange their internal, therefore, to structure their relations within the church and make their assets available according to the best European standards. I think it's worth the attention and that it needs to be pointed out. What Montenegro is doing, I really do not think it is in line with the fundamental principles on which it is resting and the process of European integration itself and the accession process itself. So we're doing our part of the job in terms of pointing out the fact that what's happening really needs to happen in some way to come across a reaction. What does "reaction" mean? That's the question you asked, and the prime minister, I think, gave one correct answer. So, what are expectations? Are they expected to withdraw this law? Personally, I do not think that anyone will call on Montenegro to withdraw the law, because as laws are not welcomed, so the laws do not withdraw on someone's call, but alarm, in a way, not too much, not by putting too much tension in such a fragile relationship in the region, I think it deserves to be applied as an instrument, but it has nothing to do with the UN Security Council. This would be an entirely wrong approach within the multilateral mechanisms that exist in our diplomacy, there is the OSCE, for starters, the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, where it can. But do you know what I noticed? It is that whenever the issue of the rule of law and the state of the media in Serbia is all from the opposition, therefore from the NGO sector and as they call on the institutions and offices of the OSCE, and I have not heard that if we go from this low level of alarming, not to the fact that the state immediately raises these questions, no one has thought to maybe direct some sort of letter or letter or distraction and so on to the competent offices of the OSCE, which deal with different dimensions, from democracy of human rights, to free elections, respect for the media and so on. Therefore, I really think that Serbia has responded very carefully, I really think that we did, and as the prime minister said, I'll agree, it's not all visible and it doesn't have to be so searched in public, but we certainly have to answer, in a way that has the interest of having good relations with Montenegro, but also that it has the interest and the right to protect, first of all, human rights, so that it doesn't happen to someone else. It is the rule of law, not only when you protect the interest of your community or of your citizens who represent our citizens who plead as Serbs, but not to do so to anyone else, as Serbia's expectations were in this regard and Serbia willingly, sincerely and consistently implemented them. Well, that's what you expect, even if that's what they need to be told. I really do not expect an invitation to withdraw, to be quite open to this law, but certainly to examine thoroughly how Montenegro implements obligations from its negotiating chapters on the rule of law. I think it's a fair approach, so everyone else would react that anything is happening in Serbia with regard to status, therefore, and inalienable religious rights that are part of human rights. So we're working, I think we're doing a reasonable job, I don't think we've made it worse to unsuspecting proportions of relationships, but we've certainly done our part of the job. He may not always be visible, but I want the citizens to know that all instances of the prime minister, the president of the state, the Foreign Ministry and the European Integration Ministry are doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70437	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Vuuć has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70438	To thank everyone for the answers, and now that I've been in the Rules of Procedure for the last two minutes, I have no right to ask any more questions, I will also welcome the Minister of Ecology, Mr. Trivan. Mr. Nedimovic, just one more thing, what I was doing earlier as a proposal didn't apply to the big agricultural producers, the fact, they're strong, they can tell that story, the state needs to help them, they refer to those tiny little tractors that we talked about. It's a good suggestion for you, they can be met and some other methodology that could be designed to get them to meet so that they can team up with cooperatives. A large number of these tiny little ones are not written enough, no offense whatsoever, or there are not enough skills needed to open up a cooperative and lead a cooperative. Is there any possibility that people in local self-government dealing with agriculture can find some time and organize the stands, where these people could get acquainted with the way in which the most easy way to establish a agricultural cooperative is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70439	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70440	Thank you, Chairman. Since there is not a single resolute minister to whom I have addressed questions, I ask questions to all ministers present, especially Prime Minister Brnabic. The first question concerns small businesses and craftsmen. Because of a bunch of unnecessary papers and too long procedures, many of them enter the gray economy and work on black. Entrepreneurs and craftsmen manage to survive. Here's an example. An entrepreneur pays an example of 50,000 dinars per employee. Taxes are 10%, 5.279 dinars, PIO 14%, 9.600, healthcare 5.15%, 3,500 etc. All in all, if I were to list all those commitments that a businessman needs to make to the state on those 50,000 salaries net, it comes out that he should give the state 30,490 dinars per employee. I'm asking you, can a small entrepreneur or a craftsman do that? Can he simply settle all these obligations and simply not enter into some black economy? I ask, how many countries have spent domestic and foreign funds opening foreign companies in Serbia in 2019? Please state to me which local self-government has helped some small and medium-sized entrepreneur, as well as the craftsman and in what form? I ask you why the state in recent years, not now, but for decades, has destroyed the craftsmen's associations, which in some villages, I know in Vojvodina, and certainly in Serbia these craftsmen's associations have existed for over 200 years, so they've cared in some way about how craftsmen will function, etc. The state just doesn't help anymore. All, mostly, craft associations have been destroyed and, in fact, they don't exist anymore. I'm asking you, will the state also pass a law on craftsmen, which they have been waiting for for years? I ask the second question, since there is no real minister for education, perhaps Minister Joksimovic, you say that, and I also know that the European Commission has praised us for having good education in the languages of national minorities. Chapter 23, I think we did well, I don't have copies, we really care about members of national minorities, but I can say that national minorities still don't have textbooks. So, the second term began in Vojvodina, members of the Russian national community in the second grade have no mathematics, in the sixth grade they have no mathematics, biology, history, geography, information and technical. This second and sixth grade this year is learning by a new programme. So, parents were forced to buy their children old textbooks, so they might have to buy new textbooks in April, so, because graduation will be based on a new program.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70441	Thank you. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70442	Thank you. As for small businesses and craftsmen, it seems to me that our special focus in 2018 and 2019 was on small businesses, co-workers and therefore, of course, craftsmen, as part of that group. We've reduced the tax by about 3% in the last three years. I agree that this may not seem very much, it is a significant separation for the state register, i.e. significant revenues that we will not collect, but with all the tax cuts we always think of the country's hard-earned financial stability. So we cut the tax 3% and we'll keep cutting taxes. In parallel, we have increased every year the untaxable income, which is also a relief in paying the salary. Currently, the untaxable income is about 16,300 dinars. When I, if I'm not mistaken, was Minister of State and Local Self-Government, the untaxable income was about 11,000 dinars. So it's not a bit insignificant. Just two days ago, I presented a reform of the pausal taxation system, and it was one of the biggest difficulties, mostly to the cobwebs, so we say that there are small businessmen. Why? Because we had a system where tax solutions were late and two years later, in which you didn't know how much you needed to pay the tax that year and then after you were two years late, you got a tax for all those two years, with that you had to pay it in the next 15 days. You didn't know exactly how much tax should be because he's quite arbitrarily left behind to decide the tax administration, or tax inspectors, and we wanted to make that system completely different, so that it's completely transparent, completely and clearly controlled, to be objective, which is why we've actually closed that area to corruption, because wherever you have arbitration, wherever you have someone discreetly decides how much a businessman will pay, you have a serious space for corruption, but a call for corruption. We have changed it, there is indeed the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration as part of the Ministry of Finance very much withdrawn, we have worked together with the businessmen and now we have a system where you completely transparently go to the Tax Administration site, type all your parameters, which is what you do, which is the code of activity, in which local self-government, where you click on the calculator, and he gives you what tax you need to pay. So it's not too late, this is all done electronically. Electronicly, in a year's time, applications are sent in advance, so taxes are paid. That's where we introduced one complete order and transparency and reduced every space for corruption. Then we are in particular to encourage entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, as of 1 October 2018 for young people who have completed school in the past 12 months, whether the technical school or high school or completed colleges and people who are more than six months unemployed are registering at the National Employment Service from 1 October 2018 if they open their company, in the first 12 months they are completely tax-free, tax-paying and contributions, just so they have 12 months to develop their jobs, to learn, to find the market, not to fear that the state will immediately issue their account in the first month of business. As a result, from October 1st 2018 to December 1, 2019, we had some 780 new companies that employ about 900 people. What's most beautiful in that story is that these companies are exactly where we need them most. So, the largest number of companies is registered in Bruce, so we have Loznica, Tristenik, Knic, so right where we might be harder to bring foreign direct investment, and these people have their ideas, and now we've given them a chance to start their business. Since 1 March of this year, the laws that were amended here in the Assembly in December 2019 have extended that tax exemption to innovation companies for the first three years since its formation. Then on 1 January 2019, we adopted a new regulation that subsidises significantly only equipment, only buying equipment for small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, which significantly improved the blood count of our economy, which is why we are slowly recovering industrial production, which is why we will have, or have had growth in 2019 significantly, significantly higher than planned 3.5%. You have seen, if you haven't, look, today the European Commission has also said that thanks to Serbia's economic growth, the economic growth of the entire Western Balkans has been raised. This is largely due to the construction and many of our major separations in infrastructure and capital projects, capital investments, but also to a large extent thanks to the recovery of industry, which is also because we are once again world champions in attracting foreign direct investment, but also because we have changed the conditions of entrepreneurship. Finally, we gave you special tax reliefs for old crafts, so now and in that application you have to click and deal with old crafts, so that you will be reduced in accordance with that tax. There's got to be a lot of things we're gonna do that we're gonna be able to do. But it seems to me that by now we've done more than anyone else before for our entrepreneurs, micro, small, medium-sized enterprises, in terms of business, the introduction of electronic administration, the cost reduction of electronic administration itself, after all, and here we have, last week you passed the law on archival construction, which we're introducing final electronic archiving. All that stuff saves extra cost to our economy. You don't have to rent a store anymore to print everything, keep everything in paper, digitize, destroy it, and that's it. It will save large companies hundreds of thousands of euros annually. Small, much smaller, but something significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70443	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70444	Thank you. Here, honourable MPs, it really isn't my portfolio, but I will do my best, at least as much as we follow this situation under Chapter 23 and the Action Plan that I've already mentioned for the national minorities. There is a Memorandum of Cooperation in the field of publishing textbooks in the languages of national minorities and in letters of national minorities from 2016. To be honest, for a time the biggest problem was precisely with textbooks in Bulgarian and there somehow focused attention as we solved these problems. The whole procedure goes the next way. You know that the department is defined by the number of students, there must be a certain minimum number of students in order to form the department. If that condition is met, then the programme is agreed with the National Council, the Council of National Minorities, and then the selection of students is returned following the approval of the Book Council, and then the books are translated. I can tell you that there was a problem and there was a lot of waiting for some translations in the catalog of textbooks that were approved, because there wasn't even enough translators. And that was one of the problems, and then that translation, and when it's done, it has to be verified. As for the questions for the Russians, which you specifically mentioned, I really don't know what happened here. Thanks for the signal. I am sure Minister Sarcevic will prepare an adequate response or take some of the activities. I think the problem when there is no home state is an additional one, in terms of some specific activities, because the Ministry of Education is signing contracts with the Bureau for the publishing of textbooks. There's money in the budget for that, that we understand each other. It's a promotion and support of national communities. It is a special republican fund formed, so I can truly promise on behalf of Minister Sarcevic that we will provide you with the information. But thanks for the signalling. I really don't have this information, but never before, except for this topic that was on the agenda with the Bulgarian national minority, we haven't had any more serious problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70445	Thank you. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70446	I'm asking another question, and it's about the Salad life. On the salash between Red and Grey, the couple Dragica and Danilo Kaludjerski live without electricity in the 21st century. So, for twenty years, they've been fighting a wasted fight to get their electricity into the salash. Salash isn't thrown, because it's right next to the New Sad-Sombor regional road, so it's not a joke somewhere that you can't get the power in. It is located only 200 metres from the Jaffa factory in Redka. From year to year, they fight to be electrocuted. Simply, they contact the local self-government in The Tower, the Elektro-distribution in Somboro, etc. That power line is about four kilometers away, which should be provided, so that Salas Kaludjerski can get electricity. Not only would these electricity be connected to them, which would be really, in some ways unnecessary, but about a hundred salads and cottages around the Kaludjerski salash would join the power line. So I ask you, did Serbia forget about those little people who spent their lives on salsa and on those people who, and young people, decided to live on salsa? Is it possible for that part of the Vojvodina to get electricity, to join that power line?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70447	The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70448	Thank you. I'd just like to ask you to forward that initiative to me. I'll go to them and they'll gather all those people who are interested, sit down with the president of the Tower municipality and arrange to get rid of it. It's no big deal, it just has to be more users to know. It's no problem to unsecure people, and thank you for that. I'll do my best to figure it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70449	Here you go, colleague, two minutes of comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70450	Just to answer that joke is called Dad's Ethno salash. So he also has this brand of ethno salsa. I think that's even better. I'll have to answer to Minister Joksimovic. There really is a problem with the Russians, but not just with us, there are national communities. I've simply repeatedly referred to parliamentary questions. I spoke to Minister Sarčević in private. It's just that so far nothing's been done. I can say that my national community has lecturers, translators. We've had education in the language of our minority for 278 years. So, you understand, we have this vertical education and it's not even a problem with the Russian National Council, it's not a problem with that kind of person who translates the textbook. So, I don't know if it's some negligence, what's going on here, but really, parents have been damaged by having kids buy books in September and now the books, last year they arrived in April, and they had to buy books under the new program, because the kids will have to go over that program, because they're going to be taking the prom on the new program, that second and sixth grade. So I think that we really shouldn't do it again, because I think we can really boast in front of Europe that we have a good education in the languages of national minorities, and we keep staring at textbooks for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70451	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70452	Dear Prime Minister, I must once again ask the question that has been asked here several times in this assembly, which refers to an ecological disaster. Of course you already realize that I'm going to ask Mr. Trivan something, but it's not going to be about air pollution, although it's a significant topic and it's very current and very unpleasant, but it's about a city dump in Prepolje that's really in one desperate state, a dump located on the coast of the Lim River and that dump has been spoken here several times. It's, I'm not exaggerating when I say, an ecological bomb, a huge dump on the way into the town of Prepolje, which, with every river, can pull that garbage, and there's organic waste, and you can see anything. It's unbearable, it's unbearable to pass flying there, in winter and somehow. It's a dump that protects the city. It is a dump located on the main road to Montenegro and seen by anyone who passes towards Montenegro or wants to come to Prijepolje, which is the end of which, in a natural sense, has much to offer, both cultural and touristic. I'll remind you it's a mixed environment that could develop healthy tourism. I have to ask you - what's going on? This was a really current topic, and the people of Prepolje didn't get anything. Is it possible that there has not been a solution to the disposal of garbage at the “Banjic” regional dump, although a lot of money has been invested, millions of figures, in this aggregate dump that should have been a common dump for both Nova Varoš and Prijepolje both for Sjenica and Priboj. I remind you that there was also a government decision to dump garbage at the Deep in Uzica dump, but that didn't live either. Is it possible that these procedural problems cannot be solved by you, as the minister who deals with this alone? Indeed, this is a major problem for the citizens of Prepolje and this region. There are many more similar dumps, but none are this visible and threatens to pollute all our rivers. Lim is a river with huge potential that pours into other larger rivers, and they practically tour, completely our rivers catch up to Savi, or Danube. So it could be the source of a massive infection. So I ask you to give me any answer, but if you don't have a concrete solution, please work on it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70453	The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70454	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I don't know which way to respond, and you seem to be out of line with what's going on. So, no doubt one of the most visible dumps we have in Prepolje. I remind you that this problem lasts, how many tens of years? How many dozen years you've been putting down there as local self-government all the things you can't put off? What we found when we started doing this job is an absolute lack, not just of plans, but of money, of projects, etc. So for almost two and a half years now, three of us have been dealing with this problem. We've funded tens of millions to solve this problem. Anyway, what I can tell you is that it will definitely be solved by finishing projects together with local self-government. So, of course we're under way with all the details about it and, of course, we're in the reorganisation of a region where we have to solve the matter of delay, not just in Prijepolje, but, as you said, in Sjenica, Tutin, etc. We work very intensively on it, we don't sleep, we're dealing very much with this problem, because, by supporting what you've said, it's a dump that's a paradigm of our mess, of course you're wrong, a mess that lasts 40 years, and if you thought it could be solved in two years, of course you're wrong. And also, without having to put this kind of detail into it, it only takes for me to tell you that we've invested millions, to do project-technical documentation without which there is no solution. You can have as much money as you want, but if you don't have project technical documentation, you can't even solve it. The problems that have been inherited, which you and I don't have to talk about here publicly, how the municipalities have, in the meantime, communicated as much as they or didn't want. There are regional deposits in their territories, and that's the time that's behind us now because we're very determined to no longer bid on it, that we have to do the job as appropriate, and I'm telling you, look what happens this year and next. So I assure you that it will be excellently done and for all the detailed questions, the most detailed ones that may not be for the public now, feel free to come to the ministry, we will inform you of every detail, so you will see how much effort we are making to come to a solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-30-0.u70455	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since it is 19.00 p.m., we are finishing work in part of the session on parliamentary issues and I thank you all for your participation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
