ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2425	Dear President, honourable vice-presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, my question is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to the Minister of Mining and Energy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and what are the real reasons for the collapse of the electricity network in Tutina and Novi Pazar? It's impossible that in December, a new year ago, the collapse of the power grid... (President: Please let us hear all MPs.) Thank you, Chairman. This is a life problem, and I think it's important that we, as MPs, get involved. So it is impossible for EPS representatives to surprise 10 cm of snow in December before the new year and to have such a collapse that 70 villages in the vicinity of Novi Pazar and Tutina and Sjenica do not have regular power supplies. It put these people's basic needs at risk. They do water supply over the pump and when the power grid falls, it's impossible that they have drinking water. They were in great pain when it came to winter, because everything that was in the refrigerators had fallen apart and now those people living off their humble pensions and wages, their survival is also at great risk. What I am interested in, and what I have received information from the administrator, directors and employees of the EPS, is that some employees who come from the territory of Raška, Leposavic and Baljevac refused to work on the repair and repair of the power grid for the weekend and therefore the collapse of the three-day system took place. So I'm wondering if that's true and if it's true, what consequences will these workers who refused to take orders from their superiors bear? Because it's impossible for you to work in a public company, the state administration, that some people are life-threatening, and you say, "I'm not working for the weekend." It's absolutely unacceptable if it's true. I've been given that notice and I want it examined through the internal control system. The key to the low voltage network problem in Sandzak, in this case in the vicinity of Novi Pazar and the newly marketed villages of Sjenica and Tutin, is an outdated network, a trafo station with a duration and a wooden pillar. We talked yesterday and today about the EU, for our farmer, the people of the caves, the inhabitants of the mosquito villages, the EU is when it gets the concrete pillar. He does not know what Chapters 23, 24, 25, 26 are, but he is interested in having a concrete pillar so that he can deal with agriculture and support his family from it. Also, I was asked by the president of the Great County community to point out the problem of this settlement in the vicinity of Prepolje that due to the lack of an appropriate trafo site, the industrial zone in the area of Prepolje is threatened and now the EPS is asking local self-government to finance it. So, a monopoly company that we all have to pay for all taxes on a regular basis requires a poor municipality to finance it. So, a few thousand citizens are at risk, and an industrial zone has been threatened in one place that has been poorly developed, which has been devastated by the municipality. I expect a clear and decadent response from the government and the resolution ministry on this matter. I also want to take this opportunity to invite all citizens and citizens to visit the municipalities in the interior of Serbia, such as the Sanjay municipalities, such as Prijepolje, there are beautiful villages such as the Komara villages, the Cave, the Stone Mountains, the Zlatar Mountains, the Novopazarska Banja and the Pribojska Banja. I especially invite them to visit the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, the Srlig municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2426	Thank you. Mirsad Hodzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2427	Your Honor, I am giving my question today to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Economy. In the 1990s, the company Vesna from Sjenica, which deals with the production of braids, posamarteria, confectionery, socks and glass fabrics, employs more than 2,500 people from the municipality of Sjenica. This company represented the economic vessel of the entire area of the Cave High. By Decision of the Commercial Court of Kings No. 287-02 of 4 November 2003 opened bankruptcy proceedings against the company Vesna from Sjenica. At the time of opening the bankruptcy process, this company employs over 1,200 workers, who receive a new status -- former employees. Before and after the bankruptcy proceedings were completed, former employees addressed all competent state authorities, institutions for the exercise of labour rights and for unpaid personal incomes. However, these labour claims remained unpaid, and all the assets of this company were sold out. Former employees are pressing charges against the Republic of Serbia for compensation of material damage, and this begins a legal goal that continues to this day. In accordance with the many laws of this State, and with the provisions of Articles 58 and 60. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees the peaceful enjoyment of property, property and other property rights, and the right to work and the right to a fair remuneration for work. There is no legal remedy for which ex-employee and their legal advocates have failed to combat their rights, but there has been no positive solution so far. Taking into account all of the above, as well as the decision of the Supreme Cassation Court of 2019, and the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia of 2020, the former employee DP Vesna from the Sjenica were forced to press charges before the European Court of Human and Minority Rights in Strasbourg to seek the exercise of their rights. The question is, why did the state of Serbia allow its apparently disreputed citizens, workers of the Vesna company in the Sjenica to seek their right before the international court? For whose interests have the courts in Serbia allowed such legal violence and kidnapping? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2428	Thank you. National MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2429	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, addressed the issue to the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, director of the Office. It is, in effect, Mr Svetomir Bačević, who was arrested in Peća a few days ago on charges by temporary authorities in Pristina that he committed war crimes against the civilian population. The Kosovo office has hired a lawyer to defend this innocent Serb, and I am asking a question, citing exactly what happened. Milić – Bačević who was with his brother that day in an attempt to extract documents in Peća, all in order to return 37 acres of usurped land to their property and explain that it is not natural for someone to build a house on something that is yours. So Mr. Svetomir Bačević, who has been released from military service because of his state of health, has been charged with a serious war crime against the civilian population without evidence, based on Sami Ceku's testimony, who was born Brother Agim Ceku. He's been accused of harassing a certain Hattidge Kaderaj, Hadriai, in fact, which is no less than the sister of Aunt Ramush Haradinaj. The charges are absolutely incorrect and his own brother Svetomir told me – if 1% of what is in that indictment were true, I would insist that he be shot. So we're talking about a man who, above all, has no chance of being able to participate in anything, and I think it's reliable that the state has information that he wasn't engaged during NATO aggression as a member of neither the military nor the police, nor the reserve in any sense. So we have a case before us that's not the first, unfortunately, but I'm afraid it won't be the last, any classic intimidation. I'm talking about a family who lived and still has a house in the village of Belo Polje near Peći. Randomly or intentionally, most interested in buying the land of Serbia's Belo Polje, no less than Sami Ceku. The estimate is that by now he has invested more than 20 million in the purchase of land. So any Serb, such as the Bacevic family, who has the need to return to its centuries-old hearth, when they realize that they really really want to arrest one of them on false charges. I know that the lawyer was at that first hearing that was scheduled, that Mr. Svetomir had been carried out by the shackled as the worst criminal, but what I don't know is how it is possible that one of the conditionally responsible authorities representing the temporary authorities in Pristina since 1999 and a serious crime against Marica Miric. You all remember this case of a girl who was distracted in development, who was raped and slaughtered before her mother. The perpetrators of such a crime have never been found, but on the basis of Sami Ceku's claim, Svetomir Bacevic has been arrested for harassing a certain lady, even there is no indication of any harassment. The media spin is wider than all of this. They were showing videos for which, on foreign television, the truth is, no one can recognize them. The family is shocked. I know the KIM Office has done everything it can, but I'm asking for an answer as to how this first hearing went and what the evaluations of a lawyer hired by the KIM Office are. What is off the record, but it may also be addressed to the address of the police minister, is whether it is true that Sami Ceku has some jobs and often gets to Novi Pazar from Peći. I'm talking about a man who talks about his war crimes as an undertaking. So, a question to these two addresses and hopes that the Bacevic family will come to justice. Only in the end, I will say that by November of 2020, 63 attacks were against Serbs in KIM territory. That's what it says about rights that are not respected and that don't have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2430	Thank you. People's MP, Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2431	Dear colleagues and colleagues, volunteering for the affirmative one of the noblest in one man, which is pacifism, community, concern for others, solidarity, assistance, etc. The timing of the pandemic, especially for us in Novi Pazar, has shown the importance of volunteering, the importance of volunteers, the importance of their role in our society. The fight against this monster that hit the entire earth's charm would be unimaginable or I could even say the impossible that volunteers in Novi Pazar did not make a huge contribution and did the most difficult jobs, made it possible for health institutions to function. So, out of extremely difficult jobs, which is carrying too many heavy oxygen bottles, through heavy physical work, which is making warm connections in our hospital, preparing hoards of hospitals, separating red and green zones, it's daily, hard physical work and a huge number of volunteers have, as the name says, volunteered, reported for free and put on the service of health institutions what it really was and what it is for all praise. Of course, nonmedical aid, their daily activity, they help patients, including doctors and medical staff, make thousands of liters of lemonade and other vitamin drinks, food and deliver it to the sick, the sick, and those who need it most. Of course, it wouldn't be possible if we didn't have one big financial aid from our entrepreneurs and, above all, our diaspora. Gentlemen, it seems to me that in this difficult time of globalisation, a liberalism that does not know about solidarity, what was happening in Novi Pazar has really shown how much brotherly love is, what compassion is, how humanity is the diaspora of Sandzak. And not only there, Novi Pazar and Tutin and Sjenica and Prijepolje, but other cities in Serbia helped. The volunteers of Novi Pazar were volunteers, 020 volunteers of Novi Pazar helped and carried help to the surrounding cities, especially Kragujevac, who was the first to help Novi Pazar as regards medical staff, and that is also for any assistance. Of course, all of this was done through our humanitarian organizations, through open arms, through sevapas, across from the middle and other organizations that have indeed found themselves in this very difficult moment. What do I want to tell you? I want to tell you that New Market is a city of good people, it's not the center of crime that some want to present. There is the same thing in New Market, if not less, of criminal activities than in other cities of the same size, it's quite certain. Two unfortunate accounts that took place unlike other parts, larger parts, larger cities in Serbia are not motivated by the rule of drug-market, one or the one, but personal misunderstandings, injured dignity, bar fights, etc. I mean, the city of Novi Pazar and its surroundings, the city of noble people, the peaceful people, the good hosts who cultivate volunteerism, who want to help themselves, but also others. Therefore, given that the Law on Volunteering was adopted in 2010 and that it does not meet today's times and conditions, I ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to enter the process of making a new law that will respond to this difficult time, because volunteering is not only noble, it also helps those who volunteer, they gain certain experience and knowledge and something that we need to cultivate as a society of social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2432	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2433	Thank you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is primarily my great honor to have this responsibility to ask the question on behalf of, for the first time, on behalf of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and to ask for a notice and try to encourage certain state institutions, starting with the MUP, but of course the judicial authority, for all that awaits us in the coming year and what the President of the Republic of Mr. Aleksandar Vucic spoke of at a press conference yesterday, and we are expected to face a lot of challenges in the field of foreign policy, but also internal reforms, the preservation of the health system, the preservation of the economic system and the improvement of our economy and our geopolitical position. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state have been extremely focused these past nine months on only two things, that is to preserve the lives of our citizens and preserve the economy, preserve jobs. I am here every day communicating with businessmen here and in Belgrade and across Serbia I receive such positive messages that the wisdom and vision that the president had, when it comes to measures, particularly economically, has not been recorded here in the region, nor in all of Europe, so thank you and thanks to him and thanks to the work of the government, and fortunately for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all of us who live here in the country our economy has not experienced a collapse like in Croatia, such as in Montenegro, as it is in many countries in the environment, but also many of the countries that are members of the EU, which have been and have been more developed today than we have. However, I would also like to say that we are expected to have a lot of internal challenges at the level of internal policy and I am free to say that all those who envy and all who are not in the interest of Serbia economically strengthening, that Serbia is creating friendships, that Serbia becomes again, because it has become an economic leader and economic factor in the region, to become a political factor again, we should also focus on internal policy. I think it is fairer for those who, here yesterday, are sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who do not hide their aspirations, do not hide their political views, we can talk about whether they are legitimate or not. The head of our parliamentary group, Mr. Martinovic, gave a kind of lecture yesterday from democracy and sent a clear political message that clearly Serbia is good for one part of the opposition, a part of the minority, when it is necessary to give something, when it comes to building infrastructure, when it comes to giving up something, and as soon as it comes to protecting national interests, protecting national interests, then Serbia is not good, let's take it, let's say something against it. I want to encourage the state institutions to react against it, to react against all those who in this country seek and desire the Ukrainian script and do not hide what they write to international organisations, going, hiding in the halls, in the State Department to meet with the five or six echelons of people from the US administration, as Dragan Gilas did, which I had the opportunity to see. Given that on the same day as someone who presented parliament to the United States, I heard it from the people who sent Ambassador Gjerdj Matkovic and me out of that building. So we have people who incognito go and gossip and spit on their country, which is not recorded in the political history of democratic countries. We need to raise our voice against it and we need to raise our voice and we need to react, we expect that from the judicial authorities here in the Republic of Serbia. What was done about stopping everything that was an attack on integrity, what was the dehumanisation of the president of the Republic, his family, and in fact the attack on the Republic of Serbia? We're all talking about it. A lot of people, of course, and because of what I was talking about yesterday, and that's a big rating, this big trust. I'm not saying it's not a rating either, but it's the trust of the citizens of Serbia in Alexander Vukic, in our party. But there is one part of the people who persistently through attempt to dehumanize, through an attempt at aggression and attack, want to create an atmosphere to stop democratic processes in this country. Given this support we currently have, and this support is, you see, that's this blue right here, that's Alexander Vukitch, and everyone else is these dots in this research. We will continue with a policy that includes salaries in the following year of 570 euros, 270-euro pensions, an economic growth of 6 euros, and with our people and the great trust it has in Aleksandra Vukic and our majority here in parliament and our parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, continue this fight for modern strong Serbia, with the leadership and leadership of Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2434	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I didn't want to warn you, even though you did extend a little bit. I know it's extremely difficult for you to be five minutes, but anyway, here's how you get used to it. Since there are no more registered presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, we have ended up asking questions, i.e. asking for explanations and information. I would like to inform you that the sessions were prevented from attending Dragan M. Markovic and Dr. Vesna Ivkovic. We are continuing a unique search on the 5th agenda – the draft conclusions on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020. According to the order of the application for the word, last night we reached the MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many of my colleagues in earlier discussions following this debate pointed out that for the first time the National Assembly is discussing a report like this. I think that's good, that's one practice we need to establish. I am also not surprised that the former European Commission Report was assessed as failing in Serbia and that in their time, while they ruled Serbia, there was no such session because during the former regime and their 12 years, Serbia failed to open any chapters or even become an EU candidate. I understand all their frustrations because the former regime now headed by Dragan Gilas believes that the European idea of Serbia belongs only to them, but according to those measures and criteria that correspond exclusively to them. Also, I was surprised by the discussion and by some colleagues who do not support the government, of course, it is their right, that here in the National Assembly they speak of that there is dictatorship in Serbia, and I ask the question – if there is a dictatorship in Serbia, how did you become MPs? On what basis did you become MPs? Is there opposition in the dictatorship? Are you a false opposition, if there's a dictatorship here? Or have you been elected to the democratic elections in which you participated and received the trust of a number of citizens? And let them not forget, they represent not only those citizens, they protect not only those citizens' interests, they protect the interests of all Serbian citizens and the interests of the Republic of Serbia. And I cannot get an answer that as they read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and talk about how it is possible to change that Constitution, yes, it is possible to change it. Will they respect him until we change him? Well, I didn't hear that. And I wish I did. Because, I guess, one of the conditions of EU membership is respect for its own constitution. It seems to me that this is the problem, that it is one of the conditions and political dialogue. But Alexander Vukic or the Serbian Progressive Party can't talk to themselves, they can talk to them. One more thing, every discussion in this House, and even mine, is subject to criticism and the public, as well as my fellow Members of Parliament. That's where we talk about our differences. That's where we oppose each other's arguments. So if someone represents a minority, I don't mind, let them express their political views, and I also don't mind, but let's not expect that if we don't agree with him to keep quiet. Well, I guess that's democracy. Freedom of speech, freedom of dialogue. The former regime also assesses the report that Serbia has been misjudged, as it reverses and has not said in any of the areas in which Serbia is returning. Here, all the portals, all the TVs of Dragana Gilas, the School talk about it, write about it. What part of this did Serbia go back to? Where are they, where did the European Commission report find them? Not at all. I guess that's why they write and talk about it to make a political point or the rest of their political life. I can't see whether in these discussions, they bear the responsibility that this European Commission report is not at least a little better for Serbia. On the other hand, they haven't even managed to be candidates in 12 years. What is the current government's problem, the current National Assembly's calling, and what needs to be solved to make even faster progress, even better assessments by the European Commission? They say one of the things is the Constitution. As far as I know, we launched a procedure at the end of 2018 to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to bring it into line with the legislation of the European Union. This constitution concerned the public prosecutor's office and judicial functions. The Constitution does not require a simple majority, a change in the Constitution, the start of a change in the Constitution, a two-thirds majority and an absolute majority in all the working bodies of the National Assembly that participate in the process of changing the Constitution. The Serbian Progressive Party, with a coalition that was then on the electoral list and the SPS, did not have the two-thirds majority, or the issue of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, the matter of SNS, Aleksandra Vukic, the SPS or the national issue. In some of their earlier performances, I estimated it to be a national issue, at least that's how they tried to trick citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Then, for the changes to the constitution that the Venice Commission assessed to be completely correct, to strengthen independence and bearers and judicial and prosecutorial functions, they did not want to vote here in the National Assembly in this way, provide a two-thirds majority and end these changes. For this reason, they left the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and declared some kind of boycott of the work of the National Assembly, not because there was a dictatorship here. There was no dictatorship, neither now nor now, but they simply subdued their party's personal and financial interest to be more important to them than the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and to its full membership in the EU. That's what Dragan Gilas is, and that's how the former regime is, and when they talk about human freedoms, about the election process, everyone agreed that whatever inter-party dialogue it was, gave very good results, and that Serbia had the best conditions and the highest standards in the 2020 election process, since the elections in Serbia took place. Only one thing SNS and Alexander Vukitch didn't want to meet. You know what that is? That all ministers resign, and then the former regime MPs propose their ministers, as a transitional government, set out the list, specifically to counterparts Aleksandr Martinovic, and rule Serbia without the support of citizens. Even in their demands, they went on. Not only in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but in every city in every municipality, they only left out the advice of local communities. And that's why they're attacking us that there's a dictatorship here. Now look at what it looks like in reality. One of the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gordana Comic, for 20 years with counterpart Komic, disagreed in many things, especially while supporting Gilas's government of the Republic of Serbia, disagreed. We had diametrically contradictory opinions on many issues. Today she is a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that what happens in dictatorship? She's not icabana, she's running a significant resort, just what we're talking about right now. It's not icabana. He's a real minister. I expect that there will be serious and good results in the next period, and that is why I have also supported her as minister in choosing the government. Also, I have to ask a question. What kind of dictatorship are we? Here, they're attacking these Gilas portals now. All that we say about the President of the Fiscal Council, Pavel Petrovic. Do they think that we don't know that he was the assistant minister in the government of Zoran Djindjic and that of Bozidar Djelic, what the people called God's derricoz? You don't think we know that. We knew. We also knew he was president of the National Bank Council of Governors, Vice Governor, president of the National Bank Council in 2003. We didn't mind supporting him to be re-elected president of the Fiscal Council. We didn't have that problem. Now, it bothers Mr. Paul that some other ministers are better and some other governments than he was the assistant minister or while he was running the National Bank, it's his personal problem, not mine. And if he really loved Serbia, he wouldn't be involved in jealousy, but in Serbia. Let's take a look at the justice reform. Why are the evaluations not even better for the European Commission? Just remember the kind of judicial reform they made in 2010. Here, there's Minister Selakovic's colleague, he was justice minister from 2012 to 2016, and today we are correcting all their indifference, injustice and illegality in the area of justice and the work of the prosecutor's authorities. Do you really think that this reform was implemented properly, that Majic could be the judge of the Court of Appeal and that he would release the person who was advertised guilty of the promise of a minor child? Well, that's why we don't have a better report on the situation in the judiciary, because if we start changing them we're going to disrupt the independence and independence of the judicial office here in the National Assembly. It's obviously one of the serious problems this government has to deal with at some point. I hope that these constitutional reforms will finally end and reform the judiciary and that those who are not worthy of judicial and prosecutorial functions will leave those bodies. The Republic of Serbia, also, noted in the report itself the satisfaction that Serbia is the leader of economic reforms in the reporting period, and at a time when the whole world is struggling with an unremembered crisis, not only do we manage to maintain a positive economic trend, but we go further towards providing better conditions for our citizens to live and work. All the reforms we carry out and carry out in the first place for our citizens. We have accepted EU standards because they are in the interest of our citizens. However, in all these processes, we can also talk about judicial reform, and reform of the prosecution, and economic reforms, and any other reforms, to reach the EU's greatest standards, to say in the near future – we have fulfilled everything, now it is up to you to decide whether you will receive Serbia in full membership or not. We're free of all that. I appeal to all EU ministers to help Serbia in one of the most important things, which is about preserving peace and stability here in the Western Balkans. Without preserving peace and stability, there is no economic progress, no Western Balkan country in full EU membership. I ask all ministers to refrain from telling Serbia what is best in its interest as long as negotiations on the status of our southern province continue, and for reasons why they give different extremists the right to disrupt the hard-earned peace and stability that everyone in the Western Balkans needs. I am fully convinced that not in such a distant future, perhaps in a few years, we will tell the European Commission - we have fulfilled everything, it is up to you to decide whether Serbia should be an EU member or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2436	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2437	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday and today, for the first time since our country has been in the EU accession process we are considering the European Commission's report, and this indeed speaks enough about our commitment and our ultimate goal, which is participation and EU accession. That's what a lot of people here have repeated, and representatives of the government and MPs, that's our strategic goal. Also, we really want to give our European partners the knowledge that we respect their criticism and praises, and that we are ready to put their suggestions and work on them. Our close relationship with the EU is not only about geography, it is not just about sharing the same cultural civilization values, but about economic interdependence above all. If you look at it, the biggest trade in goods is being conducted by the EU, 65% of Serbia's couture exchange is being conducted with EU countries. The largest investor in Serbia last year was the EU with 70% of all investments. The highest donor in Serbia, means, grants, 300 million on average, gives the EU annually. I must stress something that happened recently, which is that the EU has established an Economic Investment Plan to help all countries in the Western Balkans, and that is where most of the cakes will take Serbia, because it is a central country. It is a huge nine-billion-euro package that is preparing to be defined to help economies, and all countries will have a problem after the ratios with economies in this part of Europe. It speaks enough of our interests, for, as they say, God is high, and interests are eternal. So what I'm saying is that this plan is detailed, objective, and I'm going to look back at what's part of my action, including my board that I chair, which is minority and human rights. Of course, I will try to be correct and balanced, correct, first of all, towards my country, so let it be at my expense. The report notes that the legal framework for respect and protection of minorities and cultural rights is widely established and generally has support under the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. What does that mean? It means that laws concerning national minorities, which are the Law on National Councils and the Law on the Protection of Freedom and the Rights of National Minorities, are valid, according to them, that the legislative framework, which they support and which is in accordance with and balanced with their legislation. I am pleased, indeed, by what I have heard from the Minister of Human and Minority Rights and for dialogue, who has really opened the door of her ministry for all the councils of national minorities, for the national council, and very openly invited all the greater ones, and that they also want to hear, to deliver all the problems and suggestions they have and that this ministry, in whose work is their work from now on, has a desire to solve the problems they have. Of course, I will also refer to the fourth opinion on the application of this Convention, which was given by the Council of Europe on National Minorities, where there is a derogation, and this should not be said, in protecting minority rights between the AP Vojvodina and other regions of Serbia, and it is recommended to improve the protection of national minorities outside Vojvodina. What I think is a central topic and what we can easily solve, is what is said, despite the legislative obligation to take into account the ethnic composition of the population, national minorities are still under-represented in the state administration. Of course, it is said that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia have entered the process of creating, collecting data on this representation and that they want to have a clear picture, which is certainly an indication that the state wants to solve this problem. One of the main objectives of our party is the integration of minority peoples into all state institutions. We believe that, above all, it is in the highest interest of the state and we think that minority nations with their personalities, their specialities, their qualities, can contribute greatly to this country. This problem of the state can be very easy to solve and I hope there is a serious plan for it. I mean, since you're here, Mr. Minister, I've said this many times and while you've been Minister of Justice, because I think you should start, first of all, from the representation of minority peoples in judicial authorities, first of all in the prosecution, because somehow the state of Serbia is perceived as a public high prosecutor, for example, in the New Market. It's extremely important for him to be from the city he lives in, it would be very desirable, if it were a polite, well-known person, a family, who has really one support, of course, a non-partisan personality. It doesn't matter at all, I would, of course, like to follow the laws, to be Bosniak, but it can be, indeed, a Serb we know, which is worth the attention and that, and the positions to judge and judge us. I think there's really a lot to do in that field. You know that until recently we had a judge in the Constitutional Court, however, we do not have him today, in high court. I think in higher courts and in all courts of importance, in appeals courts, there are no Bosniaks. It's something that really needs to be changed, and I think that this reform of the judiciary, which is ahead of us, should be used for that. Of course, I and I have great hope in the new justice minister, who, by his biography, really shows that he's a serious lawyer, that there's a serious biography behind him. It's a guarantee to me that there's been a painful effort to get to their position and that they're going to value people of similar qualities. Believe me, this is my sincerest goal today, in my presentation of people from my neighborhood, both Serbs and Bosniaks, that real people, honorable people come to such important places. That way we will strengthen our country. Of course, we have that other problem, and that's the underdevelopment outside of the Vojvodina of those parts where minorities live. I think the state creates preconditions, first of all, by building a highway. Mr. Vukic announced that a contract would also be signed to continue from Požega to the Long Field, which is indeed a central issue. There is much to be commended for what the Republic of Serbia has done, and that is, above all, the establishment of education in the languages of national minorities. Today, 60% of the children in Sandzak learn their Bosnian language. You used to learn from scripts, and today you learn from serious, quality textbooks, and that's the work of this government. So the 201 textbook is in the catalogue of the Ministry of Education seduced. I can tell you that for the seventh generation of children, they've been consummating their rights, and that's something to be commended for. Of course, it makes me happy, I heard yesterday from the minister, which she insists on respecting and learning languages. My children learn Bosnian language and attend classes in Bosnian, but you know, they have an equal Serbian language within their education, in the same size and quality as the Bosnian language. It is very important for us in the SDP that children do not separate in teaching, live together and education together, and thus create the best relationship that exists and that needs to be grown and that, later on, these friendships will provide much. I'm the best example. I can tell myself that I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm... In any case, since I am finally, I would like to conclude that Mr. Fabrici has indeed confirmed in our committee session that we have already started to do, first of all, this Parliament and here I thank the President of the Assembly for trying in every way to strengthen the integrity and respect of this Parliament, which is very important to me as a representative of social democracy and parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2438	Thank you. I was just about to interrupt, so you started to praise me, so I said I'm not interrupting now. Let's have a little fun. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2439	Thank you. Mr Selkovic, I think it is extremely important, for the first time in a broader context, to consider the European Commission's 2020 Progress Report on the Republic of Serbia, although we are formally discussing the conclusions of the Committee on European Integration. The fact is that through these two days, we have touched a different spectrum of topics concerning both the Report itself and the general, of being as topics of European integration in the Republic of Serbia and the region. For this very reason, not wanting to be too long, to leave enough time for my colleagues to talk about this extremely important topic, I want to look back on only one aspect, one segment, which seems to me not to be sufficiently prominent in this debate that we have had so far, which is part of the role of the Republic of Serbia in terms of regional co-operation. We know that this assessment in continuity is good for the Republic of Serbia, but it is important to point out that this positive assessment that the Republic of Serbia has in this period is well deserved. And it is not some ad hoc assessment of the European Commission, but primarily continuous action by high representatives, to say, executive, legislative, and above all, the President of the Republic of Serbia, has continuity in the region. Since I come from the region, I must say that the messages coming from Belgrade, the initiatives launched from Belgrade, were medicinal in the area of the whole region, that part of the region that we are discussing today, which is the integration process, the process of integration and the EU, but also the process of economic integration. For this reason, it would be good to remind that, given that we now have this new methodology in the cluster of two, which defines in this case all the issues concerning the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, relating to the establishment of the Mini Schengen, so classified and in the cluster of two, if we see that these are topics - freedom of movement of goods, freedom of movement of workers, the right to establish businesses, the freedom of movement of capital, the right of companies, intellectual property, financial role, consumer protection and in the third cluster - the customs union, we see that this methodology is also fully in line with the foreign policy and the government of the Republic of Serbia, which the prime minister represented here, but what the President of Serbia is doing on the foreign policy plan, in terms of initiative, and our Minister Selakovic, who is following that policy. For this reason I want to remind the public here in the Republic of Serbia and all of us of a good partnership that we can do at this point, which is a partnership with the Visegrad Group. Namely, for all those who may not have followed enough dynamics that the Visegrad Group, which includes four important EU countries, which still perform together in the EU today in one bloc system that implies that they position themselves in the EU much stronger than they would individually do, regardless of the extraordinary strength and influence of Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, together and how important work they are doing in the EU today. The message and the way they have integrated into the EU is much more important. As early as 1991 they formed the Visegrad Group and for 13 years the process lasted from 2004 to 1 May. All Visegrad groups have the town of Visegrad, and we in the region, Republika Srpska, BiH have Visegrad, so this initiative is closest to us somewhere. Also, the Visegrad Group countries support the Western Balkans integration process and give good stimulation, and above all I think they give an extremely good message in this regard. It is in this context that the initiative that is coming in the direction of the formation of Mini Schengen is heading towards and negotiating according to the new methodology, related to clusters two and three, but primarily send a message to countries on the European path, which, regardless of the status of the negotiations they are in today, have the same problem as Serbia. I don't want to point out much at this point, but in any case it is a decision, the EU's intention by which dynamics will receive a complete space, and it is unquestionable that the countries that are now in the status in which they are in the integration processes in the future time period are certainly to be adopted together because of the initiatives that are going in this direction in the formation of mini Schengen. The joint economic and integration processes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are colleagues, and there is no need to wave in this case, Montenegro, which considers itself to be something more advanced in this regard, as if this is a one-way street. The integration process with the EU is a two-way street and what is very important in all of this is that we perform together in all of this. Northern Macedonia understood that, Albania understood that, and Serbia and Aleksandar Vucic are leaders in the process. It's the idea of Mr. Alexander Vukic, not for me to praise my president, but it's unquestionably so. He is pushing strategically in every possible place in the contacts he has with EU representatives, pushing an idea that is good for the Republic of Serbia as well as good for all the peoples living in this region. For this reason, we are for integration processes, but we are primarily for economic co-operation in the region, and that is the first step, the most important, to prepare ourselves for a large market and economic and political match when we enter a high forehead tomorrow, with a clean face in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2440	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2441	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, as counterpart Adam Sukalo said – for the first time in history in parliament today we are discussing the proposal for a conclusion on the European Commission's report, another step and proof of our commitment to the EU path. I mean, on this trip, we've never even met, especially since the ratification period of the 2013 Association Agreement and later since the opening of the first chapters, until now, where it's been six years. The goal of the government and Serbia is to illustrate the good practices we see in the EU and implement in our country in order to ensure a good and quality life for our citizens. I want to say that we work together with our European partners on this and only this report, which we could read, tells us that we have not gone back anywhere in this period, and that the report finds that in certain chapters we have made some progress, we have made significant progress in this process of Eurointegration. If we look at the public opinion and research that has been done, and there is another proof of the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia because it has adequate and transparent communication with citizens when it comes to this process, that the above-average majority supports Serbia's path to the EU, so that I am sure, if we still have a referendum today, that citizens come out and vote on EU accession, that most citizens would absolutely support this process. Another proof of how attached we are is that we are the only country from a candidate who has a separate ministry dealing with the process of Eurointegration. In other countries, it is either a foreign ministry segment or special persons within the government. No, we have a separate ministry that, in coordination with other ministries in the government, works together as a team in this process. Of course, we have heard, not only now, but also in previous reports, that we have achieved the greatest progress and the greatest results, which is also confirmed by this report, and I want to say that this is confirmed in the commissioner's statements, so we have had the opportunity to hear Enlargement Commissioner Oliver Varheji who said that at the time of the pandemic, I quote: Serbia is fighting better than the rest of the region, when it comes to economics." Also, the message we received from it is that the future of the entire Western Balkans region is also in the EU, which is also what it says about the commitment of European partners to make the whole region part of the EU. I will remind you only because of the citizens, thanks to the difficult reforms that started in 2014 when the prime minister was Aleksandar Vukic, that we managed to achieve such significant economic results thanks to this and consistency, so that we also fought with finance, we have achieved their consolidation. Today's finances are stable. We've solved the problem of a large number of problematic companies that, I'll remind you, were over 600 when the SNS took over, and now this number of problematic companies whose status is being solved, the two-digit one-digit number is approaching. I'll say all these are inherited problems we've taken over. When we look at macroeconomic indicators, in 2019 we ended up with a real GDP growth of 4.2% and I'm sure there wasn't this pandemic that this growth this year would have been exceeded. Thanks to the timely measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia together with the National Bank and other institutions, they enabled us to successfully fight and preserve the health of our citizens, and then to ensure through the application of other measures that the impact of the pandemic, i.e. that the negative segment is as small as possible on our economy. A number of measures, which were taken from the payment of minimum earnings in all sectors affected, and the last one was in the tourism and catering sector, through the moratorium when it came to paying off the loans, and until the payment of those famous 100 euros to all the full-time citizens who showed that desire, have provided, and also that we have not given up on capital investments and that they have been made at the time of the pandemic, will precisely result in the lowest drop in GDP as a state, which, by some estimates, will be between zero and one percent. Inflation was maintained stable and low, the exchange rate was maintained stable, thanks to the efforts of the National Bank of Serbia, which is also one of the significant preconditions when we talk about attracting foreign direct investment, which makes us champions, so that in 2019 we had about 3.9 billion euros of foreign direct investment. But it's not just investment, as it used to be, the sale of assets and the release of that money into consumption, it's actually investments that will ensure the further growth of our economy. If we are successful this year, it says that we will end the year with 2.8 billion euros of net investment in Serbia, which is why we are again champions in our region. We have done a lot to improve the financial market, address problematic loans, maintain a high level of liquidity of financial institutions and have taken account and come out to meet both citizens and businesses when it comes to the problems we have received at the time of the pandemic. Also, it was working in the profit reform segment, so we had opportunities in the previous period and now to voice a reduction in tax burden when it comes to employers, we increased the untaxable part of the salary, so we created conditions for further development of our economy and for us to continue to be economic champions. That we are on a European path when it comes to economics, that is what colleagues have said, says statistics that 65% of the exchanges are made with European partners, that about 70% of the investment comes from the EU and that, when it comes to individual donations and grants, we are back at the top, or that the EU is first in line. When it comes to pandemics, we have had great support and assistance from the EU and in this fight, and I am glad that we have donated two million euros in the EU Conference in May 2020 to help develop and provide equal access to vaccines, tests and medicines intended to fight the crowns, and I will remind you that when Italy was most difficult to send, we have as much assistance as we could at that time. We never hesitated to help those who needed help. As you can see, we have huge public support when it comes to EU accession and that path we are going to, but, of course, there is a minority who criticises. But it's more criticism for criticism and without some arguments to make them do it better than we do. What I would like to point out is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also in the previous period, and also in this period since it was newly formed, in the further integration process, so we have five chapters that are ready to be opened according to the old methodology and two other chapters, these are Chapters 10 and 28 that have been intensively working on meeting these criteria, i.e. the criteria for opening chapters to be open. What is important to say and I was talking about that the methodology of talks with candidate countries was changed in 2020, so this year Albania and Northern Macedonia are those that will enter these negotiations and we absolutely support both their talks and the integration of the entire region when it comes to Eurointegration. We have, of course, been given the opportunity to choose whether the negotiations will continue in the old or in the new methodology and we have decided that this will be a new methodology. So, just one reminder that in the next period, we're not actually going to talk about opening individual chapters, but about clusters of chapters that have six, which contain related chapters, by theme. We have other than these six clusters of two separate chapters, these are those institutions and other issues to be discussed further. This new methodology only encourages us to be even more efficient and more effective in further work and to work with reforms, primarily in order to improve the lives of our citizens. What I also want to say is that in the coming period it is important that we work together with the European Commission to determine the dynamics and modality of the talks when the question of this new methodology, which is not only a newspaper for us, is also a newspaper for the EU, and the statements we have received from Commissioners Varhelj and other members of the delegation, are actually only in favour of their overwhelming trust and give great support to the Republic of Serbia in further steps towards EU accession. For example, Commissioner Varhelj, at a session of the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Trade Affairs, stressed that Serbia is the most important trading partner in the region and that with a clear European perspective, it has a unique responsibility for the progress of the entire region on the EU path. I now want to mention President Vukic's initiative on the formation of "mini Schengen", which was approached by Albania and Northern Macedonia, and I hope that Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina will also join, because this very mutual co-operation and integration are some of the important principles on which the EU is based, and this initiative that came from us tells us that we want the entire region to be part of the European family. Commissioner Varhelj also said there is full confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Ana Brnabic, that he would take all steps to implement the reforms needed to speed Serbia's path to the EU. What we have been able to see in the period since the government was formed, that and how the steps in this reform are intensified and that much more will be done in the next period, and this opinion and attitude are not only shared by me, you share and you, fellow MPs, but also by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in elections on 21 June, by the vast majority, supported the list of "Alexander Vukic – For our children" because they saw the results and saw that we were determined to carry out these reforms further. Finally, I just want to say that the Republic of Serbia will continue to work to strengthen its institutions, legislation, rule of law and work further on implementing the necessary reforms, but also through the implementation of the "Serbia 2025" plan in further economic strengthening and maintaining the position of the economic champion, in order to create conditions for an even better life for our citizens, new investments, new jobs, a better standard of living and, of course, entering the EU family. For this reason, we will support the proposal for conclusions on the European Commission's report in the voting day together with our fellow MPs from the list "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2442	Thank you. National MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2443	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will begin a little differently than my previous colleagues. In fact, on today 27 years ago, Serbia unfortunately set a world record. She set the world record in inflation that day at 19,810.2% and it was printed that day, released into a 500 billion dinar bill, if anyone remembers those many zeros and numbers and colors, but on the bill was Uncle Jova Dragon. Why am I going this way? Because that's the point that we should run the most from when we think as a people and as a state, but from history, history is always a mother and a good teacher, we need to learn it well that we would never again be left behind and that new generations don't have a chance at all to find each other in such a thing. The sovereignty of a country, this is better known to people who have learned international law in our colleges, the sovereignty of a country is the most confirmed right when you become a member of international organisations, the stronger international organisations or international alliances, then your sovereignty as a country is growing stronger and stronger. So, because someone thinks that by joining the EU, part of our sovereign affairs as states will be transferred to, not the EU, but to joint affairs, because we often forget that when we enter the EU, we will decide. We will be someone who will decide in the whole process, and decisions are made by consensus. So, without our will, some decision will not be made. Today we do not decide anything and I say to everyone that today we are weaker than we will be when we join the EU, not only economically, in every respect, economically secure, but in every respect we will be stronger, stronger, more influential on the international agenda, than we are now, although we are now repairing the situation from year to year more and more, year to year more and more. That's why yesterday I didn't like any of the speeches of the messengers who spoke again about the '90s, what happened. Aman, guys, leave it behind. Let's look at what we're going to do and how we're going to move forward and how we're going to convince our citizens that we're going to be part of the EU soon and that it's worth it to stay here so they don't go to Bangladesh to live when they leave Serbia, not to go to Gibute, not to mention some of our brother countries, call strategic partners, but to go to the EU Member States to live. Unfortunately, 99% of them are going, and we should convince them to stay here and do everything we can to have a country so organized as to live here as well as in one Austria, Czech Republic, come on, Sweden might still be far away to say, but in that way and in that way to live. I was simply surprised to hear that President Makron, who was a young boy 30 years ago, who was a great friend of Serbia, who was struggling with the coronary virus, was sick, and who was among the first support for healing was sent by President Vukic and wanted to heal as soon as possible to continue working on this difficult path of Serbia, which had a different path than the other members, but at that time 30 years ago, 20 and a few years ago, some countries such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary that were poorer in the 1980s than Serbia, than Yugoslavia, were far poorer, were candidates for entering the European Union and they are now full members of the European Union and are far away, we all know that, in every respect of economics, when we look at GDP on the head of the people now crossed us. These are the consequences of everything that's happened to us before. From these consequences, we must learn and move on. Some colleagues have spoken, I won't repeat, it's enough just to say 70% of investments in Serbia, meaning in the economy, in that 70% of these investments are most important to us from the European Union and everything else. I hope, Minister, that by the end of this nine-month period, this, this and that we have experienced, after all the wars, sanctions, fate, we have experienced a pandemic like this as a generation, like now a people, but I hope that because of the truth, because I often hear from fellow Members of Parliament from Europe or their ambassadors a question – who helped you more? I don't think it matters, everyone's help needs to be thanked, whoever helped us, but I think we owe it to the citizens of Serbia to announce one day when all this whole fight against the mosquitoes is announced who really and how much help we have in the figures. I think it's easy and easy to calculate, but I think it's the government of the Republic of Serbia's duty to tell everyone to know, that it would no longer manipulate those data, because our exports are almost 70% on the EU market, too. Why? Well, here we are. How did Karadjordjevics and Obrenovici create Serbia? Well, everybody knows. By us trading from these parts with whom then? Well, with Vienna and the Cave. This created some basis for liberating Turkey's empire and creating a modern Serbian state. It's working today, it's still today, 70% of exports and 20% of the country in the region. That's 90%. Only 10% remain for exporting our goods. The rest are the United States, Russia, China, Turkey, Norway, which is not a member of the European Union, North Africa, Israel. That's the rest of them, but they're all in 10%. So we're tied to that space and we just have to keep acting like one. The strength of the European Union consists of a strong market. That 500 and a few million people, that market, is here as you can see, almost three times smaller than Chinese, but it's seven times stronger in terms of purchasing power, twice as strong as the American market in terms of purchasing power, in my opinion evidence that this market will remain, sometimes it began as a European economic community, and that it will survive exactly as Bregzit. Those who know well how the EU has functioned and what the position of the UK was in the EU they know that the UK has never even been a member of the EU in the way it was France or Germany. They were never in the eurozone, nor did it occur to them to leave the pound. They never entered the visa regime. They always had their visas. When we travel, if we have any parliamentary co-operation with parliament in London, we must draw out a visa. It's not the same situation as Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, etc. Before Bregzita, too, but with today's day they have not completed their separation from the EU. Why? Because of the market, because if they leave completely that means they're competition. If they are competition, companies from the UK market will leave those working on the EU market, cross over to the Netherlands or Germany, Serbia if it is a member, and England will weaken economically and they know it. That is why they are struggling to keep everything they had in the EU in terms of markets and businesses not to lose even though they have decided to leave the EU. Support among members who became after 2000, mentioned the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, is over 80% among citizens. In Poland, it's 90 percent. One of the things, which is if we know that we are acting in this period, which Poland has best done, is what the English have just said, they have been investing in a total budget of 80 billion euros for one budget of seven years, and the Poles have withdrawn 80 billion euros. So, Poland knew that all of this was being put into place, and that's why those stories about circles in me are completely unrealistic because they would have to agree to the current Member States, and I remind myself that it's a consensus that they would agree to when they're this good. That's why we don't need to think about these things. We should think about us. EU funds for local self-government, I notice with younger colleagues also that they are very interested in local self-government, which is important, but I will tell you one example – Bratislava does not have half a million inhabitants, Belgrade is four times larger than Bratislava. Bratislava has a budget of 800m euros, and Belgrade has a billion euros, and I repeat, it is four times bigger. In addition, Bratislava withdraws another 70% of its budget from EU funds, which is over 500m euros and comes out in a year to a billion and 300m euros, the bigger the budget than Belgrade, I repeat that it is a four times smaller city. These are all the things we have to fight for as soon as possible to join the EU. Ecology. Serbia cleans up only 10% of waste water. Aero-pollution may be the biggest in Europe. We're recycling less than 5% of municipal waste. We've got dumps, people, we don't have dumps. We've got a meadow to take out the trash. We don't have any sanitary dumps. These are European standards. That's what citizens expect of us and what they want. The wild dumps I'm not talking about. About the wild dumps that I don't talk about, as far as I can see, which are at every turn. They're our mess. We've got to get to the bottom of our mess. It is not the people's messenger who hides the shame; it is a good messenger who faces it. That's why I'm talking like this on purpose, because these are our problems that we need to solve. And why is that? Because some people speak dangerously. Dangerous speeches in terms of where the EU and us are represented in a way that there's only one target between us with the gate and that someone is deliberately holding a firm gate so that we can't go through it. It's not. It's a club that's existed for decades and has its own rules. If we want to be part of that club, and we'd better be, we have to meet those standards and we have to meet the conditions to be part of that club. It's true, part of us slowed down the crown, part of us slowed down this Bregzit, part of their disorganization, which, etc., will have their own problems, but one big part we have to change our behavior. They say the problem is the judiciary. I'm from the judge's house. I've been fed by the judge's bread. My sister's a V.A.'s deputy, so it's now said, she's got a basic and a higher one in Smederev. We as politicians really, if it's my impression, we're no longer deciding anything about being in the judiciary, nothing. And when we listen to this Majic judge, I think it's Serbia's only problem, and it's not. They decide, they deliver everything, now I'm going to tell you a personal example. My sister was a candidate for a deputy prosecutor at the Grand Court in Smederev, she didn't pass, the second one passed. You know me, if it were a politician and it was politics, and it's not my last name, now I'm gonna love Ivica, his last name is Milosevic, but I didn't try anything special, but I'm telling you, it's just that politicians wouldn't decide that. We all know they don't decide and we don't decide here. The problem is in the efficiency of the courts and it is a fact and this Mr. Majic if he talks something he should talk about why the courts are ineffective. Is it because he writes blogs, so he doesn't have time to judge or act like one? Or because the courts have become since they decide, I notice that nepotism by me is present, there are dads, moms, sons, one in appeals, one in basic, someone in the attorney's office, some prosecutor. It seems to me that these are the problems of the judiciary, not the influence of politics. We say division of power, the Anglo-Saxons say separate branches of power. The judicial authority is separate from both legislative and executive. If we have a problem with European integration, then the judiciary is guilty of the rule of law, then it is the judicial authority's fault, because everyone praises the legislative framework given by the Assembly, everyone gives it. Then through that legislative framework, if it is not good, I think that we from the legislative authority, through the judicial framework, I think that from the legislative authority, the executive authority has nothing to do with it, but we from the legislative authority have. We have to act. We must not allow Serbian citizens to wait for EU entry due to incompetent courts. So, for the next period, I am convinced that this government of the Republic of Serbia will end up under this new methodology of work and that, based on these clusters and chapters, we will speak even more positively next year and that Serbia will be very close to joining the EU, perhaps after or during the next election process in the EU. But that is important, it is the strategic goal and the most important thing Serbia can expect and for which Serbia should fight in the coming period. When we are part of the EU, we will be the strongest security in the Balkans and we will surely be far more respected in the world, and our citizens will live better too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2444	Thank you. We've got about an hour and 20 minutes until the time is up for the parliamentary group. I don't expect you to speak for an hour, but either way, just so we know about the vote. The vote will be after the debate is over. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2445	I thank the chairman for the recommendation. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, we had the opportunity yesterday to see on the basis of the discussion that Serbia has indeed shown one and the political, economic power because at the time of the largest pandemic that has affected all mankind we are now discussing the European Commission's report on our European path that we have drawn up in 2014. That report actually needs to tell us that we went that way this year when all countries changed their political relations and economic relations precisely because of the greatest pandemic impact not recorded since World War II. What's most important for us today is that the process of European integration is divided into some three pillars, where when we look at these pillars in fact economics, public administration reform and the third part of the rule of law, we can say with the number of open chapters, it means 18 out of 35, out of 60% that we are moving well, that we have no turning back which is very important, and that what we have achieved as results we can be proud of. Especially when we're talking about 2020, because I think it'll stay in the memory of all people, no matter what age they are and no matter where they live. When we talk about our Serbia, what was a dilemma for us, probably back in 2014, and even all these years until now, until 2020, is the speed and administrative form important for us to meet in this process of European integration or certain fundamental changes in order to really become a full member of the EU by the next day, but not as one that meets the mere decisions of all EU members, those strong states and the political and economic most stable or that we will be the one who will truly be shoulder to shoulder of all EU members, with respect for all the standards for which we have been defined as a country and simply do not suffer for it. Because what my colleagues have been saying is that understanding EU membership is the most important thing for us. I think that we as SNS after 2012, when we took responsibility for the country's leadership and when Mr. Aleksandar Vukic as prime minister launched the EU's negotiations in general, when relations in this way were open at all, not only when we talk about negotiating chapters, but also very difficult topics such as the Kosovo and Metohija issue, the relations between Belgrade and Pristina, have shown that much has changed. When I talk about public opinion, about the understanding of our citizens at all, about our relationship to EU membership, and whether it varies in terms of percentage support, it is safe, but it never fell below some level where citizens would say, no, we don't want to go to the EU and we don't want to be members of that community. On the other hand, when you look at what is most important to us, and these are relations with other countries, with the East, with the Russian Federation, which have very complicated relations with the EU, I will be extremely pragmatic when I talk about these relations, because when they have certain economic relations, the question of energy, they are capable of certain negotiations to support some joint strategic projects. So they have to make a deal about some things. We in those agreements used to be collateral damage, not just us, but the whole region when it came to South Stream. The moment they agree, so they say -- well here goes the Turkish flow or the Balkan, it is important that we as a small state are always present and that in such important projects that are in the interests of the Serbian citizens and because of the economy and because of the growth and development of our country at all, we are always present and ultimately we participate in this. And that's what Minister Selakovic and Minister Jadranka Joksimovic meant yesterday, we are no longer observers, but are active participants in the process. And whenever it takes some important issues for the Balkans to resolve, it still talks with Serbia, however, Serbia wonders. The process of European integration of course for all candidates of the country is always good when you become a member of the EU and great happiness and success, but the way to this is thorny and different, characteristic for each country in particular. It is difficult for us, because we believe that we are responsible politicians, above all towards our country and our citizens who choose us, and also responsible for the international organisations we work with and in which we participate, and because of this issue of the methodology that we have decided to accept in negotiations with the EU as a new way and the possibility of development in working with the European Commission, I believe that it is actually our strength. The power to show that we can do whatever you want. You want to change the rules of the game in the process of European integration, no problem, we'll do it. And why I think there's been a change in methodology, that's one of my own opinions, that's because Serbia has shown that indeed the leader of economic reforms has shown high scales when it comes to economics, because we've been in the surplus for four years, two years 2019 and 2018, ended up with 4.3% of GDP growth when we're even talking about our economy, implemented economic reforms, and the World Bank said in its analysis of the Balkans that Serbia even had 7% growth potential for 2020. My personal opinion is that we have gone too far from the region itself, because our foreign direct investment at the annual level has gone too far from the region itself, because our foreign direct investment at the annual level totaled the total amount of the entire Balkans, or all Balkan countries. Therefore, it had to be leveled somewhere when it comes to economic growth and development, competition is this -- the third cluster, as they call it, that Serbia is somewhere so few of these results are uniformly with the region, that the sensitivity to the rule of law is strengthened to give public administration reform its opinion in this report that unequal progress is an unequal one. What does "unequal" mean? Well, you can't, when you go into the reform process, it's evenly going to advance equally in intensity in all areas. Let it go before, let it go later, it is a question not only of us, not of the government, not only of the legislation, but of the citizens of Serbia as they accept all these changes. Because when they tell us here – you know, the legal procedure, the regulation was too urgent, then I ask you – how would we implement economic reforms and pass a large number of laws from 2014 to today, if we hadn't gone through an emergency procedure? We've had 600 acts a year, which are electoral functions when it comes to the consent and election of judges, which is the law, over 300 legal solutions. I want to tell you that we were too fast a train, in this process of European integration, we jumped a lot. When you jump a lot, then you have to be even. I think it's actually this model that we've now got that we need to go, which way, so we can just wait for them to go that way in our environment so that when we talk about joining the EU, we can simply talk about the whole region. Now, this report, when we talk about it and this Chapter -- economic development and competitiveness, has a part that concerns both economic governance and macroeconomic stability and the part that is the functioning of the financial market and labour markets. When you look at their reports in terms of what progress is, and what are the recommendations they see as flaws, you will see in fact why they want to decrease a little bit, and perhaps a little more reduces exactly the results Serbia has achieved in that part. First of all, when you see their eyes, they look at the section before the crown and after the crown. So that's where it's been divided into March the year 2020 and that part after that and what's said is that before the crown was this accelerated and huge growth, that simply this deficit, they don't mention anywhere that we've been the country that's had surplus for the last four years, but that those high growth rates have been mirrored in that first quarter by March of the month that showed that it's gone to 5%, but that the essence went to reduce that deficit. So, then most of the reports in this section are turned to this part, so the second half of the year, in which they give their particular criticism regarding the maintenance of public debt, as if we were at risk of public debt, which is not, otherwise all international organisations have given us their vision of the IMF, the World Bank and the IBRD, everyone who has been doing the prognosis, because they are interested in whether they will work for the guarantees with us, said that the public debt is not at all compromised. Then it's said that maybe that part is too optimistic when it comes to growth, so they're reducing it, so they say, you can grow to 5% and that maybe it's too unrealistic. And that the part about transparency, when it comes to working with public enterprises, is not enough, and to say that it is one of the most important criticisms that the state has reacted too much this year with financial resources. We have reacted in the right timely measures that only six months after us EU members, most developed, have responded when it comes to support both the private sector and all the citizens of their countries. As a result, we have, yesterday on the Committee on Budgets, Finance and the Control of Public Resources heard from the Governor of the National Bank, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic that Serbia will come out with the smallest GDP drop this year, and don't forget that France will go to 8%, Germany at minus 4%, when we talk about Spain mines 12.8% of GDP. Then, when we talk about the region, Macedonia will go to minus 5.4% and Montenegro at minus 12%. This is our reality. This is our environment in which we have a decline of minus 1% and we have a budget projected for next year to give high growth rates. So I'm saying that what their recommendations are in the financial section, the mitigation of the consequences of Kovid 19, has already been done through measures. Strengthen financial rules when it comes to financial policy and stability at all, so we've passed 42 laws here now by the end of this year precisely because of that. Then, public administration reform, I'm talking about paying classes. It's somewhere like the essence of solving all the problems. We have this problem to define how we're going to equate the ambulance driver and the hospital, his salary with the driver's salary in public enterprises and in the state administration. At this point, taking equalisation would only go to health care professionals. We can't do it right now and we're not simply in this situation that we want to deny someone the opportunity to earn their salary at the time of the greatest pandemic. One of the recommendations is to increase transparency in the public sector. We have had the opportunity to talk about this, and ultimately European Commission representatives have the right to look at the reports of all public enterprises at the APR and to see that according to these reports now at the moment when we have the biggest impact on the economy, as well as all countries, all public enterprises are coming out with positive financial reports. And all the problems they have are solved through a certain kind of bank guarantee and investment next year. In the end, they want to say that active measures should be implemented, and where more active measures will be taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in the end we get a report that speaks in general about economic development and competitiveness, which should actually be the best. In this report, we get that the degree has been reduced in this part, but legislative activity has been praised in this area at all, it is commended that public hearings have been held when it comes to the budget for the coming year and the presence of the Fiscal Council. Let me tell you, the presence of the Fiscal Council is mandatory according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and each time there has been a Fiscal Council when the debate is in the budget and every time and every time the rebalancing is, and every time they send us their estimates when it comes to certain projections for the next year and for the next two years. We have no problem talking to neither the Fiscal Council, nor any financial organization that really comes out with certain qualitatively-oriented reports, proposals to adopt. That is why I think that the conclusions that have been made, and I will repeat them, concerning the finding of the conclusions made in this report to welcome the efforts of the Government of Serbia to continue all those activities that are on this path of European integration for the opening of chapters, where we are ready to open further chapters, that the focus on these recommendations that we are talking about and that it takes constant coordination of all institutions involved in this process in fact shows that we are essentially showing a proactive role in the work, when the process of European integration is also about working with the Committee on European Integration and we support the work of not only the Government, but also the Ministry of European Integration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it is precisely the weight of the task on their back, and it is up to us to support this work. That's why in the voting day I'm going to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2446	I thank the People's Parliament, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. The next word is a member of the Committee on European Integration, MP Predrag Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2447	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Minister Selakovic, first of all, I want to thank you for taking two days off for this home and for, in fact, showing how important and important this is despite the fact that I know how much work you are doing and what obstacles you are facing, but this is really one example that everyone should follow, because it is talking about how and how the most legislative body of the Republic of Serbia should be respected and thank you for that. The European Union is the largest peace project on the old continent, although, in fact, it is not originally founded solely and predominantly for that purpose. The first purpose was actually to facilitate the flow of goods, and then capital, services, people, to eventually turn out that since it was formed as the Coal and Steel Community, until today until its reform and expansion, there have been no wars in that area. I wish there were other organizations like the Society of Nations, the UN that had succeeded, which were formed with that very intention, that they had succeeded and that they were coming out. The EU Member States have not fought each other. Just imagine and think about how many people died on the French-German border fighting for Azos, Lorena, how many tried to reach one, or another capital. If only the EU had succeeded, it would have already fulfilled its purpose fully. Serbia, of course, should be a member of the European Union, because the EU is one system of values that we seek and that is compatible with us. When I say with us, I mean with our legal and political culture. I'll remind you, in 1835, we passed the Constitution that was then considered, let's say in one Vienna, which is now, whether, one of the role models, as too liberal, and it is said that it must, in fact, be abolished both under pressure and by Vienna and other capitals that were then crucial in this space he was. We Serbs are democratic people, our liquids are democratic. Whenever we were killed, when we raised up the uprisings, we raised them with that goal not only to free ourselves from slavery, but also to create a democratic society. We had periods, we had phases when we were imposed on some totalitarian systems imported from the outside. Some of them, unfortunately, have lasted a few decades, but no matter what, the first time, when we were able to return to our democratic roots again. Just because the EU has this democratic impulse, I believe that we are very compatible and that we should be a full member of the EU. Are we going to be? It's not just up to us. By reading this report, I have concluded a few moments that I would like to comment on here and concentrate on which I found very interesting and very interesting. Since I am a graduate lawyer, the first thing that came into my eyes was what was said and written for reforming the justice system and for progress in the chapter dealing with this particular topic. To be honest, I'm glad that those who graded us concluded the same thing that I do. It says that there is a certain string, that is, the influence of individuals in politics and justice, and that is true, but it is not a one-way street, or street where it is constantly thought that executive and legislative authorities are putting pressure on courts. No, I personally witnessed in Strasbourg at a meeting when one of the judges of the Court of Appeals mentioned here in Belgrade performed as an opposition activist. He performed as an opposition political activist. Now I'm asking you, I'm asking everyone here in the O.R., I'm asking all the citizens who are watching this, regardless of the political afiliatry, is it possible and is it realistic to expect this judge to be objective in some procedure tomorrow when he judges a progressive? He who writes books, the one who writes blogs, the one who goes public, goes into television formats in which he deals only and exclusively with Alexander Vukic as if there was some sort of obsession with this man at this judge. Any of the non-members, not the officials, but only the SNS supporters, as they say are credentials, sandwichers, if he ever does, can anyone from Serbia and the EU say he will be objective to the end? I'm afraid not. It's a good thing that string is mentioned, and I'm sure those who wrote that report thought the same thing. It may not have been directed, but as they say, politically correct, to write it all the way, but it's good to mention it. Unfortunately, some judges, although I think that the vast majority of judges and prosecutors are doing their job very responsibly, that they are educated, moral, honest people, but unfortunately there are not a small number of judges and prosecutors who feel that they are independent in their activities from the legislative and executive branch of government, it also means that they are irresponsible not only to these branches of government but to society at all. Then you are in a paradoxical situation, even if you criticise a judicial verdict, you are charged with pressure on the judiciary independently. I'm sorry, but each of us needs to be evaluated and everyone's work should be evaluated. The work of MPs is appreciated in the elections, if they have not worked adequately, you will not be re-elected in quality. Similarly, if they have not worked adequately, the representatives of the legislative authority will not choose them again or be relieved of those duties. And who's guarding the guards? It's an old saying from the Roman period. Who's guarding the guards? Who's guarding the judges? Who controls the judges? They control themselves, the closed system. It's the first time we've picked them and nothing else. Since then, we have a closed circle, they choose themselves, they set themselves up, they promote themselves. Is it exactly a system that can be called, as they say in English law – the system of control and balance? I don't think so. I'm not sure. Imagine if we had a situation like we have in France that the president of the state here puts judges. Let's make it formal. It's France. We are talking about a state that is the cradle of modern democracy and liberalism. We all look up to her. These are some anomalies that may be for a wider social controversy. I'd just stop at what I'm glad to see, obviously, that even those who watch us on the side see that there are certain classes and caste that are trying to deal with politics in one unprincipled way. Look, everyone can have their own political opinion, let them deal with both the judiciary and the prosecution. It's not a dispute. He can't muddle the country. Unfortunately, I witnessed such an event abroad. I've been politically defined since I've known about myself and I've been in opposition, as an activist, never happened to me to go abroad and speak against my country, ever. Whatever Boris Tadic was, I didn't mean to speak ill of my country in front of strangers at the time. They do it because they think that the worse Serbia, the worse Vucicu will be, and then they will be better off and then they will come to power with someone else's decree, probably because they do not have citizens' support. Speaking of which, I have noticed a second moment in the report relating to the composition of this Parliament and the past elections. I am pleased to mention that we have never again women in this House. I welcome that. I think there should be more ladies here. The more ladies, the less wars. It's been shown through history. The more ladies in politics, first of all, there are exceptions of course. It is good that we have 40 percent and more ladies in this House and what is mentioned. It would be even better if it was commended. The fact is we have never again representatives of national minorities, ethnic communities here in parliament. The more we have two vice presidents of this House calling on this House to come from minority nations. If I'm not mistaken, we've had three vice-presidents from the minority nations in the history of our parliamentaryism so far. In 30 years, three, only in one convex two. It's really one progress, one shift that's good that's been seen in that report, and I'd like it to be underlined as something that's positive and something that's good liquid. It is often transferred to this assembly of parliament that it is uniform. It's the will of the people. The people's will was such that in the electoral system that goes hand in hand to the opposition, because the censorship was downgraded, from 5% to 3% do not vote those who ran, who failed to qualify for this assembly of parliament. For those who boycotted the election, they couldn't even vote. We now see that those who have boycotted the elections repent of that decision and blame the authorities for having made the wrong political decision. Look, the boycott of the election is one legitimate political option, but then you have consequences for it. It is immature to criticise the government for your own political harakiri. Although harakiri is an honorable procedure. This was one pointless procedure. Now you blame those who have qualified and received support from citizens in the elections. In the middle of the pandemic election, more people came out than in many EU Member States. And to the old EU members. It's important to underline and important to notice. Each EU report should be carefully examined. To respect what has been determined, it should be recognised that it is beneficial for our citizens, because as Minister Selakovic also gave a fine underline yesterday, only Serbia has no alternative. On the other hand, what we believe to be critical of that report is to criticize. That's not controversial. I think it's precisely European democratic fluid, to debate, to talk in homes like this. At all kinds of forums. That's something that's plus. The third paragraph, since I deal with the analysis of geopolitical flows as a priority, which I had to study and mention here is the foreign policy of the Serbian state. The state of Serbia will be obliged to bring its foreign policy fully into line with the EU once it becomes its full member. I believe and I will not say if, but when we become one. So I believe we'll become. When we become that, and I underline it and repeat it, it's not just up to us, we'll talk about it. Now I have noticed one interesting thing, which is that it is found in this report, in one sentence, in the same view, that the state of Serbia has developed bilateral co-operation with the Russian Federation, China and the United States. I then concluded that it was actually something to be viewed as commendable and affirmative. Think about whether someone in the EU would put in the same position the Russian Federation, China and America, if they didn't think that each of these items was private to Serbia, positive and that Serbia as a sovereign state had the right to do so. America is an EU strategic partner and will only be after Joe Biden's inauguration on January 20th, when the partnership is restored. I don't think anyone in the same position would actually put a state of factors and a member, of a powerful alliance, of this strategic partnership, of America and of that state for which he would possibly resent our partnership. Why would they blame us? In fact, Serbia is trying to co-operate with China, trying to come to that level of co-operation already existing by EU member states with the same China. We have made a lot of progress in this field in recent years, but we are still very far from other countries, EU Member States and when you compare their figures and their trades with China without talking about Germany, France. See Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania at the very end of the line, how much they co-operate with China. It is all these co-operation initiatives with China that have just come to us from the EU, from Poland, Bucharest, all these initiatives, the Silk Road, that all came from the EU. We have joined this precisely because we are on the European path, so that our co-operation, economic and every other one with China, obviously and in Brussels, is seen as something that is plus and something that is positive and I would welcome it here, because it is a reasonable and rational policy of our European partners. I'll conclude something I personally experienced. I was the project manager of one cross-border co-operation project Serbia-Hungarian, and I was still on another project and I saw working on these projects, in fact, how you can convince the citizens of Serbia, which is why European integration is important to us. To be honest, a lot of money was spent, especially by 2012, in all these projects that existed back then on something called raising awareness. It comes down to the organization of events involving twenty people of the same mind, where money is spent on catering, where someone pulls out a certain petty tsar and eventually everyone breaks up, takes pictures and photographs, sends a report to their supervisor and says, "We did our job." Give us the money you need to refund." It's not a policy, and you can't bring it that close to citizens, which is why European integration is important, because of that, citizens have absolutely nothing. But I took part in this, since I ran this project and I was very proud of it, the Agrino project when we were getting plastics that were digitized in Ruma, Futoga, Vrsac, I saw how many citizens, students of these agricultural high schools, how much it means to them when they see one plastic that she bought them with 80% of EU money. Then you can tell them, see what makes the EU important to you. That's what your students understand, and that's what farmers understand. I appeal to our European partners in a way that, even in the coming periods, in the next calls as much money as possible, separates them for strategic projects and defines what they will all benefit from and what will remain after these projects, and not just what is called raising awareness, because consciousness is actually best raised by adequate and concrete works, and an example of such work is given to us by President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2448	I thank Parliamentarian Predrag Rajic. The next member of the Committee on European Integration, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2449	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Minister Selakovic, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia who follow our work, much has been said yesterday and today about this report to the last European Commission, six months, as well as the conclusions proposed by the group of Members of the Committee on European Integration Parliament. What is doubtless is that this latest report showed that Serbia is firmly committed to the process of joining European integration and necessary reforms. I personally see these proposed conclusions as an invitation to Serbia's even more energetic co-operation with our European partners with the goal of further approaching Serbia's EU membership. The report, therefore, clearly shows, what is undoubtedly several times yesterday and today and said, there is no reverse of Serbia in any particular area, despite the fact that the previous government has worked under difficult circumstances, both political and economic and health reasons for the pandemic, but also because of the boycott of institutions, due to violent protests by the opposition and regular parliamentary elections. It is clear that this European Commission report was written in a new methodology, according to a new methodology Serbia accepted and, as Minister Jadranka Joksimovic pointed out yesterday, which is linked today in six clusters. It is also more than clear that the EU Member States participated in writing this report in a new methodology, which is unstimulative for us and that the state encourages Serbia in further work and implementation of reforms, but regrettable that a political intergovernmental conference at the highest level at which Serbia would discuss and agree on the implementation of the new methodology with the participation of Serbia. Of course, we understand the objective circumstances facing the whole world, meaning pandemics, but also Bregzita and budgeting in the EU, and will certainly be in the coming period of opportunity to talk about it at the highest level. This does not mean that we here today in this debate and our citizens and our European partners should not say that Serbia wants to be proactive in its EU accession, that it wants to be even more effective in reforms. When we talk about our efficiency in reforms, I must say that the state of Serbia has taken certain activities and achieved certain results immediately after 6 October when this report was presented and immediately after it has established its institutions, hence the new assembly of parliament and the new government. In the previous assembly of parliament, we have corrected most of the European Commission's objections. We continued to do so in this assembly of parliament with the abolition of emergency procedures, and for the sake of Serbian citizens, I must say that EU members also have urgent procedures in their parliaments, but at a level of up to 10%. So we're trying to have that level, too. So, we've doubled the working time for adoption of the budget, we'll double safely and in the next period for many other laws, hold committee sessions outside parliament's seat, public hearings. The new government has already addressed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the constitutional amendments that have been assessed very high by the European Commission and whose adoption we expect to adopt in the spring in our parliament. We have, then, a complete implementation plan for the first cluster, for the rule of law. The government of the Republic of Serbia has prepared a media strategy, prepared an Action Plan, prepared a work group proposal to deal with the safety and protection of journalists. We adopted the Code of Conduct, GRECO recommendations are shown in a public and transparent way. I expect that after Christmas on the Julian calendar, inter-party talks will continue, although I must say that in previous talks everything the opposition has asked for, everything is fulfilled. Nevertheless, part of the opposition did not go to the elections, however, the opposition in our European partners calls Serbia for freedom of the media, and the extraparliamentary opposition is represented on social networks and in the media more than ever, because there are those of us who were the opposition and who have witnessed the situation in the media in Serbia from 2008 to 2012. I believe that our European partners are worth it in the right way. I also really believe that all of this, which we have done specifically and specifically done, will be presented in the first months after this report in some subsequent report. Serbia is a serious candidate, we have serious functional institutions. All the things we do when it comes to European integration we do for us, we do for our citizens. We've shown efficiency in this pandemic fight. We showed economic stability. I have to say, we weren't on anybody's cargo. We have shown solidarity for countries in the region with EU countries, which I find very important. We're doing great with the migrant crisis. The issue of human rights, the issue of gender equality, the issue of the position of national minorities is not a declarative issue in Serbia. This shows the fact that we adopted the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Children among the first countries and much of this Convention. We're one of the 10 countries in the world by the gender-sensitive government. When it comes to the position of national minorities, all our laws are in line with European laws, all 26 national minorities enjoy rights in Serbia. I would and would be happy if the Serb national minority in the region and EU countries had the same rights that national minorities have in Serbia. Some of the colleagues mentioned Slovenia yesterday, and I will mention that Serbia does not have its national minority in Bulgaria as a member of the EU, besides Slovenia, neither in Albania. A lot of colleagues here talked about environmentalism. Everything they said was like that. We'll solve our environmental issues mostly once we open a cluster of environmental issues. But I must mention that on 10 November 2020, Prime Minister Brnabic signed the Green Agenda for the Western Balkans and that just now the Green Parliamentary Group, as an informal group in this parliament, which was first established in the region, launched an online conference of co-operation with regional counterparts on the implementation of the Green Agenda. We talked to colleagues from northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, just what it is that our parliaments should do first when it comes to implementing the Green Agenda. The path of economic development and regional co-operation is the best way to strengthen stability and speed up accession to the European integration process. I think Mali Schengen is the best example of stability and mutual co-operation of the Western Balkans. Of course, Serbia wants all countries in the region to move forward towards the EU, but I must say that Albania and Northern Macedonia are not approved for negotiations, that Northern Macedonia has changed even its name, that Albania has received additional requirements, although it has already brought foreign policy into line with the EU. So, these negotiations with the EU, led by Serbia, are not easy at all, they are complex. I think we need to be aware of that. At the end of my presentation, I would like to say how much the EU was the largest investor in Serbia. I have information from the EU info site. In the last 10 years, by 24 April 2020, the EU invested 15.4 billion in direct foreign investment in Serbia. Only 63,000 citizens and Serbian citizens work in Serbia in German companies, 25,000 citizens and citizens work in 500 Italian companies that are open here, but therefore I ask the EU, in fact, I suggest that they open the door more for our successful companies from here. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, when it comes to it, is struggling and I want to support them on this occasion to continue the fight. We will never forget how much EU has helped Serbia since the flood. So 170m euros was then aid, they also gave 600m euros, which is not a small aid for migration. In March this year, she offered Serbia 93m euros to fight Kovid-19. I must point out that for the Western Balkan countries, the seven-year budget envisions 12.5 billion euros. Although it is a large sum of money provided for Western Balkan countries, full EU integration still brings significant benefits, and I will compare that with the funds that Croatia received, as the youngest full member of the EU, thus almost double that of all Western Balkan countries, 22 billion euros. So, the EU can always count on Serbia, as it has always calculated in its history, and it is up to us to implement reforms as soon as possible and become a full member. In the voting day, I will support the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2450	I thank the People's MP Dubravka Filipovski. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2451	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm sorry the president of the assembly gets out, but either way, it's nice to work with you, I don't object. However, in the light of the fact that the President of the Assembly as one of the longest, most experienced, government participants, who has been doing this job since 2012, and in 2014, with the SNS, may have been able to confirm these claims that I am going to say, that historic breakthroughs in Serbia happened in the period from 2012, i.e. from 2014 to today. These historical matters and events are also related to the executive power and legislative authority, but also to the affairs of the president of the state. These political affairs will contribute to Serbia, in addition to providing a much better standard for its citizens and one serious economic progress, for Serbia to position itself on the political agenda as one of the important, above all, regional leaders, and its reputation will begin to be recognised in both EU countries, but later in the world. Just one historic event, yesterday and today here in this legislative body, for the first time we have the opportunity to consider these conclusions and a report like this, and I hope that certainly in some future report and this present event will be found as something positive between the two reports, and be, of course, identified as one serious progress. The report itself shows Serbia's serious commitment, politically above all, and for the path towards that community of peoples who are making the EU today, and in spite of being a serious political commitment, it will be that it is one logical trail of events, first of all, if we take into account the economic and trade between us and the EU, if we take into account, the geographical position of Serbia, but also the values of the heritage of Serbian society. In general, through history of many of these and such values yesterday Mr. Selakovic spoke, I will not go back. Peace itself is one of the most important values that Serbian society has through history. Perhaps it was only freedom that could be put in line with that value, when it comes to Serbian society, and only when it was questionable, we might have been forced to define ourselves for one of those two. Freedom is something we enjoy today, thanks, first of all, to events in the past, when our ancestors have acquired what we enjoy together today with all the people who, apart from the Serbian people, live in Serbia. Independence is something we are jealous of, primarily in making some of the most important political decisions. Peace is what is most important to us today. I am pleased to see that in this report which today is ahead of us, Serbia is recognised as one, as they said, active participant in regional co-operation and as a participant who cultivates good bilateral relations with all other countries in the environment. We're proud of this finding. What is she? It is, in fact, one proof of a serious foreign policy that is leading, above all, the president of the state today, which has on one hand a note of assistance and support, first of all, for our country's compatriots, who has never been historically on this level, and on the other hand, has a note that shows respect for Serbia, when it comes to constitutional and legal order of all those countries in the region in which our Serb community lives today. Of course, I also mean respect for international agreements, which you assume is the most important Dayton Agreement, whose Serbia today is a signator. It is a great pleasure, above all, as an MP and as a citizen of Serbia, to be recognized today in a report ahead of us. In itself, this report could be said to be the answer to those malicious comments that come to this and that kind of policy that, above all, is being promoted by the president of the state. Look out, please, today are the biggest critics and such policies, support for our people in the region and policies to preserve stability in the region not the countries in the region, not their authorities, are today the main critics of the opposition in Serbia, which, namely, deliberately or accidentally, are led by Dragan Gilas. I think that in itself today is talking about the kind of policy that is opposed to what is represented today by the president of the state. All of this is clearly recognized in this report. Finally, such a policy will certainly deserve great respect for this respected home, but most importantly, both the peoples of Serbia and the region. I will take the opportunity, there has been an important event tonight for our people in general, and especially for our people living in Montenegro. Tonight, parliament in Podgorica and our colleagues changed the Law on freedom of religion. It is a big issue that has burdened the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Serb community that lives in Montenegro, but frankly, our entire people in the Balkans. A good one as stability is being built in the Balkans, which Serbia, in any case, supports. I want to take the opportunity to congratulate this and officially, first of all, our 41 colleagues in the Podgorica Parliament and to thank them and to tell them that this is the right way to build co-operation and within the very community living in Montenegro, but certainly co-operation with the Republic of Serbia and other communities in the region. Of course, I will support the conclusion at the end of today. I guess there'll be a vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2452	Thank you. Just to mention that on January 21st 2014, it was the First Intergovernmental Conference, when the Republic of Serbia began negotiations with the EU and the current president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was present as Prime Minister at the time. The word has a folk letter from Nevenka Kostadinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2453	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a Progress Report in the EU and a new methodology for strengthening Serbia's EU accession process. The state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia remain on the European path, because they are committed to European values, whose achievement requires strengthening and strengthening of the entire society, and the benefits of achieving European goals are more effective in functioning the system in favour of Serbian citizens in order to improve their lives, in order to achieve a higher standard. The European Union is Serbia's most important partner. With the EU, we have 65% of the trade in goods, 70% of our investment is coming right from the European Union. In addition, Serbia is the largest recipient of the European Union donation and the country's first partner in support of development and ongoing reforms. Long-term financial assistance has been spent on programmes and projects that supported concrete reforms and contributed to the well-being of citizens in many areas. Negotiations with the EU began in 2014, so six years ago, and this continuity continues today. From the very beginning, the government has formed the European Integration Ministry as a full and separate institution, which confirms full commitment to the pro-European pathway. EU membership brings benefits to all, both people in large cities and those living in small towns, in the country, in border areas and in the devastated, where I come from. Reform processes are difficult, very often and painful, but always have a positive effect, both for economic prosperity, the continuity of peace, understanding and solidarity among countries that share the same values. These processes are of great importance to the progress of border posts, as they provide a chance to co-operate and connect people on both sides of the border, which solves common problems. As the report shows, there is progress in all areas. Of course, somewhere smaller, somewhere more. We are witnessing that we live in a very challenging period. The year after us has been full of challenges, both for Serbia and for the EU. The report shows that the best results are achieved in the area of the economy, as economic stability is the basis for any progress. The economy is the branch we're all sitting on. As far as the rule of law is concerned, there is progress, which confirms Serbia's full commitment to European values. As someone who comes from the environment in which members of the Bulgarian national minority, who I belong, live, I will refer to the rights of national minorities living in the Republic of Serbia. The rights of national minorities are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to education in the native language, culture and tradition of national minorities, the right to inform in the languages of national minorities and the official use of their language and letters. For the sake of monitoring and exercising those rights, national councils have been formed in Serbia as autonomous institutions, which have jurisdiction in the fields of education, culture, information and official use of the mother tongue. National minority councils are chosen by members of national minorities and their task is to take care of the above areas, to take particular care of implementation and implementation of them. The composition of national councils and the quality of their work is very important for the successful exercise of minority rights, especially in areas where national councils have jurisdiction. As for the Bulgarian national minority, I can say that the Bulgarian national minority is one of the most loyal in the state of Serbia and that their constitutionally guaranteed rights are respected. As for information, the Bulgarian national minority has media that inform in Bulgarian. The official use of native language is applied uninterruptedly in all institutions, and our Bulgarian language is equal to other languages. In primary and secondary schools, we have classes in which education is conducted entirely in Bulgarian, so that our children can attend classes in their native language. I note that there have been problems with textbooks before, however, the problem has been resolved over time. Members of the Bulgarian national minority are most plagued by economic problems, as well as by most Serbian citizens, because they are unfortunately concentrated in the most underdeveloped part of Serbia, but precisely economic empowerment and the pro-European pathway of the Serbian state will help solve these problems. It is precisely the EU accession process and cross-border co-operation projects that provide a chance for undeveloped areas to address infrastructure and other problems, to create conditions for raising the economy, to create new places and thus to keep people in those areas, of course, from both sides of the border. I stress that success in cross-border projects is very important and the role of local self-government itself, which best knows the problems of the local and sets priorities for solving these problems. The government recently formed the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Dialogue as an institution that will deal with minority issues, as well as the Ministry of Undeveloped Areas, which also confirms its commitment to resolving these problems. All this says that the state of Serbia is equally taking care of all its citizens, regardless of their nationality. The very fact that Serbia remains on the European path not because it has to but because it wants to, because it is good for all Serbian citizens, confirms its readiness to deal with all the challenges, to go through reforms that will strengthen society and allow a better life and a better future for every citizen of it, regardless of their ethical, religious, cultural, national and any other belonging. Let us not forget that we cannot wait for this improvement to come to us as a gift by entering the EU on its own, no one will give us that improvement or give us a gift. We simply must work on changes, on reforms, on speeding up awareness of European values, on building a society that will give equal opportunity to all its citizens. Dearly respected colleagues, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have had enough suffering and suffering in the past in the Balkans. Too many tears and blood spilled. Too many lives have been extinguished for the difference between us, for conquering territories and drawing borders. Now comes the time when we have to give a hand of reconciliation, to respect each other, for the sake of diversity, to erase borders, to build good neighbourly relations, to create conditions for our generations to live in these places that were once killed. All of this can only be done if we stay on the European path and that is why Serbia has no alternative in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2454	I thank the People's Parliament of Nevenka Kostadin's. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2455	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, discusses the proposal for a European Commission's 2020 report on the Republic of Serbia, which concerns Serbia's accession to the EU. Given that Serbia's EU membership is one of our key strategic objectives, and given that these annual reports are very important for our European integration process, one group of MPs addressed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the proposal for a conclusion on the European Commission's 2020 Report on the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is conducting a very complex process of Serbia's EU accession thoroughly and responsibly, the whole process of European integration. It is very important to stress that the EU accession process is a very complex political process for each candidate country. The start of accession negotiations with the EU, at this very political level, was launched in 2014 at the first intergovernmental conference in Brussels, and in 2017 we established the European Integration Ministry to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the already existing European Integration Office. In this way, we gave an additional legislative and institutional framework in order to improve our entire process of Serbia's EU accession. Since 2018, Serbia has signed more bilateral and more multilateral agreements with Member States, with potential candidates, but also with EU accession candidates to improve its position in the European integration process and to share some knowledge and experience with other countries. We have opened 18 of the 35 negotiating chapters, two have temporarily closed, and we have also handed over five negotiating positions for five new chapters, and two are closing. In 2019, I must say, we were the only ones in the Western Balkans who opened two new negotiating chapters, which is a very important shift in this area. What's most important is that a new cluster methodology has been accepted. This new cluster methodology implies the grouping of negotiating chapters in certain sectors. In particular, we have six sectors, i.e. six areas, as well as Chapters 34 and 35, which are specific chapters. It is very important to stress that there is no setback in the process of European integration when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, and we have made very clear once in the good part of these negotiating chapters, and this is very important, because I must stress that our Government is the Republic of Serbia and our other institutions, that they have worked in very complex conditions of the Kovida-19 virus pandemic, and we have made progress in all fields again. I am using this opportunity to call on the European Commission as a member of the "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children" parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to shape this new methodology as soon as possible and to speed up our process of European integration, as well as to adequately valorize all our successful, all of our results that we have achieved. The most important chapters concerning all European integration are Chapters 23 and 24, which are normally first opened and closed. It concerns the rule of law, basic human freedoms and security. When it comes to Chapter 23, we've made one good progress. The good indicators of this progress are, in fact, an increasing number of resolved court disputes, taking steps towards strengthening and independence of various control bodies, control agencies and institutions in the Republic of Serbia, as well as improving the position of national minorities, for which we are particularly praised. The important element of this Chapter is also the fight against corruption and organised crime, which is one of the key policies of our Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Alexander Vukic. As for Chapter 24, which speaks of security, we have growing co-operation with European institutions dealing with this problem, such as Eurostat, Europol, CEPOL, as well as Frontex. I must say, in 2019, we were removed from the gray FATF list. The FATF represents one joint action at the interstate dealing with the problem, means money laundering and terrorist financing, i.e. preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. Another important element of our accession to the European Union is the IPA Funds. The IPA funds represent a non-refundable pre-accession financial instrument that is available to candidate countries, as well as countries that are potential candidates for entry into the European Union. Our country has also been allocated an amount of around 1.5 billion euros for capital projects from 2014 to 2020. It is important to stress that the European Union is our largest external trade partner. We have achieved the best results when it comes to these economic reforms, as the report itself says. And the support of all these economic reforms is provided by our citizens, more than two-thirds of our citizens, and based on our analysis, which is an analysis of the European Integration Ministry, which is based on formulae already used in the European Union – the euro barometer. Also, many European officials such as Mr. Lajcak, Mr. McCallister, Mr. Borelj, Mr. Varhelj, as well as the head of the European Union delegation to Serbia, Mr. Fabrizio, are constantly praising our account, at the expense of our European integration. We have recently adopted the Code of Conduct of People's Rules of Procedure which, in accordance with all the currents and norms of the European Union, are mainly values such as freedom of the media, freedom of speech, the fight against corruption, and the protection of all human rights. What is most important is that our citizens have recognised that we are making progress in all fields, especially in the field of economy, security, health, economy, international relations, but also in European integration, all thanks to President Alexander Vukic. We are committed to respecting the key values of norms and fluids of the European Union, but we are certainly leading our sovereign and independent Serbian policy and we will also develop stronger relations, even stronger relations with countries in the region, but also with the US and Russia, both with China and other interested countries, as well as with other relevant international institutions and international organisations. We believe in Serbia's success, we believe in Serbia's progress, and we are already the fastest growing economy in the Western Balkans area. According to IMF projections over the next two years, we will have the highest growth rates in Europe. We have to work harder, we have to work harder to achieve even better results. Remember, we're not bad at anything else. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2456	I thank the People's MP, Luke Kebari. Just to remind you that what you said about asking the European Commission to establish a new methodology is one of the amendments submitted by distinguished counterpart Nemanja Joksimovic and accepted by the promoter. Let's keep going. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2457	Dear President Selakovic, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia who look at us, of course I absolutely support European integration and a lot of what is stated in the report that is ahead of us, but what I am particularly looking forward to is this progress on Chapters 23 and 24. Our guest today, our Minister Selakovic, knows perfectly what the situation took place in the judiciary in 2012 when he took responsibility for the then Ministry of Justice and State Administration. In 2012, to remind you, we were caught by the devastation of justice and the rule of crime and corruption. Ours, then, Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, together with the Serbian government and the first Deputy Prime Minister, launched three very important strategies. In 2012, a strategy for reforming the judiciary, a strategy for reforming the state administration and a strategy for combating corruption. Two of those three strategies have made a huge contribution that we today have made serious progress regarding Chapters 23 and 24. Meanwhile, an action plan has also been established and we have received a strategy to fight corruption, the higher responsibilities of individual ministries, the established special departments, the results year by year in both the judiciary and corruption. It was not easy for Minister Selakovic or Minister Nelli Kuburovic, and it is not easy for the current minister of justice, Mrs Maja Popovic, who, at this time, wants all the happiness in further work and that she also contributes to the management of even a little light resort. Back in 2012, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and all their partners in power made a serious contribution to Chapters 23 and 24, but to do nothing, to rule crime and corruption and to have a terrible situation in the Serbian judiciary. I'm not saying that today is a great situation in the judiciary, but we have to admit here that we have serious results. Serbia is slowly ruled by justice. The latest results of the Serbian government, and especially since President Aleksandar Vukic has declared war on the mafia, we have had serious results in recent weeks and as regards the fight against crime and corruption. Serbia is no longer a haven for drug dealers, crime and corruption. Serbia is a haven for justice. Serbia is a haven for the way of European integration and for all that and what it said yesterday at the annual press conference, our president and leader, Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is now a state of peace and stability, Serbia is the best economy in Europe, which also confirms this report, and now that it is a difficult fight for citizens' health and the fight against the crown of the virus. In Serbia, it rises from month to month, year to year, the standard of living for all citizens. It is just a confirmation of one serious policy, one policy of European integration and one policy of peace and stability. This is why all of this is good, as stated in the Report on Chapters 23 and 24. My colleagues have spoken far more about other chapters, and for me, the basis and development of our country and economy is precisely this effective fight against crime and corruption, the fight for the independent judiciary that we have and the fight for peace and stability. Therefore, of course I will vote for the adoption of this report, and in the end I would just like to say that in the next 2021 and our President Aleksandr Vukic and our Government of Serbia and our Minister Selakovic and all of you, dear MPs and citizens of Serbia, I want everything best for you and your families in the coming years, and so that we can have a strong and stable Serbia for the coming years of our country, as it confirms this report, should be led by our President Aleksandar Vukic. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2458	I thank the Messenger of the people. Next on the list is counterpart Jelena Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2459	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, Mr Selakovic, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, joining and joining the EU is a strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia based on a broad social and political consensus. Serbia, on its way through the EU, certainly represents a path towards a more modern country where Serbia has already raised the scale of a stable democracy and a stable economy today. Serbia is now going through peace and development, which is certainly a strategic framework and a basis for stability throughout the region. The state of Serbia is today working to strengthen and regulate its country, creating the most favourable conditions for foreign investment in this part of Europe. The European Council opened 18 of the 35 chapters with Serbia's membership bid as early as 2012, and when the negotiations started in 2014, Serbia has opened up 18 of the 35 chapters since then. But what we must point out, for this period that we think has been more than six years, is that we have made progress through reforms in all segments of our society. What we must especially point out is that Serbia today has five fully prepared chapters ready for opening, which means that Serbia has also worked on its other frameworks. Today, after six years of conducting this kind of EU negotiations, we have witnessed that the EU has decided to open a completely new methodology for Serbia, a methodology consisting in one cluster form, and six clusters have been identified for Serbia and Serbia has accepted this new methodology, which was adopted in principle by the EU, or the European Commission. But what we must stress is that for the first time in history, Serbia will have the opportunity to build through co-operation with the EU and the European Commission and the foundations of a new methodology that hopefully, by implementing reforms, will be able to speed up the process of Serbia's Eurointegration and, on the other hand, create clear paths and pathways for other countries that are on the European path. If we look at the Three Cluster, which includes competitiveness, which includes social inclusion and economic growth, which includes eight negotiating chapters, of which Serbia has opened as many as five and closed temporarily two, which are Chapter 25 relating to science and research and Chapter 26 concerning education and culture, we cannot all agree that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made an extraordinary effort and commitment to implementing measures and implementing reforms particularly in the area of economics and monetary policy. These results today presented a model of one country's macroeconomic stability that can be a model for other countries in Europe. If we are talking about the results made by the Republic of Serbia for the last five years, especially in the area of fiscal consolidation, we can freely point out that the Republic of Serbia is a leader not only in the Western Balkans, but also among the most developed European countries in terms of economic growth, in terms of the fight against the crown of the virus, in terms of the fiscal deficit, and also if we look at the less and medium-developed countries of Europe, we can freely say that the Republic of Serbia is a leader in the public debt rate, as well as the level of GDP. We must point out that in the first seven months of 2020, Serbia had 1.6 billion euros in foreign investment, representing 60% of total foreign investment in the entire Western Balkans. With policy and such results, Serbia has definitely shown how determined and ready it is to implement reforms in all its segments of its society, how ready it is to stay on the EU path. Serbia has shown with such responsible work and policy that it can cope with its results with the most developed countries of Europe, and it has also shown that it can successfully fight the crown of the virus, that it can preserve its health system and build hospitals as soon as possible, and that Serbia has also shown that it can help others when it has done so by sending medical aid planes to Italy when needed. With its responsible policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia has shown that not only is it responsible for its country, for all its citizens, for its sovereignty and integrity, but that even at the time of the world's greatest economic crisis when all countries stagnate, when all countries fall, Serbia can work, build, create, grow and develop. The aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to implement all reforms crucial to Serbia's progress towards the EU by 2024, followed by Serbia's actual accession to the EU. Is that gonna happen? It is certainly a political decision, but what we must today point out is that through all these reforms that Serbia is carrying out on the European path what remains for all of us, which remains for the state of Serbia, all its citizens, our children and our future is a strong and stable state of Serbia, a country in which all citizens have equal opportunities, equal rights, a country whose economy is growing and a country that has significantly improved the standard of living of all its citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia will seek and focus and in the coming period to deal with the implementation of key reforms such as the rule of law, such as the public administration, such as the Green Agenda, and on this European path we will continue. Finally, I will quote the words of our President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic – we are on a European path and we will continue to fight to speed up European integration, but we will not give up the rights and opinions to tell the truth and we are proud that Serbia today is an independent state that independently makes decisions for the better life of all Serbian citizens. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2460	I thank my colleague. Next is Milan Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2461	Dear President, honourable Minister Selakovic, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, stands before us today a report on Serbia's progress for 2020, and as an SNS MP, I must point out that I will support this report, but as a representative of the Serbs with KIM, I must present a few facts and problems, such as freedom of movement, freedom of speech and the right to the fundamental human rights of the Serbs at KIM. The assessment that Serbia has yet to make more efforts is likely due to the inability to look at the situation on the ground, so I would like to remind that Serbia has fulfilled all commitments made to the Brussels Agreement, and that it has been seven years, 92 months, 401 weeks since the commitment of the Serb municipality community. It is 2,810 that Pristina has taken over the obligation to form a community of Serb municipalities that accounts for 40% of the Brussels Agreement. It's 2,810 days as so-called. authorities in Pristina have taken a commitment that absolutely means the survival and survival of the Serb people in KIM. Instead of the reconciliation process, we on the ground by the Pristina authorities have constant scandalous decisions aimed at increasing the pressure on the remaining Serb population, so we are witnessing more than 70 attacks per year on Serbs and their property, and this phenomenon is more frequent than raising war crimes indictments to the KLA wartime commanders, so in the municipality of Gracanica, Kišnica, a group of Albanians was attacked. At that point, they also tried to burn Milos Oblic's monument in Gracanica and the Serbian flag in Gracanica. Just a few days ago, basic school in Vitina was stoned, and the Jovanovic family facility was burned in Vitina as well. Here, this morning we received information that for the seventh time, the home of returnees Dragan Repanović was robbed and robbed in the town of Osojana. That's the seventh time exactly because the last six times no one's been punished. One of the methods used by Pristina authorities is mounted war crimes trials, which are conducted primarily on Serb returnees to KIM, according to the already tried mechanism. Namely, when a family decides and dares to return to KIM upon arrival, phantom witnesses appear who are some imaginary war crimes committed by definition by one of the members of that family. The accused, without any evidence, is arrested and held in custody, is held in custody without trial, and even if a trial occurs in an accelerated trial without any evidence and witnesses are sentenced to imprisonment. The last in a series of such events is Nenad Arsic, who was sentenced to six years in prison without any single evidence and without one single witness. Also, Mr. Svetomir Bacevic, who was arrested just a few days ago in the vicinity of Peci, when he and his family wanted to return to the family estate, was arrested on charges of committing some kind of war crime. I would remind you only that it was a man who was a postman before the war on KIM, who was freed from military service because of health problems. And behold, the miracles of the witness against him is the born brother of the infamous Agim Ceku. Mr. Bacevic went back to Pec for years, stayed back in Peća for years, visited his relatives, visited his Serbian friends, his Albanian friends, and then no one mentioned the war crime in which he participated or in which he was an actor. And, look at the wonders, when he dared to return to his usurped estate, he suddenly created some kind of witness and then he became the greatest criminal just because he was a Serb. When it comes to political representatives of Serbs with KIM, in any attempt to defend Serbian interests on KIM, a representative of Serbs who dared to do so or to mention it, the pattern would be orchestrated, attacked by the media from Pristina, and subsequently prepared mounted court proceedings. When he was following the lift of the billboard, so-called The KIC in Kišnica, representatives of the Gracanica municipality, Mr. Srdjan Popovic said it was another pressure on the Serb people in KIM and that the goal of bringing unrest among the Serb people to KIM was to stage an orchestrated campaign of Pristina media against him. The headlines that were in the newspaper in those days were that Popovic entered religious and racial intolerance and that he was a large Serb aggressor. Let me remind you, Mr Popovic lost his own brother in 2003. He was killed by terrorists in downtown Gracanica. He was a kid. After an attack on the media, a council member in the Municipality of Gracanica of Albanian nationality, Mr. Granit Gashi reported miracles against Srdjan Popovic for the so-called "major". bringing in religious and racial intolerance. Last night, I mentioned the verdict to Mr. Ivan Todosivic, the president of the municipality of Zvecan, who, at the time he was convicted for saying that they were not civilians in Račka, but that in Račka police killed terrorists, was in front of the Serbian list of ministers in the Kosovo government. Institutions in Pristina sentenced him to two years in prison and thus made it impossible for him to live with his family at KIM. He had to leave KIM space. That the Albanian side does not know about reconciliation even in the course of the greatest monster that has ever happened to humanity, during the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus, also says that a month ago, sanitary and health inspectors from Pristina were involved in the pharmacy in the north of KiM, followed by armed police to kidnap medicines that were illegally introduced to KIM under their regulations. So it's no longer a right to pain, it's no longer a right to move, it's now a right to treatment. It's now kidnapping the right to live naked. When Serbia sent vaccines to the northern area of KiM the other day, such a pomp and such a media hack rose from Pristina, as if a convoy of transporters and armored vehicles had gone from Belgrade, not a vaccine to help treat the people in KIM, so Meljiza Haradinaj said that Serbia is in violation of the Brussels Agreement. I am now asking her to show me one point of the Brussels Agreement that says Serbia cannot send medical equipment, medicines, health care to its people at KIM. The Serb and Serb people led by Alexander Vukic, I have said this several times and repeatedly, have been defined for peace and co-existence with Albanians and other KIM nationalities. We showed it by our actions, we showed it by our actions. President Aleksandar Vukic showed it by his actions. This way, I call on Albanian representatives from Pristina and other centres in the Republic of Serbia to abandon wartime Hague policies in the absence of results and in a desire to justify their failed policies. I also call on all socially responsible people to adapt their rhetoric to the conditions and situation on KIM which is more than flammable at the moment. And all those who can't do it, I call on them to learn it from the man who went to Srebrenica, I call on them to learn it from the man who sent 1,000 PSR tests to the Institute of Public Health in Pristina in the first attack of the virus corona. I call on them to learn that from the man who has been on their attacks that Serbia has committed any aggression by sending a vaccine to the Serbs to KIM, he said he has no problem with it and that he will send the vaccine to the other population of KIM, primarily Albanians and the population of other nationalities. I invite them to learn from Alexander Vukic in peace and tolerance and reconciliation. Long live Serbia, Long live KIM!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2462	I thank the People's MP Milan. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? In front of the promoter is the vice president of the Elvira Kovac National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2463	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of an extremely high-quality debate, I would like, on behalf of the promoter, 15 Members of the Committee on European Integration to sum up. I think the best, since at the very beginning of my presentation yesterday morning, I was just talking about what later and came as an amendment to these conclusions, how important it is to continue constant and uninterrupted communication with citizens about values and the importance of European integration and the EU, I think it is good to talk a little bit more about the concrete benefits of this process. In fact, the total bilateral exchange between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia for the period 2018-2019, which we are partly talking about, grew by 4.8% and amounted to 26.5 billion euros. Over the last 10 years, bilateral exchanges have been growing by an impressive 156%, and the EU indeed remains the first trading partner, covering 63% of total exchanges, 68% of total exports and 59% of total imports of goods. The European Union is indeed the largest donor, investor and trade partner of the Republic of Serbia. For the period 2000 to 2018, the European Union has provided grants amounting to 3.6 billion in areas from the rule of law, public administration reform, social development to the environment and agriculture. About 600 projects are currently being implemented. Each year, the EU donates about 200m euros for the social and economic development of the Republic of Serbia. On May 22th, this year, the 70m-euro agreement was signed by EU delegation chief, Ambassador Sam Fabrici and European Integration Minister and National IPA Co-ordinator Jadranka Joksimovic. It's about grants. It is the first part of the IPA programme for this year, and help will go towards employment, agriculture, education, health, rural development and social protection of the most vulnerable. On May 20th, this year, the European Commission presented an extremely significant proposal for the establishment of a 750-billion-euro fund to support the European economy affected, threatened by the pandemic of the coronary virus. A new recovery instrument, called the Next Generation of Europe, the European Union, has been installed in the long-term budget for the period from 2021 to 2027. European Commissioner for Neighbouring Policy and Enlargement Varheji Oliver said Serbia would be included in the 750 billion-euro European Commission's plan for the EU's recovery from the pandemic of the Coronary Virus. In late April of this year, the European Commission announced more than 3.3 billion euros in EU financial assistance to citizens of the Western Balkans, which will be realised with the European Investment Bank. This package is intended to meet the urgent health and humanitarian needs of Kovid-19 pandemic, as well as to help the socio-economic recovery. The European Union has provided a package of measures to support Serbia in the fight against the crown of the virus. First of all, the 93m-euro financial assistance, so that Serbia is in fact able to resuscitate funds, neutral funds from IPA funds and ongoing projects. Furthermore, 15m euros for emergency assistance to Serbia. During the pandemic, 200,000 euros in food and hygiene aid packages for more than 15,000 of the most endangered citizens were also provided. The European Union also treats Western Balkan countries, which is extremely important, as privileged partners, joining them with the mechanisms and instruments of the Union itself. This includes the Health Security Committee, common procurement agreements, the Union Civil Protection Mechanism, the Solidarity Fund, etc. Serbia, as a candidate country, participates in the so-called The "Recue EU" programme, which is the latest part of the European Union's civil protection mechanism that can be active for all forms of natural disasters. The European Commission is funding all the funds, including storage and transport. Serbia specifically benefited from this programme in the first half, sometime in July this year and now before the end of 2020. The investment framework for the Western Balkans mentioned here is a special instrument of support for the European Union and international financial institutions for the preparation and implementation of infrastructure projects. From 2014 to today, Serbia has received grants for the implementation of six major projects on Serbia's territory in sectors: transport, energy and the environment, totaling nearly 135m euros. As is known, the Republic of Serbia is implementing cross-border co-operation programmes with seven countries: Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, and since recently Northern Macedonia. As is known, the Republic of Serbia has implemented cross-border co-operation programmes with seven countries in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, and since recently also with Northern Macedonia. To date, a total of 1.151 projects totalling around 406m euros have been implemented since these cross-border co-operation programmes. For example, Bačka Vinograda-Ashothal's crossing was opened from the programme with Hungary. The reconstruction of the access roads by Bačka Breg, Baimok and Djala. Improving flood defence infrastructure in the north of Vojvodina, etc. The programme with Romania, for example, has trained one of the largest organ in Serbia as part of the church's renovation. I could talk about it for a long time, but I'm going to have a social awareness, as the President of Parliament asked us yesterday. Since we have discussed today at the college that it is important for the EU to be checked out what we have done and that we are dealing with ourselves, the National Assembly, the European Commission report has a special part concerning the work of the National Assembly, meaning the key points relating to the work of this institution which, I would like to remind all of you, formed, or congregation leadership elected on 22 October this year. All our committees were formed, a large majority of them, almost everyone, October 26th, and the new Government of the Republic of Serbia was elected on October 28th this year. Since then, the Assembly has taken very seriously the recommendations for the European Commission's report and has done the following. The number of emergency procedures that amounted to 44% during the previous report was reduced and 19% decreased. This new assembly adopted an emergency procedure for these intense two months only three draft laws. Everyone else went to regular school. Another criticism or recommendation referred to an incendiary talk in the congregation. The National Assembly recently adopted the Code of Conduct of National MPs. The effectiveness, independence and transparency of the work of the Assembly most concerned by congregation oversight of the executive authority has been increased. In fact, most of the assembly committees held sessions where resolution ministers submitted work reports. The 2020 budget was arrived on time, according to the 2021 Assembly calendar. The budget hearing time has doubled for the first time ever. With the budget, we also discussed the final budget for 2019, which is an extremely big deal. Annual reports of independent regulatory bodies were also discussed, the conclusions of the parent committees were adopted, and these are also recommendations from the report. As far as the public hearings are concerned. For a while there was little public listening, it was noticed. In the previous meeting, there were six, now the Finance Committee organized a public hearing. It's a good example, and I hope we have more in the next period. Once again, the recommendation was concrete to adopt the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. The task force was working on it and the Administrative Committee proposed, and the National Assembly adopted. So, to conclude, the debate on the European Commission's report, on Serbia's progress in the European integration processes in the National Assembly, did not aim to encourage maybe noise or anger, but rather a fundamental analysis of the different policies that represent our future. Serbia is part of European history and we have always had friends in Europe as we have today. Given the great importance of the accession process, we believe that it is time to put its political nature first, and to ensure stronger leadership and engagement of Member States at the highest political level. I therefore ask the Members of Parliament to adopt the conclusions of the Committee on European Integration or members of that Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-29-0.u2464	Thank you. I'm glad social awareness has an impact. We're done arguing. For the time being, there are no further reports on the lists of parliamentary groups. There are no registered presidents, or authorised representatives of MPs. Does Mr. Secretary want a word? Thank you. I just want to thank Minister Selakovic at the end of this debate for his presence both yesterday and today, of course to the other representatives of the government, but he was most persistent to stay with us until the end. I thank him for that. As for us, on the basis of Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a single review on the proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020. According to Article 87(5), Rules of Procedure, I order Tuesday, December 29th, starting at 14.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the ninth session of the Second Regular Session. We'll wait twenty-five minutes just to do the other formalities, because you know today is the end of a regular session, and then we have a ceremony that involves a state anthem. I thank Minister Selakovic once again. We continue at 1400 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the voting day quorum, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session, and please insert your identification cards into the electronic voting system units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 174 MPs present at this point, namely that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Media Services, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 178, for - 176, did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill provides for this law to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 179 for -177 did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Media Services, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 180 total, for -177, abstention – one, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Media Services. Since I am moving to a decision on the proposals of the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement of the item 2 to 4 of the agenda, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3) and (6) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing public borrowing and conclusion and confirmation of international contracts with the majority of votes of all MPs. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. Second item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Cinema Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181 for – 179 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Third item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on the elimination of double taxation in relation to income taxes and the prevention of tax ejaculation and avoidance, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 181 in total for – 181. I find that the National Assembly unanimously, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the bill. Fourth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on the loan of the construction of the E-80 Nis-Medara highway, the Nis-Pločnik section, phase 1) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181, for – 180, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The fifth item of the agenda. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the proposal for a conclusion has become the amendments of MP Nemanja Joksimovic to points 1, 2 and 5. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020, in general. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181, for – 173, abstention – two, did not vote – six. I find that the National Assembly accepted by majority the proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission's report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020, in general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the ninth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Allow me ladies and gentlemen, since the second regular session is ending today to just point out that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in the difficult conditions of the pandemic has been working all the time, that in this new session there have been 11 sessions, nine regular and two special sessions, that there have been 26 working days of the session in two months and one week, since the National Assembly's leadership was elected, that we have considered 98 points of the agenda, that a total of 105 acts, 50 laws and 55 other acts have been adopted. I also want to say that of the 50 laws, only three were adopted by emergency procedure. That's, if we count the laws as agenda points, it's about 6%. We fulfilled everything we set as our goal at the beginning, which we spoke of. We've brought the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. We've been reviewing reports of independent bodies in the tide. For the first time, we also discussed the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress in the EU accession and accession process. I want to thank all MPs for their very dedicated work. That concludes our regular session. Of course, as you know, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by all laws, the Law on the National Assembly, etc., our Rules of Procedure, the first regular session of the following year begins on the first working day of March of the month. As you know, and every year it is and so it will be and now, right after New Year's and Christmas holidays we will continue with our practice, I haven't talked about it, but every Tuesday we had college sessions and agreed with all the heads of Parliament clubs and with the vice presidents on the dynamics and work plan of the National Assembly. We will discuss our activities further at the College session on January 5th, and we will see, you know, how emergency sessions are scheduled, but you can certainly expect us to continue our active work and immediately after the New Year's Eve. I just want to say that we have contributed the most we could to both reforms and political stability and political stability in Serbia at all. Accordingly, at the end of the regular session, as you know, there is a certain ceremony and it just shows that everything we do is in Serbia's interest. Please, at the end of the Second Regular Session in 2020, listen to the anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. )
