ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state of Serbia has sold "The Commercial Bank". The state of Serbia sold the only serious remaining bank in Serbia under the control of the Serbian state. Although we have heard, not only from economists, but also from NBS governors that it is not in Serbia's best interest and that the state can manage this bank and do good business, the state of Serbia seems to have sold to the Commercial Bank in a hurry, and that, no less, but to the New Ljubljanska Banka. So, knowingly, the state of Serbia gave up one serious piece of monetary sovereignty and continued and struck a serious blow, in general, to the sovereignty of its citizens. So, under the IMF's recommendations, what they tell us is that we are the best in the world, that we are the best in the region, that we are the best in history, it is unclear whether anyone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks they are all doing it in the interests of Serbian citizens or their own interests. In this regard, I would like to refer a question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Ani Brnabic and Mr. Sinisa Malom -- where is Serbia's concrete interest in selling the " Commercial Bank"? So, a bank that deals with profit, a bank in which Serbian citizens trust precisely because it is state-owned and it seems to be some small money, or smaller, as it really is worth, and this "New Ljubljanska Banka", a bank that is heir to the "Ljubljanska Banka", which has already caused many problems for Serbian citizens and has been a lot of problems with old foreign currency savings, i.e. that bank has robbed Serbian citizens. Instead of putting a blockade on one such contract, or transaction, where the "New Ljubljanska Banka" would be considered inequitable and automatically removed from the offer, the state of Serbia has sold the "commercial Bank" and thus rounded up the monopoly of foreign banks on the domestic market. We today, apart from the Post Office, have no more serious bank in Serbia, and certainly the Post Office couldn't compare with the number of users, nor with the capital of the Commercial Bank. Why did we absolutely give the foreigners a monopoly on the banking market in Serbia? Where's our particular interest? What good are they gonna do us? Do you realize that every country in Europe, the serious state has a large share of the domestic market, from that Germany we call on, where more than 30%, to some smaller countries? What is allowed to Jupiter is not allowed is the ox, so what is right for some Western states, it cannot be the case with Serbia, because Serbia should be in a colonial or semi-colonial position and should not have a domestic bank, and as anything criticised by the SNS, robbery privatisations and so on after October 5th, so it seems just on the case of the Commercial Bank, that the public goods, public enterprises are systematically destroyed to be sold below the price, and thus it was the impression that the state actually couldn't control it. So I call on the authorities, or the NBS, not to allow this to happen and for the state of Serbia, or the government to reconsider this sale and to keep the largest bank, the Commercial Bank, in its possession.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72458	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72459	Thank you. Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why is it not invested in the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, in southern Serbia, especially in our municipalities Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja? There these municipalities remained economically underdeveloped, but we in Serbia still have many municipalities that are underdeveloped and the state needs to keep in mind and invest most in underdeveloped municipalities because young people go from underdeveloped municipalities, and the difference in economic development between municipalities is large. We have municipalities in Serbia where you can't find workers for some new drive, and we have municipalities where you have workers all you want. That's why we need to have some strategy to invest equally in the whole country and open up the most plants in these underdeveloped municipalities because we have labour there. The state spends on young people for education and for all that and after 25 years we can't stop them, they go west, and the state spends and can't stop them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72460	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72461	Dear Presidents of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs, a serious car accident that took place the other day in the new market settlement of Selakovac, on the street of Dubrovnik, has upset the real public in Novi Pazar and raised a number of issues concerning, above all, traffic safety and traffic safety in the town of Novi Pazar. Disturbing footage of this accident that severely injured a 27-year-old woman and her child, he really grabbed and scared the citizens of New Market and alarmed all of us. This situation is indeed one big reminder, first of all, to all the unconscious drivers driving in the cities of our country, but also to the authorities who are in charge of controlling and controlling these, I'll say, traffic thugs. The problem is that the town of Novi Pazar has seven primary schools that are close to the national roads. Local self-government has no authority to place on these state roads lying cops, and that is one big problem, which they have pointed to for a long time, since citizens have been asking to be in this troubled location, as well as in other problematic locations of state roads passing through Novi Pazar themselves by laying down police officers and thus disabling the ferocity of drivers who are unconscious. Local self-government, I repeat again, has no authority to place on state roads the lying officers and, in my opinion, is one of the serious failures that has our legal system in the Republic of Serbia. And citizens are also looking for an urgent set-up of speed-slowers both on Dubrovnik Street or elsewhere in trouble spots. The New Market City Security Council for Traffic Security has asked the competent institutions to deal with this problem and to allow the city to set up lying police officers in troubled locations. Therefore, I call on this public company, "The Ways of Serbia", to allow speed slowers, so-called "the Roads of Serbia", to be placed as soon as possible. Lying cops, on these troubled sections of state roads passing through the city itself. If this is such a problem, I also ask the director of "The Way of Serbia" – why do not these problem locations put up cameras that record the speed of the vehicle? At the same time, it seems to me that this is one of the possible and very high-quality solutions to this burning problem, not only in Novi Pazar, where it is the most unique, but also in other parts of our country. This way we're going to solve the problem of driving irresponsible drivers, and I repeat, it's on the tapes recorded by the cameras in the surrounding joints to drive around here a little bit over 200 kilometers per hour. The safety of pedestrians, especially children, must be our first priority, because we all have children who go to school almost every day, are exposed to this danger. I also appeal to Mr Stefanovic's interior minister to urgently strengthen the traffic police in Novi Pazar and find a way to hire, indeed, another number of traffickers, as it is evident that there are few traffic police and few traffickers in the town of Novi Pazar, and it seems to me in other parts of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72462	Thank you. The question is Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72463	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members, I would like to use today's opportunity to ask a parliamentary question concerning the work of the Social Labour Centre. The issue, of course, concerns the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, which is in the power of Minister Djordjevic, and in this sense I ask them a question. I believe that this is a very determined ministry, with various forms of social protection work and measures to be implemented in terms of helping the family and the most sensitive categories of the population. It is the most prominent body on the ground and they have to answer, so to speak, daily, many sensitive questions and problems that happen in life. We are aware, of course, of the complexity of the problems in society, as well as a series of measures and laws adopted in the meantime, also, in order to improve the work of these institutions, and that is certainly good. Nevertheless, from time to time, it escalates a problem that draws attention to their work and demands that this service be improved specifically and that its work improves. On this occasion, I would specifically refer to, unfortunately, something that almost happened with the Social Work Centro, for example. in Alibunar, who did not spot the problem of children who were completely alone and without parental ageing. Of course, I welcome the quick reaction of the Ministry in this case, but I would like to draw attention to the work of the center, which has the role of custody authorities when it comes to children, powerless and old and without families, persons who are users of other people's care, but also to issues of the protection of women and children in general. Not only in this case, which has upset the public, but also in a number of other situations where there has been insufficient professional supervision and impartial work of centres tasked with protecting children and families, it has proved that even more organised and better work of these institutions is needed, a number of preventive measures that they would apply, actions they would take, but also more severe and more regular surveillance of their work, which has also announced this ministry. In the past few years, we've been familiar with a number of cases where the centres are not in the process, for example. the confidence of children or other measures they have taken has not been sufficiently protected by the user. This may be due to the intricacies, the lack of teamwork, the neglect of legal obligations, and perhaps the overcome concept of the work of the social work centre. So I ask the question, does the Ministry, from the perceived failures in the work of the Social Labour Centre, which, unfortunately, have been often the subject of public criticism, plan to amend laws that would increase responsibility, provide professional, better personnel equipment and thus reaffirm the role of these institutions to which the state has entrusted a large number of significant powers regarding family and children, in order to enjoy greater respect and trust of citizens? The task of these services is not only to respond to the problem, but also to prevent, or detect, problems and work to eliminate them. They are important to us, because the institution is a protection of trust, but also quality and rapid action. I therefore think that these services should be given greater attention in the coming period and apply a new modern development strategy, which is materially-technically, and especially humanised for better and better quality work, in terms of comprehensive protection of the most sensitive categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72464	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72465	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is about the State Department and local self-government. What will the Ministry of State Administration do if the territory of the Old Town municipality is run by municipal leadership, headed by Bastac, who is known for putting a bag on the head of political opponents, or godfathers who collect money, so what will he do if a municipal election commission is not formed? There is indications that Bastac and his criminal team, currently ruling in the area of the municipality of Stari Grad, will not form a municipal electoral commission, with the goal of delegating upcoming elections. If they do not, as far as I know, and I ask the Ministry of State Administration, the city of Belgrade should take certain actions to ensure that citizens of Old Town have the right to choose new leadership after criminals in the upcoming local elections, held together with elections for MPs, giving special weight, given that RIK and the local electoral commission should carry out joint electoral actions, on the territory, not only of the Old City, but in Serbia as a whole. My second question concerns the Ministry of Culture and Information, and other bodies, what will they do about me spreading false news from an organization called BRODI? This organization is known for its representatives sitting on the expert team of Dragan Gilas, together with this Cedomir Čupic, known as the university's sexual predator, as the man who forged his colleagues and confessed to it in the prosecution's guilt, then you can imagine when such moral size, which hangs out with Mr. Čupic and who are members of Gilas's expert team, in any case for Šolakova and Gilas's television, announces that it is the television that has the best balanced programme and editorial policy. I think it's part of spreading false news. I don't know why this country has allowed foreign television, and I've warned you for a year, that foreign cross-border, fictitious sides of cross-border television, registered fictitiously in Luxembourg, can participate actively in the process before elections, or even in an election campaign. With this in mind, they are not registered in Serbia, they do not know when the elections are in Luxembourg, and here they will broadcast the programme and this NGO BRODI is trying to do what they are doing, against the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I will also say against the state of Serbia, to present as a balanced programme and for me BRODI is not an NGO, Mr Orlic, but an anti-government and anti-state organisation that spreads false news. I warned you, over the past year, that N1 and Nova S TV, along with 20 fake cross-border TVs, belonging to Sollaku and Gilas, will try everything to do in the election campaign to spread false news, to influence the electoral process in the Republic of Serbia. I ask you, given that in Montenegro, the programme of two of our televisions, which are unequivocally registered in the Republic of Serbia, is being broadcast in the Republic of Serbia, and the programme is being downloaded in Montenegro at the same time, means legal cross-border television, and Montenegro has banned the broadcasting of legal cross-border televisions, as they are allegedly affecting Mr Djukanovic's public opinion. In this case, we allow fake cross-border television to do worse things and there is no state reaction and with regard to my question - what will the state do about spreading false news and what foreign televisions actively participate in the election campaign and imagine that Russia is doing in this way in America? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72466	Thank you. The word is Sandra Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72467	I thank President Gojkovic. Dear People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to point out, above all, the rectors of Belgrade University Ivanko Popovic, but given the subject of my interest, today's announcement, the question and the relationship that this person has with the rector and because of its known objectivity, I have to refer this issue to two more distances, which are the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Justice, and, if necessary, after the outcome and the answer, I would also ask the D.A. to respond. In fact, we all know that DS official Balša Bozovic, who is a self-proclaimed expert on everything and a walking Robin Hudovska parody, presents himself everywhere as a graduate lawyer who graduated from Belgrade University. It's something that's very easily verifiable, publicly available as information. Here, first of all, I have his concrete statement that on his Twitter warrant he's a graduate lawyer. The University of Belgrade is saddened and writes -- a folk MP in the Serbian Parliament -- who meets me trusts me. Here, I don't believe so much, I'm not so inclined to trust DS officials, so I ask that the competent authorities explain to me how after my checklist, on a site that is official, public, accessible to the Belgrade University's Law School, there is no registered name of Balša Bozovic, who should have graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, as it is presented, but you will not see him on this list. I was really thorough when I was researching and I went through absolutely all the modules, all the directions, from basic studies to master studies, specialist studies to doctoral studies, and I really failed to find any Balša Bozovic who graduated from Belgrade University Law School. Since 1983, since this list has been officially registered, so all those who have completed certain studies, and I have, of course, searched, and believe me, the first one that, I say, has come to my mind, who I know, and has completed the Faculty of Law with excellent grades, and we are proud to always point out, is just the president of Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic. Of course, he is found neatly in the records, like anyone else who has come to my mind, who has graduated from Law School is in that register, but somehow Balša Bozovica is not there. So, according to this, we can conclude that according to Belgrade Law School, Balsa Bozovic is falsely represented. Believe me, this isn't just any kind of oversight. I will remind you that Balša Bozovic, in 2012 and 2014 and 2016, ran on lists for different levels of government where his name stood, the Belgrade University's graduate lawyer, and he certainly pointed out in the media and in the public. So this is a defacto, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a politician, but I can say it's a defacto example of false representation. Here, we also have official lists 2016, 2012 and 2014 where it says, Balša Bozovic is a graduate lawyer. So, if Balša Bozovic has completed any studies and possibly studies at another university, and some connection is mentioned with his good friend Vesna Rakic Vedinelic, let him publicly say so and stop representing himself falsely and thus deceive the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, did he finish any academic studies and where? Several times my colleagues here from this place have sought, having the same doubts as I do today, to see Balsha's index, however, they have never had the opportunity to translate that extraordinary knowledge into index grades and see. Also, I am now really starting to understand the frustration of Balša Bozovic with the character and part of some of my colleagues who have really achieved extraordinary results in their professional engagement and of course academic life, which makes him certain complexes for which the treatment of innocent people comes into error and are the subject of Balsha's politics and very bad propaganda. So, please mention that the answer to my question as soon as possible, because we are aware that the elections are at our door, and you know how, if we say that Balsa Bozovic is again a candidate on one of the lists, and I am sure that Balsa Bozovic will be a candidate on one of the lists, if of course Chief Bosko Obradovic lets him do so, I would ask her to stop immediately with the deception of our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72468	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72469	Thank you. My question goes to the address of the Prime Minister, the finance minister and the governor of the National Bank and concerns the topic that one colleague mentioned earlier, but I think it's too big to go unnoticed and pushed under the carpet. It's, of course, the sale of the Commercial Bank. I've apostropheded the subject from this place several times, asked the finance minister here live when she was visiting the government. I have appealed from this place not to do so with arguments and professions, and I would say logic and politics that the sale of the largest domestic bank, the last major domestic bank, is something that is fundamentally influencing the country's economic sovereignty and that, in the end, an example and an argument that is often sought or could be heard lately, that the sale of Commercial banks cannot be criticised by those who contributed themselves, sold domestic banks or pushed them into bankruptcy, referring to some previous authorities. I agree with that criticism, but I don't think... And I've been criticizing it all along, but I don't think it's then... But I'd like to continue with that practice that we agreed was bad. So it's convincing about the best domestic bank and not only the domestic one, it means one of the largest, most competitive and most reliable in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which works both in Republika Srpska and Montenegro and has excellent balances. It is sold for, I repeat and stress, 387m euros, with an expected profit as of the end of the year to raise it to 450m, but the official purchase price is 387m euros. Annual profit, the bank's profits were only around 70m euros last year. So every layman is clear that it's a bad bill. A team before many in this room, many in this current government criticised, as I said, the moves and policies of previous authorities, which indeed did, but even they didn't want to sell everything. As if the goal was to continue to radicalise everything that the predecessors did wrong, as these examples of privatisation show, I say, and which, let's not neglect this thing, the financial sector of this country puts completely into the hands of foreigners. Not to mention this one symbolic, and not only symbolic, and politically problematic moment for us to sell to the New Ljubljana Bank to the Commercial Bank, in which the majority owner, the majority individual owner, means, the largest shareholder, is the state of Slovenia. So, the state of Serbia sells the bank to the New Ljubljana Bank, whose largest owner, i.e. the shareholder of the state of Slovenia. Not to speak examples from the world, where you also see this phrase about how the state is a bad owner is not quite true and that no country that holds to itself and its sovereignty, regardless of the flows of free traffic, money, capital and so on, still holds some leverage, and that is key, financial, political in its own hands. And aside from the fact that the governor of the National Bank's last few times had a statement in the last few days... a number of statements which questioned the justification of the sale. So, I'm looking for an argument and one more reason, because the thing is not irreparable, but it's very close to becoming repairable, from the Ministry of Finance, from the Prime Minister and from the governor of the National Bank, an explanation as to why, despite all the arguments and professions, I say, and also common sense went to the sale of the Commercial Bank and thus actually endangering, practically suspending the financial sovereignty of this country. My second question is short and goes to the address of the Prime Minister, or the President of the Assembly, I will have to skip this, so I will ask her today, tonight, the Prime Minister, but for the President of the Assembly -- whether she will be in charge of calling elections, as part of the local elections in the Republic of Serbia, which is in her jurisdiction, if she has any knowledge, it is one thing whether she will call the elections, and another whether she has any knowledge that the local elections will be held in northern Kosovo and Metohija, at least in those municipalities where possible, because the last time these elections were held in 2012. So, local elections in northern Kosovo and Metohija were last held in 2012. After that, municipalities with the Serb majority in the north were pushed into Pristina's arms.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72470	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m., and we will continue the search as necessary after 19.00 p.m. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure, I interrupt this session for holding a session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, which we will begin at 11.00 hours, so I am setting a short break by 11.00 hours. In accordance with Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session will continue immediately after the end of the session of the 20th extraordinary session. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue the session of the twenty-sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We move to search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAMME OF THE IMPLEMENT AND THE SPECIFIC IMPLEMENTING OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENT AND THE SPECIFIC IMPLE ACCORDING TO Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government are invited to attend with their co-workers from the competent ministries. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Now I've been informed that the minister in charge will be present since 11:30. I'm setting a break by 11:30. That's about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72473	In principle, we've come to terms with this law and we don't think this law should be passed. We have proposed to withdraw from the procedure, simply, because this is just a pre-election trick that will absolutely no use, which will not serve the purpose spoken of in public, and in public for years now it has been said that everything will turn upside down when this law is passed. Of course not, nor will there be any effect, nor will there be any consequences for those who have become rich without a proven legal basis. We have in our legislation a fully regulated system of determining unfounded wealth. Unfounded wealth is what happens through criminal acts. If we're going to do this without valid court proceedings, if this is only for income management officials, then that just means that there won't be any effect and there won't be any results. You want to make a public impression that you are all available to the court of the public, and we know well that, above all, your property, the property of your officials and current and former ones will not be on the agenda, no one will discuss it. We are going to draw your attention today to everything that you should, if you already pass this law, from where you should start and what you should actually do. We know that you will not do this, we know that this law is only one pamphlet, one pre-election flyer, best called the Serbian Radical Party suggests that this law be withdrawn from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72474	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is fully convinced that this law is indeed a pre-election one. When a colleague said she'd serve as a pamphlet, I don't know if she'd split from door to door or maybe throw herself out of the airport. Let's see what it's gonna be like. This law might make sense if it was in Switzerland. In Serbia, this is just one message to voters that as if we were fighting, we as a society, you as a government that we would fight those who have illegally or illegally acquired some property. What's very interesting about this? Article 1 of this Act provides that it will mainly refer to natural persons. Those who are your predecessors, not all of them, of course, but also in your system of government there are people who have extended the arm of Vlahovic, Djelic, Labus and others, and they have either turned their capital into other values or some financial means, so they have brought it out of Serbia, or they have transferred it to some other persons, or they have now created legal entities. This law does not show that it will apply to them. This should not have been put into legal traffic at all, i.e. it should not have gone with such a proposal, because this will be just one relationship with those who think differently, towards those who want to protect Serbia's assets, the property of Serbia, not their own. According to them will be this blade pointed, and that will give some effect to this law, we are absolutely certain that it will be nothing. That's why we can't vote for a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72476	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Ljupka Mihajlovska, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72477	So, if it were to be sincerely desired, if this government truly wanted to deal with crime, that it truly wanted, it would certainly not have waited for the last moment and the time of the election campaign that has not yet officially begun, but was about to, and you were promoting it, among other things, the agenda of this session. We've been paying attention to you that for all these years, as many as you've called, how many as the ruling party and the ruling coalition have you called some former name and last name and wealth, you've actually done nothing because no criminal you call a criminal has been prosecuted. That's in favor of you not being honest about dealing with it. Of course, a man immediately wonders why, and they say zero tolerances to corruption, crime, and corruption and crime are booming. Not that it's zero, but with a few zeroes and who knows how many numbers ahead. So, if you wanted to truly fight crime, to return the kidnapped property, to return everything acquired by criminal acts, you would not have allowed the limitations of the proceedings that could have been conducted against Miroljub Labus, Djelic, Vlahovic, Dinkic, Pitic and other bulluments of the time to come. We haven't forgotten that Aleksandar Vukic, as an SRS MP, showed that prison suit for Dinkic and claimed Dinkic would be arrested. If he had stayed in the SRS, he certainly wouldn't have changed his attitude toward crime. These days, let's say, some of them stick to it, I think some ministry representatives are involved in it, workshops, as you call it, I don't know how modern it is, where young people learn how to make money, etc. Imagine lecturer Pitic. Pitic became the owner of the bank from the minister's post, and then became the owner of the university. Now that college of his, of course, explains to young people how they can get rich, I guess, like him. The bill made him rich, he didn't criminally respond, and here's the recipe. So you've been talking here for a long time about the wealth of Dragan Gilas, you're talking about stealing money on the bridge. Is it possible that it's just a story for the sake of the story, and apparently it is, that you don't think of taking one serious procedure to definitely establish it? We have been telling you for years that Dragica Nikolic, through her foundation, washed and stole huge amounts of money. We ask here in public, and without the law of this we ask, how can Tomislav Nikolic have three villas on the Sava, that there is a villa in Senjak, that he has an apartment in a smart building, that he has a church, that he has a latifundia in Bajcetina? How could he make that? How can Zorana Mihajlovic wear a 14,000-euro necklace? It's still saying -- it's been downgraded, the real price is 42,000 euros. Is it possible that you are not wondering if it will be the subject of consideration when you adopt this law? No, they won't, because among you are protected species. Protected species will remain intact. There is no Minister Stefanovic here today, who was the first day we discussed this proposal. On your main board, Minister Stefanovic told Vukic that Zorana Mihajlovic had sent him inspectors and police officers on the villa on Bezanijska hair, and since then news has appeared that he has a villa on Bežanja hair. We ask him - how did he get to that villa? Then Vukic once explained that he sold a 90-square apartment and bought that villa. Where'd he get a 90-square apartment, and we all know his professional route? There's so much that you really need and what you could and what you could do without this law. You don't need this law. Today, even these days, people in Serbia will say as your MPs will say - this is how the government is responsible, Bravo Government. You know, psychologically, half a million people live off the guaranteed lowest personal income of 30,022 dinars, and when you tell people like that -- here's the power to fight and take away property from anyone who doesn't prove he's come to that property, people will look forward to having their neighbors take his house, take another neighbor's company, etc. You are, in this way, in this pathetic, hypocritical way, psychologically trying to influence people in the election campaign, and that is why you are offering this law that is the most common piece of paper, which absolutely means nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72478	The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 7th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72479	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have repeatedly pointed out to you through our previous discussions that this bill is not founded in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that the Constitutional Court must certainly challenge it and that this law you are making is not the essential but the marketing type you bring ahead of the election campaign. What is undeniable is that this government closes its eyes to the criminal acts of its highest officials and that you insist on avoiding them and getting in the way of preventing the serious crime that has been committed in the highest authorities. That there is no good will or incompetence is at stake or you cannot do anything about it simply because it is not allowed by foreign agents to do so is the fact that even after the discovery of various affairs and involvement of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and her closest associates, whom you have recently arrested and released, their involvement in serious crime, and you do nothing. On more than one occasion, Minister Mihajlovic stressed that there is no income from the government of the Republic of Serbia, to make money from Megatrend and to spend much more than its property map shows. Then the question arises: will the public executioners, who have made themselves rich in the torment of the poor people, who have taken away their houses and apartments because they were unable to pay for municipal services, because they could not, will you also examine their property? Unfortunately, we suspect that you will, because despite the support of more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is no good will to find in the National Assembly on the agenda a proposal for an SRS law on the executive procedure and security, which would put an end to public enforcement, and a procedure of execution returned to courts, which would stop the robbery of the poorest citizens of Serbia who are unable to pay their debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72480	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. The 9th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72481	This bill resembles those passwords – take the check, report to the neighbor and the like. Special powers of the tax administration unit are put first here, and whether the tax administration before the adoption, i.e. this bill, has checked how informative Serbian citizens have reported their assets exceeding 35 million, which has been the obligation since 2013 under the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I believe we don't have that kind of information, and if we really wanted to have the right effect or any honest effect under this law, we would have to do it for sure. But you didn't want to do it anyway. When we said earlier that there was a continuity between financial experts since 2000, especially in 2003, 2004, and until 2012, with today's system of government, you didn't seem to care, for that finding, or for that truth, for that fact. How do you explain and interpret the sale of Commercial Banks? It is the collapse or collapse of Serbia's monetary system. You will see what kind of privatisation, sales, what financial crisis can occur when world powers want it, and then Serbian citizens will wonder what happened. Maybe it's easy for some people to smile at what we're talking about. They provided their life existences not only for themselves, but also for some of their descendants, and what about those who still don't have a job today? A few days ago, I couldn't believe there were people whose pension is 14,500 dinars - 15,000 dinars. When it's divided into two parts, as it's received, it's 7,000 dinars. These citizens aren't laughing. They don't want to laugh. They have a big problem with how to survive, how to school, how to help their children and their grandkids, how to welcome tomorrow, and they're not laughing at at all. This law, once again, is really completely pointless and you bring it in at a time when anyone who doesn't have to be political laundry doesn't have to be an economic expert, but if he knows what's going to happen in the next two months, it's going to be completely clear to him why this law is right now, so if you wanted to achieve some effect, if it wasn't for years -- why didn't you wait for the elections to pass? You just want to send a message that you will fight those who have something, and the citizens of Serbia because they are very often hard to live, certainly not all of them, are not willing to receive good information and good news that his neighbor, that his maybe even close friend or family can have more than a decent job earned and to live a little better. The way you live in Serbia, the way you exercise power in a large number of citizens, causes envy. They're not percentages... Who, counterpart Mircic, said the SNS won't win this election because there won't be 100% of the votes won? The opening of a consulate, it represents in some places where no control can be performed suggests someone's wish. Is that what you all want, is that you're all okay with it, that's another question, but that's a lot of work on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72482	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72483	Mr. Minister, this law is anti-constitutional and you, as an economist and expert on the area, know very well that this is not how one's property is determined and that there are laws that are in place, with various changes and additions, but 20 years ago. When the income tax was introduced, it seems to me in 2001, and also later, by amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, it is precisely defined how someone can avoid, evacuate taxes, their obligations and which member of the Criminal Code burdens him in criminal proceedings. Now it's really amazing that you're doing something like this that's absolutely inadmissible and, again, against the constitution, you want to question someone's property. You did not deal with what you were officially and for all state authorities for seven years back – to examine the property of the then president of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, and now you have allowed him to run some imaginary co-ordination body where he employed all those of his presidency, relatives, friends, brother-in-laws, but I do not know who. It is absolutely clear that Tomislav and Dragica Nikolic and their sons could not make millions and millions of euros. Here's what we're witnessing. Me and Mrs. Gojkovic and Mr. Mircic. We've known him since the 1990s, me since 1992, you've known him a little earlier, Mrs. Gojkovic. How could someone have acquired so much property without being involved in crime? Then they washed through the Dragica Nikolic Foundation, is that so glegonically said, Mr. Minister, that you should have checked and competent from your ministry and competent inspection services through the Dragica Nikolic Foundation and various fictional works in the town of Kragujevac hundreds of thousands of euros. More jobs like that, then it's a few million euros. Imagine, Mr. Minister, only at the construction of a children's park, you will now say – well, that is, there is a human mission, a park is made. No, it wasn't, it was a way to launder huge money and it's a public secret in the city that I live in. Dragica Nikolic has shown 600,000 euros to perform these works. That, according to the estimates of all the people who deal with architecture, construction and, in the end, it's across the street from my building, so where I live, it doesn't cost more than 50,000 euros. All of this was done via the company "Banković d.o.o." from Crna Trava. So they found some phantom company, like Lake Lake Kragujevac and similar, and that's very verifiable data. Here, today stands out, right, deadline for handing over the final accounts of those who are legally obliged to do so. Please, Mr. Minister, if today one company, otherwise, let me tell you that almost all day yesterday was not an APR portal, so people are struggling and they can't do it online, which is what you're promoting. So they had to endure, like every association of citizens, here's Mr. Stojanovic repeatedly said that he was headed by such an association, a final account of his business. Send, every company goes to an inspector from the IRS. In the area of the town of Kragujevac or Belgrade, but where their headquarters is located, it is very clear how and in what way through various companies, daughters of companies, through relatives and friends have acquired a huge fortune and it is for prison, for criminal responsibility. With all the others you know from that period, and these are the leaders and criminals from DOS who got away with it, here's now 20 years from that five-eyed mobster's coup, so, they're going to get out of their crime of kidnapping, robbery, trespassing into the federal customs administration by Mladjan Dinkic with automatic rifles and all of those domicile traps and you didn't do anything. Now, before the elections you pass one law that is against the constitution, em will not treat exactly those who have committed the greatest robberies of this country and this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72484	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There was no immediate need for this law to be passed, given that the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, particularly in Article 59, is explicitly prescribed as cross-examination of the origin of the property. Therefore, the question and responsibility of the competent authorities in charge of this area should be raised. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, as early as 1974, after World War II, the first law on the investigation of the origin of the property was passed. That law had a lot of good sides. After that law and its termination, a new law was passed in 1984, and he stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, what had to be done had to be arrested by a gang of robbers who had robbed, first of all by direct contract, when Sartid was sold, and a criminal report was filed and an investigation was launched against the lack of Kolesar. The process also questioned Miroljub Labus, Bozidar Djelic and Aleksandar Vlahovic. What is it, ladies and gentlemen, and why aren't we dealing with more serious things and more serious problems in this country? What happened to "Luka Belgrade", with "National Savings", "Veterinary Institute", "Gallenika", "C-market", "Shinvoz", "Keramik Kanjiza", IP "Prosveda", concession for the Horgos-Požega highway, sugar exports, 10,000 speedboats? Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Kole imported 10,000 cane dropouts to repack and sell at double prices in this country and thus earn some estimates of about 40m euros. So it would be necessary and necessary to raise the issue and resolve and discuss 24 privatisations that represented the biggest robbery in the history of this country. The robberies damaged billions of euros and even the Serbian government discussed it. On the other hand, there are ladies and gentlemen, and Verica Barac the deceased, pointing to a number of problems and criminal acts that took place in these 24 robbery privatisations. It's not just 24 robbery privatisations, ladies and gentlemen, it's 2,800 companies sold during the yellow ants and yellow guerrillas. I ask the question, gentlemen of the Parliament, why aren't the criminals of the former regime being prosecuted? Why are criminals not being prosecuted and arrested, who have done so much damage to workers and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that this should not be forgiven even to be forgotten, but to approach the initiation of criminal proceedings? Who's to blame for this? It's the former government's fault, but this government has such a judiciary, it has prosecutors who hold criminal charges against these criminals and robbers in a drawer. There are problems, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs. If we had the prosecution unbiased and were independent, that politics couldn't affect them, many would be in prison. What's the most important? Not only do they go to jail, but I think they need to take away the property they robbed. Without taking away property and bringing back citizens, there's no justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72486	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72487	We owe, we Serbian radicals, for the sake of the public, to explain some things. In fact, we here represent a clear principle that, first of all, we should look at the state's interest. When it comes to taxation and control of those who deal with politics, we are for much more rigorous measures than are provided for by these laws. Anyone involved in politics should be controlled by state authorities, reinforced control. It's nothing new, but we're afraid of campaigns, campaigns in terms of the negative consequences that can happen. We are all witnesses that a campaign against the finance minister was campaigned a while ago and imagine the man who, as the arguments confirm, was a fantastic November, master's work done, and then questioned his doctorate. We are witnessing, as the minister sits here, when some have succeeded in harming not only the Minister, but also the Government, to care for such actions. We expected these souls to move on, to have government support, to have all the ministers, if they had already gone to one minister, to have all the ministers under the bat and when it comes to diplomas and when it comes to colleges, when it comes to perfecting them, especially when it comes to property. However, it does care. That's the campaign. It's got deep roots, it's still after World War II, when they're pulling a mustache, so-called. The kitchens to get their grains and corn out of the attics and basements and this little personal symbolically on it. We're going to start a campaign, and then we're going to put it first in terms of those who deal with politics, and then they're going to rebel. No, the state needs to control both its officials and those who have defined themselves to be involved in politics, because there is increased responsibility. But we're against the damage being done by a hack, so those who have capital, where they're in a mood and willing to invest that capital in this country, that capital will be placed outside this country, and we'll later, as it says, regret it, to say we made a mistake. You can't run a state like that. It must be thought in a way that benefits the state. Here, by replacing the thesis, the Serbian radicals, in some ways, are making obstructions, because they are afraid to question the property of their own or anyone else. We were sitting here the other day, listening to me all here and keeping quiet about what was sad, when one of our colleagues or colleagues was reading Dragan Gilas's assets, a list of Dragan Gilas' assets. Where'd she get the document from? Where did you get that document? Who gave you that document? Is that true? Is that true? Is that a hack of a man I politically cannot understand and understand at all? We disagree, but isn't it the opening of a new era when someone magically comes to the data whether they're true or false, to read a list of properties, especially apartments? These people have children, I guess there are institutions in this country. For that we fight and advocate Serbian radicals, that everything goes through institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72488	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72489	This amendment actually warns of what the SRS position is. You have here predicted that the control procedure determines the illegally acquired assets of a natural person and its value. We said it could only be done on the basis of a judicial decision. Not even in countries where corruption is at a much lower level than with us, it cannot be left to some officials that they determine whether someone's property was acquired under the law or in some other magical way. What do you expect, a tax officer there will assess whether someone has inherited something, that he reads, that the tax officer will read the legacy solution, how he will read the purchase contracts, how he will read the gift contracts, how he will read the concession contracts, how he will read who knows what. It's just that people aren't from that profession. You allow this law, as it is said, to kill the two evil men, Milosh, two without a soul, one without a head. We don't defend anyone in advance and attack anyone in advance, but there's going to be a tax officer, a few of them, by someone's order, of course, some coordinator or so, who's winding and dressing, they're going to say, well, this guy's not answering us politically, come find him, he's got a house, I heard there's some money in a bank, come on, look for that information, and we need to figure it out. It's not a way to essentially edit this area. That can only be done on the basis of a judicial verdict. There's nothing to be taken from anyone. You brought these perpetrators in to kidnap, to leave people without a roof over their heads. Now these tax officials are going to leave people with no roof over their heads. So whoever comes to mind, you'll take your authority, take away your leather coat, and whoever's 47.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72490	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Ljubenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72491	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 15. Proposal for a law establishing the origin of the property and in particular the tax. Article 15 refers to the tax base for a special tax. In the first paragraph, provisions are laid down to determine the basis of the tax. This position is – the basis of a specific tax is determined in the value of illegally acquired assets that constitute the sum of the revaluation value of the illegally acquired property for each calendar year which has been subject to control. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing an amendment to its amendment by illegally erasing the word. We have proposed this amendment for the reasons why illegality is determined in the court proceedings. Carefully analysing the reasoning given by the legislator, it is impossible not to notice one important thing that is stated, which is that the law establishes a mechanism which, among other things, allows the property acquired by corrupt activities to fall under the special taxation regime. We agree that all assets must fall under the taxation regime, but we are also concerned that the possibility of abuse of this law could be created, because the fine could remain one sanction for those who have been corrupt. He who is corrupt will continue to be, perhaps after a certain time, he will pay a certain penalty and nothing to anyone. It's not an honest way to fight corruption. Given the importance of the law, this amendment contributes to improving the quality of the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72492	Thank you, Mr. Ljubenović. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72493	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a law establishing the origin of the property and the specific tax. I asked my amendment to say, "The Tax Administration Unit", to replace the words "the Tax Administration". I felt this way that the text of the law was defined in a better and more precise way. You know the position of the SRS that we in principle have nothing against doing things in this area in the way that suits our citizens the most. However, it is more than obvious that this law is passed for marketing reasons and that it serves only for pre-election purposes. There is a legitimate concern that this, as well as many other laws, will be applied selectively, which will create additional problems for our country and our citizens. Property, especially private property is something nobody should play with. There is no cantar in the world that will measure someone's property properly. Of course, first of all, I mean the property that is owned by an average or a slightly better-standing citizen. As a person who was born and until the violent exodus I lived in Kosovo and Metohija and I and my family owned solid property in our native Gjilan. The state of Serbia has sinned with its indecisiveness and insecure international community, which it has been courting all along, because of its illusion of the European path and has not adequately responded to the protection of state, social and private property. The people had to sell their great-grandfather's property into indemnity and quietly disappear in loneliness and sadness, and the cemetery spread across Serbia. We are being expelled by Albanian terrorists, with the support of the international community, and the state of Serbia with its insufficient concern is further slapping and humiliating us. The law is not good, so it needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72494	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would carefully check, and there are strong units, strong experts, and I would carefully check the property of former officials during this yellow former regime, because there are indications that I would arrest the entire Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. I'd like it to be arrested immediately, along with him. Here, I'll only give you one piece of information. The team sold the "Serbia Project", which was the name of the company, for a million and a half euros. So, the whole company for a million and a half euros. And then the shareholders of that company became persons who were in that famous White Book. Then she bought from the same White Book shareholders only one building, which he sold along with the company by four and a half million euros. So she sold a company with several buildings for a million and a half euros in Belgrade, and only one building of 1,800 square meters bought by the government, first sold and bought at three times the price. Should there be any other evidence that Mirko Cvetkovic and the entire government, along with these Nikezics, God's father knew the names of all their experts. To make the miracle even bigger, the building was bought without a tender, so an entire company that had more buildings for a million and a half, and one building was bought for four and a half million euros, for three times the price. Look at the wonders, without a tender, it's been bought. And do you know who it was bought for? For the Anti-Corruption Agency. Did the party of the former regime make fun of us? They sold a multi-building company for a million-and-a-half, and only one paid four and a half million euros, without a tender, to the Anti-Corruption Agency, and one of the sellers was a White Book person, which is the famous book of criminals, etc. If we need any more evidence to pick up that government like that, we'll put it somewhere behind bars. I believe there are birds out there who would love to sing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72496	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72497	Here's another member where our suspicions are increasing when it comes to the real desire to implement this law, which is to make a special department of the Tax Administration and that employees in that department regularly go to training. It's often seen so far, it's actually one matrix that works for something that's marketingly designed, and it's essentially whether it's going to be in use, and nobody's looking at it. In fact, if that were the case, then it would be reduced to the following, that a special division of the Tax Administration and employees should regularly go to training on how to calculate a 75% tax on property that is different by 150,000 euros compared to the incomes that have been reported. Here, that's the point. Who in their right mind can believe that this is a sincere desire and determination to introduce order when it comes to paying taxes? Why? Why is there a need for special training? Well, these are the people who are experts in their business in this area, the IRS is functioning, as it says, and from earlier on, all it takes is will and desire to go into a decisive fight against those honest and real criminals, but we list their names to you. It's not because it's been passed by power, it's because it's generally known and, after all, it wouldn't be bad for it to be an example to those who are now current and those who think that one day they'll be the leaders of this country. On that case where the assets are justified, so what are you going to do worse than when a man falls with long pipes into the National Bank, when he falls into the lottery armed and takes from the cash vault? There's a series of examples that have been going on where these are the most serious crimes, how they acquired property, gained wealth, increased wealth, and now I need a special division of the IRS to go to training regularly. We, in order to make it look serious, have suggested that you at least delete this, and it depends on your will whether you are going to take this job seriously at all, by putting this law out of force.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72498	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Ljupka Mihajlovska, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72499	This article 21 is a kind of light special in relation to the Law on Courts and it's just amazing how you caricate serious things. You provide that the judges of the Administrative Court who are suing final decisions on a specific tax must have completed training to acquire specific knowledge of the identification of illegally acquired assets and of the specific tax. Well, you think judges are jerks, that judges are uneducated, that judges don't know how to read the law, or you want your specials, even if they were judges, to do what I did just before when I was talking, that you will aimly determine who needs to take away some property. And you won't care if that property was obtained legally or illegally? You'll protect your own, and you'll get sick of others, and that's why you need your special judges. We all know well what luck we've gotten from these special forces in the organized crime and war crimes court. We won among the judges of criminals, among the judges organized crime, we got judges for war crimes that judge only Serbs, who invent and accept the prosecution's proposals for some crimes and some crimes that were not committed, especially in the way they tried to be tried. Isn't that the science that we don't need any specialists? We need judges who are honest and honorable, who are worthy of their functions and who work in accordance with the law. Every judge, gentlemen, if you don't know, can read the new law that you adopt, interpret it, and when he gets the case under that law, that judge will, in accordance with his free will, the law and the evidence to rule. There shouldn't be any... Who will, then, just tell me, who will be the one who will train those future judges of yours, or what will you call them, Special Agent, who will train them? What? Someone from the Department of Revenue comes to train the judge? Well, you really have so many crazy suggestions that it hurts.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72500	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Ljupka Mihajlovska, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 23rd amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72501	Mr. Marinkovic, this amendment and if the government had accepted it, he would not have fixed this bill, although this is an excellent amendment. You heard that we have special courts, special prosecutors, special agencies, special departments of tax administration that are supposed to fight, allegedly against illegally acquired property now, and counterpart Atlagic is there. Some students learn from serious textbooks and take exams, although sometimes the exam can be passed on the basis of some scripts, based on some notes. Now, if we were to make some rank of this bill against the serious laws, this might be at the level of that little non-essential script. There won't be any change. If you had a truly sincere and true desire to fight those who illegally acquired property that crosses the usual possible acquisition, you have so far had quite a number of laws both by quality and by the extent that this could be regulated. But you don't want it, you just want the dogs to keep barking, trains to pass, but this law is necessary for only those who don't want to be disciplined the way you expect it to come under the influence of this law. Article 23 speaks of security checks on employees in a special unit of the tax administration, who should be doing this part of the job. I have to remind you not so long ago when the director of the Tax Administration in the Republic of Serbia, the man who came from the BIA had a high position in the BIA, came to Ljubljana in a tobacco factory, where the primary processing of tobacco was done, acted as if he had come from the wild west, pulled out guns, threatened, called on the Prime Minister at the time, that he had a direct order from him. What did we have to do with it? We had the consequence that this primary production of that industrial plant, I can't say it completely stopped, but it decreased by 90%. This is a climate of high quality, where this industrial plant succeeds, gives good yields, good quality and a large number of people, since great living work is needed, provides their existence, i.e. the existence of their family. After Mr Marinkovic's reckless and unconscious procedure, it is a concern, a factory, or you won't believe he arrested the factory. He was arrested and the director. I don't get into it, there are the organs of this country, he proved that it wasn't right, that it was against the law, but, well, there was one man. Although we must take care of the integrity of every man, but he arrested the factory, banned access, banned access to employees in that factory. There was already some bought-out tobacco, processed, semi-processed that had failed. The huge financial damage has been caused, the millions' damage has been done. Who's gonna pay for all that? State. Well, who says they won't be in this agency, even though you said they were obliged to report their property. Well, you in the Security and Enforcement Act say that public contractors, as well as persons employed by them, do not have the right to appear at auctions during the purchase of the seized property. And they don't show up, but there's an aunt, an aunt, someone of theirs shows up, and then they buy that property. That's the kind of situation we're gonna have here. Further to this, what my colleague Verica said, this former member is a lex specialis, and this attitude of the 3rd of this Article 23 is a lex specialis compared to the Home Ministry Act. You say here, those who are doing a security check on those who are going to be working in this special unit that they can't give information on how they got there and things like that. First, it's impossible to limit these, and secondly, if it's intended to create a director of the tax administration, and later the finance minister who's going to decide on the reception, to create a real picture of the candidates, why would something be hiding? There may also be abuse by those who check and if I just write for someone that he's not like, and I don't prove the procedure in which I did it. Will you believe that? If you'll believe it then we with this law will have much more problems than we've had without him. You will do nothing of quality for the citizens of Serbia. They may give support to one law where it would all be checked, but like this one, I'm sure they wouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72502	Thank you. The National MP, Dubravko Bojic, submitted the amendment to Article 24. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been almost no similar example in our recent legislative practice that one law has been announced more, that it has been threatened by political inexperiences and previous authorities since the five-octobaric coup of the beginning of the century. Every new government, and these were grains in different aggregate states, daily filled the columns of newspaper texts that would first come under the influence of that law. There were many illustrations, photographs of various properties at an exclusive location. It's listed hundreds of names in different environments. It all ended with an extra profit for a few political inexperiences. In each election campaign, it responded that citizens would finally find out who robbed them and destitute them. But nothing happened except that the new government not only continued but stole worse and robbed its citizens. I remember, dear colleagues, as well as many of you, saying that by the reputation of Italian courts and laws that struck the most difficult blow to the Italian mafia, they would even bring in Italian government members and judges who took away the mob's assets that would happen to us. And what happened? The yellows came, hanging on to Serbia in black, leaving no stone on stone, destroying the country, carrying out Serbia's economic genocide and who was responding, and we will see after this law of yours who will answer. I've led all of this to point out and underline to see if political practice will continue beyond this law. As far as this bill is concerned, in the end, the Serbian Radical Party believes that such a law should not have been passed for reasons other than the 75% special tax, nothing that is not contained in any of the previous laws of this profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72504	Thank you, Professor Boyich. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have submitted an amendment to Article 25, by proposing that the level of fine be corrected. So I suggest that it be 500,000 and replace the part that was applied in the 500,000 proposal to replace it with 1,000.000,00 dinars. There's a reason for that, someone would have to be held accountable if they didn't provide information to the competent national authority. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Sreto Peric, the Serbian Radical Party MP spoke of Article 23. It's a security check. Dear fellow MPs, since I worked in the security services, I cannot agree with a bill like this that provides for a face-check by talking to citizens. Please, you know what that means? I had a chance to check out the cops and the referents who gave me the false reports, because they went to the neighbor of the person who was being checked, and the neighbor wasn't in good contact with that person, and he was giving the most negative reviews and information about that person, and that I subsequently checked through all the records and found that it was an honorable man. Well, you see, he says that the check is done by talking to citizens. Now, that's your security assessment. Let's ask the people who work at the BIA if this can be accepted and can it be deposited and entrusted to the Director of the Tax Administration? I don't think that should have been predicted and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, these days, a number of citizens of Panchev have been calling for the Ministry of Construction to resolve the issue of Beovoza, for the citizens of Panchev, because the Ministry of Construction punished them and Beovoz only goes to Ovca and went 25 years to Pancheva. Now we need to check where 42,000,000 euros of Russian credit was spent. Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic has not answered my three questions. How were the funds used on the Pancheva Bridge on the Danube? What's the condition of that bridge, people? What citizens don't fall, there's no fence. When you take two strips on this side and two strips on the other side, it's a few kilometers, it's about four, five kilometers, the fences are rotten, the bridge is in terrible shape, and Pančence is punished by Zorana Mihajlovic. So, ladies and gentlemen, here's the minister, Mr. Mali, who can possibly ask this case at the government because that question deserves 15,000 citizens to travel daily from Panchev to Belgrade, it's students, students and workers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking the government to exercise control and check and to allow the Pancians to use this "Beovod" that they have used for 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72506	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you certainly know who Borko Stefanovic is, no matter what he changed his name, residence, party, say past the road from the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Vojvodine Reformist, then the Civil Union, then the Democratic Party, then left Serbia, then the Freedom and Justice Party, Dragan Gilas, if there is freedom and justice, I mean the more radical name they couldn't choose for themselves. I especially found his left hand interesting. He tried to represent himself as some poor person who advocates the rights of the poor. The more his left hand looked to me, the more his left hand to my right pocket. Let's see, this critic, Borko Stefanovic, what he did in his political career. Of course, his father was one of the directors of NIS during Slobodan Milosevic, his uncle was one of the main people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and about his career was moving there. He is known as the director of the foreign ministry, while Vuk Jeremic was a minister, they are famous oilers, well-known thugs, so let's see, this Borko Stefanovic negotiated the NIS price for 400,000.000,00 euros. For 400,000.000,00 euros, which was later a one-year profit of NIS, Mr Stefanovic sold two refineries, 497 gas stations, 1,600 petrol stations, a building in Novi Sad, a building in Belgrade, motels, hotels, resorts and so on, all for 400,000.000,00 euros. That's why I would seriously deal with Borko Stefanovic if possible, of course, because if you look for him, while he was negotiating then his name was Borislav Stefanovic, so I guess, that he's cheating on his left hand, his right hand, changed his identity and residence, and became Borko Stefanovic from Belgrade, is no longer Borislav Stefanovic from Novi Sad. This Borko Stefanovic is also known for another case, which can be witnessed by a former ambassador to Israel named Mile Isakov, our great opponent, especially mine. Mile Isakov says the "left hand, right pocket", left Serbia's left hand, Borko Stefanovic chatted $20.000.000.00 during a deal with the Israelis over that "Satellite" affair. Look at the wonders, just Borko Stefanovic negotiated the "Satellite" affair. It's that satellite rental famous, when the SCG and the Israelis agreed to rent a satellite for 30.40m euros, to be leased by a federal state and paid only for by Serbia. It's a weird deal. Look at the wonders, the negotiators were, I guess, some supreme council or what it was called - Milo Djukanovic on behalf of Montenegro, Svetozar Marovic on behalf of the federal state or the union of Serbia-Montenegro and Boris Tadic, president of Serbia. Three Montenegrins agreed to rent a satellite from the federal state but to pay only from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course, when the dispute took place, it was the Republic of Serbia who had to take out and Borko Stefanovic made a strange settlement, the Israelis offered to forgive it for 12m euros, and Borko Stefanovic sprayed and paid nicely for the 27.5m-euro alignment. That is best testified by Mile Isakov, a former ambassador in their time, who says that when he discovered the case, he was replaced by Ambassador Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic, who probably shared the money. Therefore, within the meaning of this law, all other laws act, and I ask the authorities of the internal affairs and other competent authorities to examine it nicely for the NIS negotiator, the famous Borko Stefanovic, the leader of the "left hand, right pocket", as he criticises the law most, that these two big jobs worth tens of millions of euros are thoroughly tested. I don't think it's an extenuating circumstance that he changed his name, last name and residence, that he could still be found under the lap of Dragan Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72508	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. In response, according to the amendment, MP Dragan Jovanovic came forward. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72509	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, for days we've been talking about the law of origin of property. For days, we've been talking about a law that probably should have been on this tide before, but what I wanted to ask Mr. Minister is one thing. I don't know if he's familiar with the fact that maybe I'm the only MP in this tide that the Ministry of Finance did cross-examination on the origin of the property in 2012. Why did my fellow Members and colleagues do this to me? Well, just because I was the only opposition president of the municipality at that time in Shumadia, and even in central Serbia, the yellow opposition government at that time. I honestly didn't think they'd get any worse and I wouldn't get into any more of that kind of trouble, and that at least in this time, by 2020, at least they'd be questioned like they did to me, but obviously it didn't happen. Why didn't that happen? I asked you and I'm asking the fellow MPs here. It is an interesting situation, gentlemen, because some who did the same in 2012, on behalf of the Democratic Party. And they sat here on my right, like Aleksandar Senic, meanwhile, flew to SNS and because it's an interesting story, dear friends. The man who was here on our right and shot at the SNS, here told Mr. Orlic and me at the TV duel, who I wore the list of Aleksandra Vukic – Dragan Jovanovic at the bar in Šumadia, that he would not shave while Aleksandar Vukic and his bandits were in power. Look, he told me himself that same man. Just to hear it, gentlemen, so you can see who needs to be questioned. Why is this important? This is what the media should hear. That same gentleman today is a humane... Be careful, the man who said that Serbia is occupied by the cost of Vucic and its robbers, today in Šumadia, measures the blood grain who is and how much for Vukic? Do you also believe that this minister can believe what he's listening to? Why is that important, gentlemen dear? Because the gentleman flew into the SNS, he got a chair in the Corridors of Serbia. In three years, everyone can go, with an eye, to see that between Topola and Race in the village of Sepci, a multimillion-euro facility is being built. Look out, in three years' time, if anyone is to me as a man who is 15 years head of the municipality, third term as a national envoy. In the second room in 2008 or 2007, Mr. Vukic, and I was among them, Dinkic wore a prison suit. Remember you, gentlemen of the radicals, how it was? Now these same people have changed their uniforms. Will they be tested for the origin of the property? Their secretary of state threatened me personally in 2012 and told me what I was doing. In 2009 or 2010, at the first meeting of the Serbian Progressive Party and New Serbia in Krusevec, we led ten buses from Topola, the first rally where Toma and Vukic were presented. At that time, the same people who were then the biggest backbone of the Democratic Party, all the tax administrations harassed privates in Topoli who helped fuel and pay for the bus. Today, these same people, changed to Serbian Progressive Party uniforms, are paying euros for buses to allegedly lead and drive people around Serbia. Is it possible and will it, Mr. Mali, be examined, to see how in three years in the Corridors of Serbia, a man has earned to create a multi-million-euro distillery? Do you know, Mr. Mali, that everyone in Shumadia knows, there are honourable MPs sitting on my left, they can confirm it, that a man brings in companies that are paved on Corridor 10, that they're paved by chairs, courtyards and everything else around that distillery, and he publicly boasts that his godfather is the deputy minister of police and that no one can do anything to him? That same man now says - I'm SNS and no one can do anything to me. Therefore, unfortunately, dear friends, I have to raise my voice and say - if Dragan Jovanovic could be questioned by the Ministry of Finance and the blood cells and everything else to do, I think that these people should also be fundamentally examined for the origin of the property, regardless of what they changed the party's uniform. That's what Dragan Jovanovic didn't do and now I'm being harassed earlier by yellow, and now they're just changing their uniforms and saying -- we're the Serbian Progressive Party, no one can do anything to us. This, gentlemen dear, is an inadmissible thing, and for that reason, because of the people and the honorable Sumadinians, this had to be said also because of these honorable men sitting here on my left, to know what they had all taken into their ranks. Thank you very much and goodbye!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72510	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Jovanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72511	And before this law, which I repeat is anti-constitutional, you set up some special forces and tax administrations, special forces have begun to come in Serbia. Is it normal, Mr. Minister, next to the living and healthy director of the IRS, which I have known for 30 years, Selimir Glisic, in Kragujevac, that you send some humanist from Kruševec to come... What's up, Dragan? Milivojevic from Kruševac that he organizes the work of the Tax Administration in Kragujevac? If you have a seat at the Ministry of Belgrade, the one from Kruševac should be arrested somewhere, which otherwise knows absolutely nothing about the Kragujeva economy, business, and entrepreneurs, which Selimir Glisic has in his small finger, he will probably retire within a year. You play like that and harass the businessmen of the town of Kragujevac. Now, this article says "Corruption Prevention Agency." What agency is that? There is a Anti-Corruption Agency concerning public elected officials, i.e. the Anti-Corruption Agency. That's his name. That's the right name. If you're going to make up a new anti-corruption agency now to enforce this inconclusive law, which will certainly be brought to appeal to the Constitutional Court, then I'm sure you're playing some of the things that concern the very serious work of other state authorities. Not only the court, which is spoken of by a colleague of Radeta, that you now need to train judges, but also the authorities of the tax administration, and ultimately, Mr. Minister, and the banking sector. In every bank, you know very well, there's a risk sector, there's a sector that deals with the prevention of money laundering, and by international standards, one that works there, well, with a set of circumstances, and some of my friends are working on such responsible jobs in certain banks in this country, they are obliged to use the indicator so-called. suspicious transactions see what it's about when it comes to buying. Of course, there are various abuses, they do their job, but he comes from the board of directors and says, "cut it, don't give it to this, and that means it's all farce." Because such a relationship and the gills of these yellows who flew like that Senic mobster from Raca to SNS, there's nothing anyone can do about it. For now it is, but we will see, there will come a time when justice and law will be required, may be slow but reachable, to be respected in such cases. We have a situation, Mr. Minister, here, now that this law is really funny, and even more ridiculous was the explanation of Heavenly Stefanovic that day that someone held in the straw 150 thousand and one euro. So much, that means more than 150,000. How are you, like, keeping that money in the straw, not taking it to any bank, not buying any real estate that you're now dealing with determining the origin of that money? Instead of inviting nice people to come, and we said now, since you sold the Commercial Bank in this way, to do it at the Post Office Bank, to bring your money and that by opening your account and laying down your money, they can, therefore, enter legal flows and buy real estate and use it for other purposes, you're doing some phantom investigations and you're trying to find out this law that something that can't be done without these other organs is going to happen. Then just cut it out nicely with the Ministry of the Interior, what do you need, then, the Anti-Corruption Authority, the tax inspectors and all the other authorities, because you're making some new paraorgans, like in this Article 28th and some kind of anti-corruption agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72512	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72513	Here, this is the last or just the last amendment to this bill, and it really deserves, first of all, for the public to kind of round up the story of what you've tried to represent as something that I don't know who's going to live better. There are two reasons why you're passing this law. The main reason is the pre-election campaign. This will serve you as an election campaign, and what are the two reasons for this? First, you address people who, unfortunately, in Serbia, are the most difficult to live on, who have abnormally small pensions, who work for minimum income, who do not have enough resources for basic living, you address them and you say -- well, you see, all those who are rich, we're going to take that away from them because we don't know how they got rich. That's one side of the story. The second reason is that you are, in fact, talking now, is also very important to you in the pre-election campaign, to people who have a lot of money, who have expensive immovableities, to remind them by this law that they were not broad enough hands in worshiping your local committees, financing campaigns, etc. Now, when it turns out he's not having a hard time locating out a certain asset, which they're fine with there, he can be safe, no one will touch his property. It's something you've seen before. You usually prescribe what these people used to do before you, so it's no wonder what you're doing. It's already been seen at BK's company in time. Now, before I go any further on this bill, I need to get back to the amendment that I was just explaining to you that you're trying to get special judges to train some people to be special judges for this area. Here, you see, there are judges who aren't special forces, who are normal judges, who do their job and what work they do according to the law. Now we're asking that more judges like this, here I don't even know what the judge's name is, it's Leskovec, but Predrag Kostic, a public executioner from Leskovec, got five years in prison because he gave 27 million dinars from his son's dedicated account for two and a half years. Imagine what public executioners do and they will not be subject to this law. Their property is legal, their robbery is legal. How many bank accounts they have, how many properties they have for these last few years, no one will touch them, for my God, you have lawfully allowed them to take their skin off of people's backs, to rob them unwittingly. If you were really honest when you were making this bill, when you were thinking about this law, you would have done something good for the state of Serbia. First of all, you wouldn't have sold the Commercial Bank. The governor tells you a few days ago: "The state should not sell the Commercial", and then the signing of the contract began. What's the National Bank for? What's her role when it comes to state banks? So, instead of inviting all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to bring money to their country, to invest it in the Post Office, you are making people hide money by this law, that until the law enters into force, the law cannot be retroactively applied. So, here, today everyone can run around to raise money from Serbia and carry it out there somewhere outside Serbia. Today they can make, I don't know how many, gift contracts, fictitious purchases, etc., when the law comes into force, Marko Markovic owns nothing, but Janko Jankovic, shared with some other Petar Petrovic there. So the two of them divided, all three actually made a nice deal and no one is subject to this law. In this way, the law is played, so the prices of immovableity will fall. This creates legal uncertainty. You think everything is as nice as it sounds and what's nice for the people to hear you, a lot of people would be more happy for you, Minister, if you said you'd raise the lowest profit, at least to the level of the lowest consumer basket, that pensions would be the lowest at least at the level of the lowest consumer basket. That's what people are interested in. You want people to make them envious of neighbors, relatives, friends if they have anything. What happens if someone has an estate of 149.999 million? What's gonna happen to him? Nothing. But if he's got a round 150, he falls under this law. You didn't do anything right, believe me, absolutely nothing. But if you're already passing this law, now we're going to teach you nicely and teach you who you need to pay particular attention to. You claim to be leaving your yard. Well, we'll see how much that yard's working out for you. We remind you again, Djelic, Pitic, Vlahovic, Labus, Dinkic, they are graves of the Serbian economy. They began destroying the economy in the Republic of Serbia. They're the creators and realisers of criminal thieving affairs. You promised, many are involved in those 24 controversial privatisations, you promised to solve them. Even so, you promised, only eight years ago, where you'd sooner, there were more pressing jobs. So, first of all, until they're out of date for criminal prosecution, which is by the end of this year or somewhere by September, do it if you really want to fight corruption and crime. I don't know who else you're calling, Wolf Jeremic, etc. We agree with you. It's clear they're thieves, but how is it possible that you have all the levers of power, that thieves are walking, something else calling you? Something doesn't make sense. It's not normal. Here the other day, a colleague said he was behind Gilas, he stole how many hundreds of millions, similar to Zoran for "Bechtel", about that value, and he says -- behind Gilas will remain only that debt. No, he'll stay, the bridge remains, and that debt was made because he stole it, but it will be a debt from the Serbian state. The same will remain part of the Moravia Corridor, it will remain, and Zorana will take 300m euros. Who's going to answer? No one will, because you don't want to deal with these problems the right way. What's going to happen, where are all the money that was stolen in corruption affairs through public procurement? This is where all possible representatives of independent regulatory bodies were worked out. We discussed all the reports here, you adopted them. Each said there was a serious problem and serious amounts of money went missing through abuse or avoidance of full public procurement. How is this law going to solve? Not at all, because that's not your point either, of course. In the first part we spoke, we mentioned when you will, will you examine Tomislav Nikolic's assets under this law? Here, again, a house in Senjak, an apartment in a smart building, three villas on Sava, a Latifundi in Bajcetina, a church in Bajcetina, houses in Kragujevac and Dragica and Dragica Foundation. Is that what you're gonna do? I'm afraid you won't. If you'll explain, there is no Heavenly Stefanovic today, I would ask him directly, since we are talking about what the public is talking about. Bruja about the villa of Nebojsa Stefanovic on Bezanjska hair. Vukic himself said that he had come to this villa by selling a previous 90 - square - square apartment with a garage. Our question is, how did he get to that apartment with the garage? How'd he buy that? What pay? Where did he work? So don't think nobody knows anything because, well, you don't find it interesting to talk about it. O Zoran, according to this law must be examined the price of her, imagine, both the brooch and the gloves and the necklaces and the pendants and the purse. That woman carries at least 20,000 euros on her at any time. From where? It is not a problem that she, too, is Dragica Nikolic while she was in public and she carried fifteen thousand euros, Diora, etc., of some sets. From where? That's the question. Maybe a lot of us would wear such pretty suits and those pretty broochies, but they're gone. Will you go abroad with this law? Our citizens are at stake. Are you going to see, under this law, how Jorgenka Tabakovic bought her daughter's apartment in Rome? Will you ask that? You won't. We said that even false diplomas should be subject to questioning under this law, because Jorganka Tabakovic became governor based on a fake doctorate and earns 5,000 euros a month. So it's very connected. Nebojsa Stefanovic, whose diploma from basic studies, let alone doctorate, is also a minister and earns, not only earns, but has the possibility of a special communication with Krusik, so his dad can export Krasukovo's weapons at the cost of how much it says that Krusik has lost because of him. So you can't hide. You have to sit there and ask nicely and answer nicely. This isn't personal. We're MPs, you're government. And we need to talk this way. We need to talk about this law both from the aspect of the Constitution and from the aspect of its constitutionality. I forgot, you have so many ministerial affairs that simply a man can't mention them all. I almost forgot this Vanya Widow. Vanja Udovici, they put someone in jail, like Zorana's co-workers in prison, and she's walking. He gave a phantom company 143 million dinars for some European university games in 2020. Are you going to question the huge money Rasim Ljajic won as the head of the drug mob? You won't. What we're talking about isn't just stories. All you have to do is take this. However, you could do all this and you can still work under existing criminal law. And you didn't need this law at all. We repeat, you are only boasting of this law, because now people say – here, it is good for them, to pass the Law on the origin of the property. And what's going to happen? The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. We warn people who have a lot of money to take care of, they'll probably have to give a racket to ruling parties to be spared from the beatings of this law. And all those who have not given you enough racquets, you call them public. You don't think you know that, too? Not all rich people in Belgrade and not all people with suspicious wealth in Belgrade. Wait a minute for Serbia. Look by local self-government what your racketeeres do, what your community presidents do, how they take money, how they recruit people and those who would honestly do and make some money. Those who are not too honest are easy to deal with. They give them as much as they need, as much as they need a quiet Buck. That's not how it's gonna work. It's not a serious relationship to the people, first of all. Do not tell the people that you will do something epochal because you have proposed this law and that you will adopt it. You two ministers, very nice to be in tandem, Mr. Mali and Mr. Djordjevic. Maybe we won't see each other until the next election is over and over again. I have asked you many times on behalf of the SRS and on behalf of the Serbian people, are you doing anything to make the lowest salary in Serbia at least 37,000, how much is the lowest consumer basket, and to make the lowest pension at least 37,000 dinars, how much is the lowest consumer basket? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72514	Thank you. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72515	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on a proposal for a law establishing the origin of property and a special tax, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 29. The bill, after the word "Serbia" the rest of the text is deleted. For decades it has been so pompously announced and in every election campaign, this law has been threatened, for example, by previous authorities, but it has been years, by the authorities, and by the law, not in sight. We welcome the final proposal for a law establishing the origin of the property. Right now, I'm disappointed by this ridiculous edition of the 29-member bill. There's nothing in it that hasn't already been contained in one of the tax laws, except for a 75% special tax. Only two sentences in this bill are important, and all others could be found through some changes and additions to one of the laws that regulate this problem. To whom the law will apply, from when it will apply, and especially how it will protect those who are under its grip, everything is unknown. I therefore share the view of my SRS that such a law is unnecessary and that the effects of its application will not in any way justify the objectives of this law drawn up by the proposer. In order for this law to have an effect, in order to justify what you are hinting at, then all your potential expertise and other capacities must be hired and started by yourself, as you promised. I expect that Mr. Minister, who sat there during the discussion of the radicals, wrote a draft of a new law and this bill should be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72516	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are now moving to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE SUPPLICE OF THE PARISH PROGRAMME. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Djordje Komlenski, Dr Aleksandar Martinović, Aleksandar Seselj, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic and MP Djordje Komlenski. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72517	The law on litigation is one procedural law governing the way and procedure of conduct of a particular court dispute. Following the problems that arise in the enforcement process, the Ministry of Justice felt that it should intervene in this Bill proposal, that is, this article, where, when it comes to a verdict, which has the character of an executive document, so if a natural person is to enter its unique birth number, if it is the economic operators, then the home number, if it is the organisational units or the state of Serbia, then enter the characteristic numbers that follow them. This is how it should be, that the Ministry of Justice monitors other activities in the execution process, not just how and how to carry out the execution more easily. Of course, it should not be omitted from the fact that this could, to some extent, and that the cheap execution procedure for executive debtors, because so far any attempt to deliver a verdict or execution in any way with the debtor had huge costs for the executive debtor. This if it leads to this particular improvement, i.e. cost reduction, could be a positive shift for debtors. But this is just one little thing. This is a small matter, and it was a very interesting question for Ms. Radete and the SRS – will this previous law that we talked about also in the debate in principle, and even when we discussed our amendments, apply to public perpetrators? There is a clear answer – of course it will not apply, because in the first article of this previous law it is already said that it will refer only to natural persons. Now let's not open the big controversy about... Otherwise, the proposal for this law has a total of two members. Thus, Article 1 explains how and how it will be easier to identify mostly executive debtors, and Article 2 speaks when the law should enter into force. (President: Thank you. Finish your thought. ) Given that it was foreseen that the law would enter into force on 1 January 2020, and we are only discussing it today in particular, we have suggested that it be from 1 March 2020, quite logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72518	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72519	My colleagues are angry yesterday when I said that, in fact, there are empty drawers in the Assembly right now, and that the agenda is so wide, they're grandmothers and frogs again, but here's the evidence. We received another 22 November from the Government proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Prosecution and the law was to come into force, the government proposed, on 1 January 2020. Now we ask – did he suffer any damage because the law was not passed on time and did not enter into force on 1 January 2020? If he is, who is, how will he respond, will he answer? If it isn't, then it means that these changes aren't necessary. If he didn't have to come into force on January 1st this year, here's two months ago, so we don't need these changes at all. I just got word that Zlatibor Loncar got very angry that I hadn't mentioned him before, because he says that his property should be reconsidered, too. I guess he meant how he got to the apartment, from which criminals got an apartment. I remind you of a statement by Alexander Vukic of June 2019 when he said that God's Father did not know where the health care money was going. Twenty percent of the health care budget, says Vukitch, here, to get me killed now, I don't know where he's going. So, neither Father God nor God Vukic knows where 20% is going, Vukic said, the funds planned from the health care budget. Now you can say how much is being built in health care, how much is being done, what we see is a fact, but here's the law, so look into this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72520	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Bonded Relations. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Marijan Risticevic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Sreto Peric, Nemanja Sarovic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72521	During the DOS government, there were amazing cases, including one such, I remembered when it began to list all that they had robbed, that Transport Minister Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic had made it possible for her mother-in-law to take huge money from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, did she, Mr Martinovic, at the time. A few million, I mean, five or six million dinars for some kind of production in the village where that man came from and they opened up, imagine, Mr. Marinkovic, you were younger then, so maybe you don't remember that, the nightclub. Minister Mali is coming out. Has the Ministry of Finance questioned him for a period of time, since you were in power, after you drove out that malversator and Ukrainian mercenaries, the Vujovic, determined who was all over Mladjan Dinkic, so on his signature or one of his own, taking huge money from the Development Fund? Look, it was a big robbery. These coded G17s founded a special ministry run by Verica Kalanovic for investment projects, but as it was called, where Alexic from Tristenik knows best, comes and says – I need so much and so much, she says – there's no problem, there's money with me, here's you. The second one comes, the third one comes. All that money is "the robbery of the Republic of Serbia's budget", citizens have entered some legal flows. There have also been such cases of writing to an entrepreneur – here are you 100,000, this 50,000, all because they could do it. Now you're putting a man in a position to buy something like that from someone, let's say this law goes into effect, someone who's our gaster, someone who made legal money buying a factory, a company, a catering facility from someone who stole from the state, and now you haven't done anything through the Criminal Procedure Act, but you're now playing something with this impossible law. The Cypriot terrorists, whom this unfortunate Majic, from the Gnjilan group freed, across Serbia, Mr Marinkovic, and most in Nis and southern Serbia buy real estate from drug money, arms trafficking, whatever, because they are villains who have been released, and what crimes they have done is known to be. Who's gonna control that? You want to take away property acquired in that way, an apartment or a house that's being taken to some different faces? Please, don't confuse the people now because the elections are how you're going to solve it, how you're going to execute justice, because you know that the people are bitter about all this robbery, when you know very well that there are a huge number of those who during the yellow, during Dinkic, Vlahovic, Djelic, Pitic and all others, in this way robbed Serbia, right now in your ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72522	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72523	We discussed through other form laws prescribed by law for a contract or a legal job, whether it is for the power to conclude that contract, or to take that deal, but it is interesting that you first start with a law that is not in line, and then we tell you that this law is not in accordance with the Law on Bond Relations, and then you change it through this law later. And this law we're discussing today, the consequence of notaries and executioners. That's how you work when it comes to passing a law you don't care at all how certain matter is regulated by some other law that's system law, as prescribed by the Constitution, and that's why you pass laws that are inapplicable, that can't be applied within the time you write that law begins. That is why today we have this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Liabilities, which, formally speaking in this regard, which you have proposed, should change. But here again is the problem of the essence, and the essence is notaries and perpetrators, and I must remind you that the SRS has submitted a new draft law on executive procedure and security, and that we are supported by more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that you, dear colleagues, do not by any chance want to discuss this law, and we have here a debate on the laws of individual MPs and Nenada Canka and Gordana Comic and we will have on Monday a proposal from the other three colleagues in this National Assembly, but when something is proposed by the SRS, even if it required more than 100,000 citizens, you do not care because you are not interested in the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72524	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As regards the proposal for this law, which was laid down in Article 3 of the Treaty, with the need to comply with the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, because the Law on State Crossing and Cataster does not refer to immovable matters, but talks about immovableities. Ladies and gentlemen, ever since the land book moved to the Catastre, Serbia has been having major problems because in the previous period we have had orderly keeping records and recording of immovableity while it was in application of the land book. The Earth Book was a fiction of absolute accuracy. It was not easy to falsify and the court controlled its referents whether they applied the law properly and entered the right of ownership or not. However, as the land book became a public register, first of all, a catastre, Serbian citizens have been having huge problems ever since. These problems are reflected in the fact that unprofessional people in the catastro are misrepresenting property rights, so citizens have to complain to the second-degree body, so the second-degree body was, above all, the Ministry of Construction, headed by Minister Zoran Mihajlovic, and during the course of its work, from the beginning until one year ago, it had 36,000 unsolved items in drawers, and those 36,000 items were related to citizens who suffered damage because they could not exercise their rights, nor were they trafficked their immovableities. (President: Bring the end. I'll finish, Mr. Vice President. When it comes to Article 3. - the form of the contract, the form of the contract should be contained in this article precisely, not referring to any other laws. Because the contract must presuppose, above all, the party, the subject of the contract, the price and the clause of the intabuland. I think the form of that contract should be predicted here, what it should contain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72526	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I'm concluding the search. Miladin Ševarlic: By amendment. Comrade Chevarlich, you're really late. Miladin Shevarlic throws. You're too late. I'm closing this search. I can't predict what's going to happen. We've got another one, so call me back. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Bill on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: the Belief of Radet, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Dr. Aleksandar Martinović, Miodrag Linta, Bozidar Delić, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić, Sreto Perić, Nemanja Sarović, Nikola Savić, Marijan Rističević, Filip Stojanović, Đorđe Milić, Ružica Nikolic, Zoran Despotović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Petar Jojić, Aleksandra Belačić, Vesna Nikolović and Ljiljana Mihajlović. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72527	Yes, we have submitted this amendment to Article 1 and a few other members, and the same is the essence. You in this law for the dead fighters, you say the fighters have fallen. We think it's an inappropriate expression, that these are relics of some other communist terminology, and we're just surprised that you didn't accept to change here where we've been looking for amendments, as well as in the whole of the law. You know, you're saying that this law regulates the rights and conditions for the exercise of rights of fighters, military disabled people, civilian disabled wars, members of families of fallen and dead fighters, and dead military disabled people. So, you say nice things about dead military cripples, and here you say the fallen fighters. You know, these people didn't trip, so they fell, they're fighters who fought in the country wars, who gave their lives in the country wars and deserve every kind of respect, including this term. So we insist that for every fighter who's dead, say the dead fighter. Indeed, Minister, think about it, accept these amendments. If you haven't already accepted what these wartime disabled men have been protesting for months, strike, winter winters in this park, you're passing this law and you haven't fulfilled what they expect from their country, then at least show respect in this termological part. So, when we spoke and in principle debated this bill, General Delic himself proposed a law that regulates the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil invalids of war and members of their families and much better and much more comprehensively, he proposed it. Through the amendments, we're also trying to fix this bill for you. For this law we will not say that it is unnecessary and that it is absolutely bad, it is necessary, it is not bad, but it can be and could be much better. Have hearing for the fighters who gave their lives or parts of their bodies, fighting for their homeland. That's not a phrase, that's true. If not, look at the environment, who doesn't respect his fighters, who doesn't respect the families of fallen fighters, who doesn't respect disabled wars, he doesn't know what the state is, he doesn't respect the state, he doesn't know what it means to fight in any way for his country, for his country. Please accept this amendment, as well as the other amendments, to show respect for the fallen, as you say, and we say to the dead country war fighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72528	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72529	Here's Mrs. Radeta and most of us here in the O.R. in our families have Serbian country war fighters, and it's really inappropriate for us Serbian radicals to have a name like this because they died defending their country and Serbia. Many of them have left families in the water, young children as orphans and rights and children and their family members, according to us, Serbian radicals should be a national category. You weren't there, Mr. Minister, a few days ago we raised the issue and that question, that as in Republika Srpska and Serbia, the loss and struggle to preserve Western Serbian countries should be called the Serbian country war. You know that yourself, the official name in Republika Srpska, and for years there has been a struggle for the rights of the Serbian country war. However, with later changes and additions, they have gained somewhat greater rights than these under this law here. Of course, they're not happy all the way. If this could have been seen and resolved in such a way and the basis for their assistance was calculated in a more adequate way, and the money is in the budget, then you should accept the amendments and explanations, above all that General Delic gave you, because we will respect the families of the dead fighters, so indeed in the true sense of the words of the Spanish heroes, as well as the disabled Serbian fatherly war, something that will be a guideline to future generations. To know that there are people who have been prepared to defend their country and Serbia, unlike various deserters, both those who sit here, or, right now, are not sitting in congregation benches from these pro-Western parties, both from all those Western European and American agents in many NGOs. You pay from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, Natasu Kandic, Jelena Milic, and those who are against the interests of this country, above all Kandićka, who is one proven evil and who, apart from taking part directly in writing false charges against the country's political and military summit, claims that Srebrenica was genocide. So, for those you have money and it's scandalous and unacceptable, and for the fighters, the disabled and the members of their families you give it this way, it starts with a base, and then it's through help that's not adequate and that they absolutely can't give the most basic medications, or the supplies they need to buy, to do so. You know, awareness that the state is in danger, Serbia's country and that it should defend itself, is something that every child in a normal Serbian family has been carrying, as it has been said since the cradle hit him. And if everyone, who is protesting all these days and in the park across from the Assembly, in front of the presidency and coming to us for the talks and we went to them, has also called all the MP groups, if they say today, that God forbid that tomorrow the country of Serbia is at risk, so are these fighters who were with the famous General Delic at Paštrik, they are all fighters from Koshar, that is, all those who went as volunteers in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, then we can't, at the end and with him feelings, it's our moral obligation and responsibility, i.e. the states and their families to play in such a way as to say that some of their demands are megalomanic, like this or like that. So, within the framework, there, at the end of the only good will of the Government to finally pass such a law, and General Delic is as an MP of the SRS, taking into account his contacts and the trouble he shares with them, for decades ago he submitted the bill on the rights of the fighters and members of the families of the killed fighters, consider as the most well-meaning all of what we wrote to these amendments, and so accept this amendment that it is also the death of the Serb country war fighters, as well as the fighters who fought for our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, which we must protect and defend, as the greatest Serb sanctity.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72530	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72531	Thank you. Here, now I've got the materials. The 5th proposed change defined a fighter who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and defined nine points. Since armed conflicts and combat facts were on the territory of the land security zone between 23 March 2001 and 30 June 2001, this should also be included in the draft of this law, i.e. in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72532	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. According to the amendment, Dr Jahja Fehratovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72533	Thank you. It is precisely in Prijepolje that a memorial academy is held for 18 killed civilians and a former retired JNA captain who was abducted from the train in Strpci in 1993 as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, taken in some direction and liquidated. So 27 years have ended since the crime committed against citizens of the Republic of Serbia, over 18 Bosniaks and one Croat, for whom indictments have been brought, have been prosecuted before courts in Serbia, BiH, in Montenegro, by certain members of paramilitary organisations. Some processes are still happening, but unfortunately the families of the murdered and kidnapped still face the fact that everything for a few remains were found, that most have not yet been found and that there is no mention of the markings, that there is no place for their graves and so on. As it faces the fact that they have not been recognised the status of civilian victims of war and that they have no satisfaction whatsoever, a reparation from the authorities of the Serbian state. I think the adoption of this law is an opportunity to in some way, in addition to giving this act, I want to honor all civilian victims of the 90s wars, as well as these civilian victims who today turn 27 from kidnapping and murder, and so to all others. I call on both the Government and the Minister and all those responsible to really consider that all those who were citizens of this country, who carried the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the religion and the nation, who are civilian victims of the war, recognize this right and that they, or their families, are waiting to receive that status of civilian victims of war and thus acquire certain rights that follow them according to the law and to all that they have survived. As well as the fact that special efforts are made to find remains for the rest of them that we still don't know where they are or what families they keep looking for. Here, every year on this day in Prijepolje they remember warning us all in a way that we face everything that has happened to us in the past, we can go to a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72534	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72535	Dear Mr. Djordjevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to express my regret and dissatisfaction that the Government, at the proposal of Minister Djordjevic, rejected my amendment, which I asked to supplement Article 5. Proposal for a law on rights of fighters, military invalids, civilian disabled war and members of their families. Seven categories of fighters have been defined in that Article 5, but the eighth category of fighters is not included. I, in my amendment, asked that all members of the Republika Srpska Army be recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. Why did I ask for that? I believe that over 50,000 Krajina fighters fought with honor and pride for the interests of their people, that they fought and fought a defensive war primarily because of the intention of the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman, to create an ethically clean Croatian state without Serbs. So the Krajina didn't want that war at all. The Krajina wanted an agreement with the Croatian people. The landscapes were ready to accept a multiethnic democratic Croatian state, but unfortunately, on the other hand, we had a Ustasha policy whose goal, I repeat, was to banish the ethnic Serbs on the Ustasha principles and on the principles of the Independent State of Croatia. I will list several reasons why I believe that this Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families should be recognised by over 50,000 members of the Republika Srpska Army. I would like to remind you that the state of Serbia has recognised the country's officers and officers, and they have been recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. The question arises, and I have often spoken of it in the Assembly, and with whom did these country officers and officers command, if the state has confessed to their military service, and their fighters have not? Is it possible to recognise only 5% or 10% of the Republika Srpska Army's battle group, and the remaining 90%, 95% of the fighters are not recognised? The Krajina fighters are bitter and dissatisfied because they believe they did not wage a private war. Another reason. I remind Minister Djordjevic that Croatia recognised members of Croatia's larger defence from neighbouring BiH by its law on the rights of Croatian veterans at the end of 2017. Therefore, Croatia has fully equalised all members of Croatia's larger defence from another country with the rights of members of the Croatian military and has not taken note of what Sarajevo will say, what the official Belgrade will say and what the international community will say. She felt that members of the Croatian defence council from BiH were fighting for Croatia's national interests and Croatia respected it with its law. The third argument in favor of my thesis why I believe this law should be recognised by the Krajina fighters, that is, their struggle throughout the double-term war. In 1993, Croatia recognised surviving members of the armed forces of the genocide independent state of Croatia by amending and supplementing the Retirement-Inhabilitation Act. So, she admitted to surviving Ustasha and Domobrans and told them – we recognise your struggle for Croatian state interests, we acknowledge that you have committed genocide against the Serb people, Jews and Roma, we acknowledge that you systematically slaughtered and killed Serbs, and therefore the period from 15 April 1941 to 15 May 1945 will be recognised as a double-term wartime internship for you and you will receive eight years of military service for the massacre of Serbs. If after that, after May 15, you were captured and in prison for three, four, five years, and for that we'll give you a double-term job experience. So, for eight years we've admitted to you, the Ustashas and the natives, for the period when you committed genocide against the Serbian people, the Roma and the Jews and four more, five, six, seven, eight years for the period while you were in prison. To achieve this, the survivors of the Ustashas and the natives needed evidence, usually the state is looking for written evidence. Since the survivors of the Ustashas and the natives in 1993 had no written evidence, then the state said so – they have two prostitute associations that will issue you certificates and assurances that you were in the armed formations of the Independent State of Croatia. You go to these two associations, the Croatian Domobran company, the "Courtesy of the regular Croatian Army", you will get confirmation or confidence. With that confirmation or assurance, you will go to the Croatian Pension Fund or the Institute and will receive a pension on that basis. And since 1993, the surviving Ustashas and the natives have been receiving pensions. According to Zagreb's 2013 morning list, then 13,000 surviving Ustashas and natives or their successors received pensions on average of 300, 400, 500, 600 euros and more, and Croatia spends nearly 50m euros annually from the budget to pay pensions to Ustashas and Dobras. For amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, Croatia has not asked anyone, neither has it asked Belgrade, nor has it asked the international community, she said – the Ustashas fought for Croatian national interests. By this law, Croatian armed forces, according to the proposal of war criminal Franjo Tudjman, are called "the home army". And now you see well, so we have the first homeland war, it's genocide on the Serbian people of NDH and the first homeland army, we have the second homeland war to be waged by Franjo Tudjman, as heir to Ante Pavelic, and we have the Homeland Army. So, the First Homeland Army, the Second Homeland Army, the First Homeland War, the Second Homeland War. The fourth argument why I believe this law should recognise members of Republika Srpska's army as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. We all know well that Nazi Hitler's Germany caused World War II, that the brutally defeated and punished German people, a denakification, for the reason that Hitler's Germany committed a terrible genocide, the Holocaust, committed aggression, was guilty of this war. What did postwar Germany do? All six years after the war, in 1951, this German who distanced himself from Hitler, from the Third Reich, from Hitler's Germany, passed a law where she said – to all German Vermacht, to all SS formations since 1951, we pay out pensions because they fought for German interests, except those found to have committed war crimes, crimes against humanity. According to data from February last year, German pensions are also received by members of Germany's Vermaht and SS formations that are not Germans, who are members of other peoples. According to these data, more than 2,000 people from the areas of European states, America and other parts of the world are receiving pensions from the German budget for the eastern front wars, at the Balkan battlefield, on other battlefields, ranging from 400, 500 euros to 1,300 euros. Today, 71 Croats who were a member of the German Vermacht and SS Division are receiving pensions from the German budget of 500, 600, 700, 800 euros. This Germany appreciates the battle of Croats in German Vermacht units. Now it turns out that the Krajina fighters are worse than the Ustasha, now it turns out that the Krajina fighters are worse than the Nazis because, I repeat, Germany did not collapse six years after the war to pay pensions to German Vermaht and SS formations and Croatia has not been able to pay pensions to surviving Ustashas since 1993. Now the Krajits wonder, wait, whose are we? In an explanation of the government that rejected my amendment, and my amendment reads: "Article 5(1), post-point 5a), which reads that as a fighter, a member of the Serbian Army of the Krajina and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia is recognised in areas protected by the United Nations, which participated in armed actions after 27 April 1992 until 12 November 1997 in the area under the protection of the United Nations Peace Corps, based on United Nations Security Council Resolution, No 743 of 27 February 1992, the Vens Plan, and the Law on the validity of the legal system in the work of the SFRY territory, which was under the special protection of the United Nations since 20 March 1992". In an explanation for the refusal of my amendment, I quote: "There is a great risk that a legal solution relating to the recognition of the status of a fighter in the Republic of Serbia, which would include other categories of members of the local armed forces, therefore, in this case members of the Serbian Army of the Krajina and the Ministry of Interior of the Republika Srpska, could produce a negative effect not only in the environment, but also in the relations of the Republic of Serbia and the international community. So what could Croatia tell us to recognize members of the Republika Srpska Army, namely their fair fight against the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman throughout the double-term war? So what can you tell us, gentlemen of the Croats, when you have recognised members of the Croatian Council of Defence from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina? There was the Republic of Herceg-Bosnia, she disappeared, and you recognized the fighters of the Republic of Herceg-Bosnia. There was a Republika Srpska Krajina, which disappeared not because of the military victory of the Croatian army, but mainly because of the policy of double standards of the Western centres of power and the irresponsible politics of the then government in Serbia. What do you have against us if we have confessed to the Krajina fighters, when you have recognised members of the Croatian Council of Defense? Another thing that you have for us to resent is that we recognize the Krajina fighters, when you confessed to the Ustashas, you confessed to the locals. You have confessed to them for eight years, or four years during the NDH twice because you have committed genocide against our people. What would you object to from Zagreb? You must cover your ears and keep your mouth shut. What would they blame us for from the international community? What would Germany blame us for? I apologize, gentlemen in Berlin, so in 1951, you gave your laws to the German Vermacht and the ESS formations, so I guess we can also recognize the Krajina fighters who led the fair, fair fight against the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman. So, I believe that this argument of the government is not justified, is not based on facts, and I have now given four examples, four concrete evidence why I believe that my amendment should be adopted, to correct the historical injustice of more than 50,000 members of the Republika Srpska Army and to recognise not only the Krajina fighters, but all the Krajina. I hope that Minister Djordjevic here will respect these four arguments, and that even before the vote on the Bill of Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families, we will discuss, that this amendment be adopted and that it becomes an integral part of the new law, which is generally very good. I said it yesterday, which in a unique way, in a systematic way, edits this very complex matter. I've been getting a lot of messages from Krajisnik in the past few days, a lot of calls and e-mails, conversations. Minister Djordjevic, believe me, if this amendment were adopted by the Krajis, we would never forget this. They would indeed say that after 25 years of the end of the war in Croatia, Serbia has fully recognised the Krajisniks and their fair and fair fight against the Ustasha regime, Franjo Tudjman, for the interests of its people, for the interests of the Serbian state and for the interests of Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72536	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72537	By amendment. It is a bit surprising that, in the context of the interpretation of this amendment, a colleague is talking about what someone would resent us for. Well, in Serbia and the Serbian state and the government should take care of what the Croatian Ustasha state would tell us because of some move we made. That's really inappropriate. The amendment was essentially to be accepted by ministers, but the SRS is the only political party and it simply has to be said which recognises the Republic of Serbia's Krajina, the currently occupied Serbian state, which recognises the government of Republika Srpska, which recognises Milan Martic, the president of Republika Srpska, who serves the prison, you know that, in Estonia under incredible conditions without any help and his family is unsettled. He's there even the food he gets in prison pays. So many inhumane conditions are something that should be somehow a subject, not necessarily of this law, but of course this law. When it comes to fighters Krajisniki, I mean the Republic of the Serbian Krajina, anyone who's been passing through the highway of Novosad, somewhere on the part where the Ugrinova Street of Zemun, enters that path, has seen, or has seen, for more than 25 years, young people, and now middle-aged people, who have lost both legs in this country's war. They beg, they wait for one of the drivers to open the car and give them some money. The picture is a picture and an opportunity for the country's relationship with the country's war fighters, and it can't be said that you haven't somehow improved the situation and that you're not looking to really fix the situation. You are not the same as those yellow ones who were, indeed, absolutely not interested, but the Republika Srpska Krajina must also be present in the talks. When you talk abroad, when you talk in diplomatic circles. Republika Srpska Krajina is a temporarily occupied Serbian state and none of the officials in Serbia repeat it and that is something we strongly resent. Vojislav Seselj wrote a book entitled "Serbian people must free the Republic of Serbia" that must remain in the people. We know that we also have a problem with KIM, that the problem of the Republic of Serbia is opening up, but if we forget it, if we forget the fighters who gave lives or body parts to those countries, I mean the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, and part of Serbia, I mean KIM, then it won't be good. Therefore, the amendments of General Delic, who submitted the amendments as a participant of everything that happened to the Serbian people and on behalf of his fighters who fought with him, who died or were disabled, should be considered more seriously. He does have absolute legitimacy and full right to address both ministers and government and all state officials, but I would not say that about a colleague who spoke about the amendment just before. This is also something that should serve the ruling party's campaign, because I personally know a lot of Republika Srpska fighters, a lot of their families, I have them in a wider and narrow family and they said the first time Linta defends the interests of the Krajina fighters, just to ask him to say at least one place where he would be a fighter and at least one day when it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72538	Thank you. You want a replica or an amendment? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72539	I think that this topic that we're discussing today has national and state significance and that we shouldn't be politicizing this issue and attacking each other without arguments. As for me personally, it is true that I was not a fighter of the Republika Srpska Army. I graduated from a elementary school in a village called Perna in the Municipality of Vrginmost in Kordun, because I lived with my brother at Grandpa and Grandma's. After finishing primary school, I finished high school in Karlovac in 1988, and that same year in the fall I went to military service in Ljubljana, the 9th Army district. After returning from the army, from JNA 1989 I entered the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, section – history, that is, history as they say there. I graduated as one of the best students of two years of the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb and returned to his house in the municipality of Vrginmost in spring 1991. Based on the decision of the Krajina authorities, based on the decision of the late President of the Municipality of Vrginmost Mitra Obradovic, regular students were given the opportunity to continue teaching legally in Serbia... (President: Thank you. Time. )......................................................................................................... Explaining that Republika Srpska will need educated and educated people who will work on its... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72540	Thank you. My dear Linta, may I continue? That's why I offered to talk about the amendment, you didn't understand, you asked for a replica. You'll call later after the amendment to proceed. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. By amendment. He didn't mention you. He really didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72541	It's not a problem. It's an amendment. Just one sentence, that this is really a hollow story when we talk about regular or extraordinary students. Is it possible that someone was defending regular students from going to fight? Since my own uncle's son, Stevo Radet, was a second-year student at the Faculty of Engineering. Unfortunately, at the age of 23, he died on the hill of Semec. So, I'm not saying that a colleague was supposed to die, but he was supposed to fight, or at least not make it up here, that he's saying something on behalf of a fighter, a Krajisnik.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72542	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. By amendment. Now you've got time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72543	I just wanted to say my biography very briefly and say what I was doing during that period. So, on the basis of a decision by the Krajina authorities, based on the decision of the late President of the Municipality of Vrginmost, Mitra Obradovic, I enrolled third year at the Faculty of Philosophy, Belgrade, in the fall of 1991, in primary studies, in postgraduate studies. In 1991, my late father and brother were on the battlefield. I have come twice a year every year during the RSK and during the winter and during the summer to my home in the Municipality of Vrginmost, and I believe that not being an RSK fighter does not take away my ability to sincerely fight for my Krajisniks, the Krajina fighters to admit and that they did not wage a private war. It would be easier for me to say - I wasn't an RSK fighter, I wasn't on the battlefield, I don't care about the Krajina fighters. I have a sense of responsibility and this is kind of my moral debt to those honorable people who have fought, I repeat, against the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman for freedom and for my and our people. The least I can do is at least pay back some of my debt to that people this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72544	The 5th amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72545	Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I accept the argument given by the Government by not accepting this amendment, because, indeed, in Article 5, paragraph 1 in point 6) that date is mentioned. So what I'm looking for can be done under point 6 and it doesn't have to be in point 7). That's what I'm saying. By writing these amendments, we wanted to make this law better. However, by reading the arguments, I am saying this as an authorised representative, I have now seen that certain amendments that have been accepted have made this law worse than the Government has proposed. Imagine, for example, it has been accepted that instead of the Equality Monument as proposed by the Government, an amendment to the anti-fascist monument was adopted. If we were celebrating a jubilee today, it would be okay to split up with the Justgores and share with the Partisans, but if one of them had a Partisan monument in 1941-1945. The government has made excellent suggestions that there is an Equality Monument in 1941. - 1945. I know a lot of people who would be looking, because I don't think there are any living Egagorians who would want to win, because they have the right to this monument, but maybe the government took care of the costs. I'm sure no descendant of the Justgores will ever look for an anti-fascist monument. That's absolutely not right. When we discussed it here in principle, that's what we would certainly be talking about from the SRS. Today, we cannot react because the government has accepted something worse than her proposal. As an authorised representative, I'd like to say something about this argument as well, the fighter fires and the dead fighter. Our best intention was that the law that had existed for 28, 29 years and in which that term was given, that the new law would finally change because the soldier had died, and the fighter was a fallen fighter. To be a completely unique term, he died and stayed, and a soldier died. And in this argument, when it is said, they die. Well, a dead fighter and a dead soldier died, and one and the other are gone. It is known that in our legal system after five years they are declared dead and acquired, too, the status that belongs to them under this law. I can see from this that there was no will in the Ministry to accept what... The non-acceptability can't be explained, like, say, so that we here then conclude that in this room everyone has had a unique treatment. We don't have gentlemen just as we can conclude from these amendments that what we have reconciled to the law of the right-wing movement and members of the People's Liberation Movement, i.e. Partizana, today we prove to these amendments that it is only formal and that it is not, and that it will also be seen later through that committee that has to solve the issues of the only three members of SUBNOR. That's why, for all these years since that equality, nothing could ever be done, because SUBNOR has always voted against it. We see from that that, we sitting here, and only formally agree that there has been reconciliation and equality in the rights of members of one movement and another. In fact, what we're doing here doesn't make reconciliation, but we're just showing that it's just formal. I, as a People's MP, do not accept, do not see, and would never vote for something that is formal and behind which some other purpose stands. Here, in this room there were those who expressed their dissatisfaction with the establishment of the "Ravnogorska Speil 1941-1945", but it is, after all, their right. But to accept one amendment now, to be an anti-fascist monument... On the one hand, she recognises the struggle of the Ravnogorac as members of the general anti-fascist movement, but the real name for their monument was the Eastern Monument 1941-1945. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72546	The word has been made by the MP, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72547	I want to thank the previous speaker for drawing attention to one topic that I thought would be no place in the 21st century in the Republic of Serbia, to continue to share, so many years after the end of World War II, the descendants of those who fought for the freedom of this country as partisans or us, I am proud to say, as descendants of those who also fought for the freedom of Serbia and the Serbian people and for the freedom of Europe, but by the units of the royal army, or General Draža Mihailovic, I do not see what the problem is, and why can't someone talk about it with the same pride as the descendants of the Communist parties or those who gave their lives as partisans? Both are historically proven facts and Serbia should be proud that it has had two liberating movements. The only one in Europe had two liberating movements. We shouldn't be opening some old wounds here, because we know history was written by a winner, we know how history is twisted, but then we got a chance to look for rehab for our grandfathers, and I took advantage of it. I used it and I rehabilitated Dobrivoj Gojkovic in front of the courts of this country. I am sorry that there are no colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia, because no matter how much we are together on some projects and we are building together the future of this country, when we come to this old story, then it turns out that they cannot take one step further and that simply Serbia is not divided into partisans and Chetniks anymore, but to acknowledge a common historical fact that both have fought exclusively for Serbia's freedom. Then let's not go too far in the history of who betrayed whom and why some were in power, and the others were killed again in the communist regime, and they suffered a great deal, but to try to rise above it. I am therefore surprised by this amendment by the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Djorđa Milicevic, that he was bothered by what was written in the first draft of the law, means a Montenegrin monument. I don't know why that bothered him. I haven't had a chance to talk to him deeply about it, but here we are, so the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted that amendment. We will meet, if it is very painful to mention -- the Equality Movement and, behold, the Government of the Republic of Serbia passed by parliament its amendment that has become an anti-fascist monument. Here, let me tell you, dear colleagues, I will look for that monument on behalf of my grandfather, because you said no one would look for that monument. I'm going to ask that she simply challenge this commission that decides to show once whether she thought it was necessary to bury those old divisions on partisans and Chetniks or when adopting this amendment and by submitting that amendment, they thought we should continue this story in both 22 and 23. It's not our fault for the civil war that happened during that period. It's not our fault what happened after 1945. That's why I'm deeply disappointed with the gesture that colleagues are putting up with such amendments and they won't, no matter how old they are, 20, 30, 40, that it's deeply ideological in them, that they can't bear the fact that there's been more free movement in our country. Now I'm going to give you an example of why I'm going to look for that monument. I don't know if my grandfather would approve it or my late father, but I'm going to ask out of spite because Dobrivoje Gojkovic, who was everything, was just not a communist and a partisan, all of which means that he was a supporter of Draža Mihailovic's movement, my grandfather was Dragisa Vasic. I don't know who Dragisa Vasic was. I'm from a family like that... (Alexander Seselj: Djordje Milicevic does not know. Đordje Milicevic doesn't know, he doesn't want to know, because the party probably teaches him that, and our Serbian Progressive Party teaches us that we are all the same, that Serbia can only progress if we bury these falsely created divisions in our people. That's the difference between the party and the party. We need everyone, and someone on every law will be setting up obstacles. I'm going to ask because Dobrivoje Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister... Minister, if you have any influence on that commission, let me tell you why I'm going to be looking. Because he took part in the biggest rescue operation of military pilots in World War II at Operation Halliard. Two American pilots slept in our house, in his house, in my father's house. We succeeded last year, with the help of co-operation with the Halliard Foundation to identify one of those two who slept in the house. So they exist. Their children are also their grandchildren, because he died years ago, this American pilot who was saved thanks to the victims of Serbian peasants who fought under the auspices of Draža Mihailovic and who organized in that area in all villages around Prajan where the finale of the operation was made, where the airport was improvised, so that they could be saved and that 500 of them leave Serbia and, thank God, all 500 went and live with their families. Because of the operation, Draža Mihailovic received a monument in Libertivil and a medal for Truman. Therefore, we have nothing to be ashamed of. We must be proud of every bit of our history in World War II. To what we're not proud of, we've condemned. We're passing laws on memorial centers, where Serbs, Jews and gypsies and Roma were killed, and we all condemn it unanimously here, and then we can't share in the 21st century, and that part of history is nice to all of us, and the second part of history we're going to be silent. I don't know what century we're going to stay away from the fact that Draža Mihailovic's fighters fought for Serbia's freedom? Do you know how terrible it was in occupied Serbia to put your wife and children at risk by saving American pilots? Well, the Germans knew right away. The Germans knew right away where anyone had slept for a few hours. A few hours they were just staying in those houses and I got a confession from the Halliard Foundation for that because they found my grandfather's name. If I received recognition from the Halliard Foundation from the United States, I ask for recognition from Serbia. I'm asking for a confession from that commission, whoever's sitting here, and if it's just the NOB members... What NOB? I'm sorry, it can only be their children or grandchildren. Yesterday I met a gentleman from Shid, 94, he did, there he is, but he won't be on that committee. He is a member of NOB, and he remembers everything that happened in Shid and the environment in those difficult times in World War II. But rarely who's gonna be in that commission and that he's a member of the NOB. We're not gonna let that happen. They have to be participants, families and those who really know the history of our country and who don't insist on these ridiculous divisions anymore. I don't know which country still insists on these historical divisions. Grandpa of whom, just because he joined a leftist party, is fine and his grandfather has contributed greatly to Serbia's progress and Serbia's release in World War II, and we grandchildren of those who were not communists, who were deeply anti-communists, have fought for Serbia's freedom, we must not say anything. We must continue to be ashamed and accept everything for the sake of some common peace, every amendment, and everything to be nice to us and to be all right. I didn't know about this amendment. I'm glad the government saved us from voting for or against, but if the amendment hadn't been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I wouldn't have voted for it, although I think it unites both movements, because the fight was common against fascism, against the Nazis and against the German occupation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72548	Right on line, MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go. Milorad Mircic: All of us, Maya, are radicals. ) (Greto Peric: Billy and the others. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72549	Mr. Minister, the Honorable President of the Assembly, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that you spoke of this amendment, although I have a very different view regarding the Antifascist Monument. She is, as I say, acceptable to all Equality, as well as to members of the Partizan movement, but if she were to be assigned today to the descendants as a jubilee, for some jubilee related to the NOR. However, what you have specifically potentiated, and we know from our own practice about this Commission, this is not the first commission to be formed by this law. Those commissions have been so far. There was never a man who could accomplish anything, as members of SUBNOR sat in the Commission. Is there any? There are likely to be, but SuBNOR exists day after day, because now there are heirs. But you see the explanation. We in the SRS when we were thinking about how to overcome this problem, and that in the assignment of this Eastern monument in 1941-1945 everything was transparent and fine, we say – surely the members of SUBNOR should not be there. It's supposed to be the descendants of the Unsuspecting. But if the Assembly is already proposing four members, why should the Assembly not propose all seven members on the basis of a proposal from parliamentary groups? In our opinion, that was kind of acceptable. However, it is a very interesting explanation why such an amendment has been rejected. It says - the amendment is rejected for the reason that it is necessary to include in the work of that Commission an organisation that is a heritage of anti-fascism and cultivates NOB traditions in order to make the work of that Commission more quality and to prevent the attempt to revise history. So, what we're talking about is that we're kind of doing some kind of history review. In fact, we need to review our history.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72550	Thank you. Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72551	I want to review history. I want to talk to you about everything. I will now send a message to that future commission that the first president of the Republic of Serbia, in history ever, who came to Prajana and gave a speech in which he confessed to the sacrifice of Serbian peasants who were all, but all who participated in the operation were fighters of Draža Mihajlovic, this is also seen in photographs at the exhibition that was that day. So they were all just fighters of Draža Mihajlovic. He honored that they had sacrificed themselves and saved themselves in a magnificent action studied at many military academys, 500 lives, 500 pilots, Allied pilots. He's the first president to honor them. Well, that's what I've got to tell that commission. It put one big point of nonsense that when one of us whose grandfathers participated and fought for the freedom of this country, they said they weren't at Tito's army that we were auditing. I'm not auditing anything, I'm only speaking on behalf of half of Serbia who has not supported communism, which is not supported by Tito and has not been in the NOB, as explained to us and many generations since 1945, unfortunately our day. He's doing it to this day. That's not true. History review has been done gradually since 1945, so it looks still a day-to-day. And today, he's trying to hide the truth about Serbia having two free movements, both anti-fascist movements, both, but since 1945, thanks to the great role of our English friends, 1945, one has been given the privilege of ruling the state and writing history, and these others have been killed. Some fled the country, some did not want to escape from Serbia. They didn't want to. Among them is my grandfather, but they thought the elections would be democratic. That's where they crossed over. There are no communist democratic elections. They were gone in 1945. There were those balls and everything else is history, but I don't want to open old wounds. Who cares today in the 21st century? In Serbia 2020, someone submits amendments because they fear the revision of history, someone who is 30 and a few years old. He's probably not alone, he probably asked for the president because he can't get over the fact that there's only one truth, which is that the Serbs died in World War II. Some fought for the king and country, the other fought for Tito, as anyone will. Indeed, if the grandchildren were to argue here about who was right, I think this amendment is a complete surplus, but let it be one big challenge for that committee, whoever it is, how they're going to get over how the president of the Republic of Serbia in Prajani put one big point in September last year, because the first one in the history of our country, who came there, we passed the wreath, bowed down to the shadows of those people and gave a speech in honor of all those who were brave and sacrificed their families, their children wanted to save allied pilots. It's a magnificent venture. I say, I'm proud, rehabilitating my grandfather because he wasn't a communist, it's known how it was tried at the time. He wasn't tried by a lawyer, I'm sorry Nedo Jovanovic isn't here. He wasn't tried by a lawyer, he was tried by a local butcher. Let me just tell my colleagues who may not know anything about that time, but here we are, being raised by Serbia is one country and we all have to love it, and let history leave to historians to discuss whatever they want and whoever they are. I'm saying, I'm going to look for, colleagues, this monument, whatever it is called, just to see under what justification it will reject me with confessions from the Halliard Foundation, with confessions from the United States, with confessions from our courts, that my grandfather was wrongly condemned and the grandfathers of many here who are, would be surprised at what parties they were in, and their grandfathers were in the units of Draža Mihailovic or were just supporters of that movement. That is what the judgment says. The supporter of this movement. I say I see what kind of explanation he'll find. We're here to share, I don't think it's good for Serbia. So if there are such amendments to the vote, I personally cannot support it. Now, it depends, the government is on the move, so make sure they adopt whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72552	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72553	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, without the intention of sharing ancestors, and if I can't reconcile my dead ancestors, I won't argue with living descendants. But it seems you can't explain it to some people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as grandson of two soldiers of the Yugoslav Army in the country, whose commander was General Draža Mihailovic, I will not seek these anti-fascist monuments. Those Garden monuments for my grandfather Bosk and my grandfather Lazar are here. I'm their monument, my mother's dead is their monument, my living father is their monument, my sister is their monument. All mine are their monuments. They stopped the Black Legion at a time when the Proletarian Brigade was resting. They stopped the Black Legion and that's how I became a monument. If they hadn't stopped the Ustashas, I wouldn't have been there today, there wouldn't have been many of their descendants, but they lay down with others and defend the population against Francetic's Black Legion and their Croatian flowers, and they had more, more national villages, and they did nothing to anyone. My grandfather Lazar did three and a half years, but then the review of the trial and communist times proved that he had been framed, so after three and a half years in a retrial, he was released. I'm their monument. I don't need an anti-fascist monument. I don't want to share it with Tudjman, I don't think so. I don't want to share monuments with the descendants of Franjo Tudjman, I don't think so. I don't want to share monuments with the descendants of Mark Mesic, the one who went to Stalingrad with a 369 foot regiment, so instead of liquidating him, they put him in some communist uniform and sent him to Serbia. I don't want to share a monument with him. I do not want to share a memorial with Franjo Pirca, who after 10 April betrayed the royal air force and left, was a member of the main headquarters of Ante Pavelic, to return to Tito in 1944, invited all former fellow pilots to change their military schedule and all those who took off against Hitler and crashed 154 Kraut planes. He called for a change of military schedule, took them to the village of Apples near Panchev, 72 of them and shot them. I don't want to share monuments with them. My monuments are here. I only admit that I didn't fully believe in the courage of my grandfathers, but it took me 40 years to put two lessons together at school. He says the royal army was rotten and capitulated, the royal army was rotten and capitulated. In my second lesson, I learned that on March 27th, we, we, and this thought of the communists, were likely to delay the attack on the Soviet Union for several months and thus saved the Soviet Union. It took me 40 years to put two lessons together in one. Who are we? This means the royal army saved and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia saved the Soviet Union, which in 1944 reached the Kingdom, along with Mark Mesic and Franjo Pirc, Tudjman, etc. These are the ones who ordered from the allies, like Koco Popovic, level Leskovac with the ground. They are the same ones who shot at Serbia's arrivals because of the leader of the First World War enemy soldier. As ordered by OZNA, end of story, 70,000 people. And forced Serbia's youth onto the largest firing machine on the Sremski front that existed in Europe. It was a classic firing machine. I don't want to share monuments with them. My monuments are here, on Grandpa. I'm a living monument. The greatest winners of this revolution, which only we in Serbia keep, not wanting to share, I'm just saying, we just want to keep it safe. I have nothing against those who want to keep it, but they should know, the biggest winners and alleged revolutions are Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Macedonia. They're the biggest winners. They won their national states and the first time, they got their national states, despite the state being created by the winners of the Kingdom of Serbia-Montenegro and the defeated parts of Austria. Despite being defeated in World War II, they are the greatest winners. The independent state of Croatia created the Socialist Republic of Croatia only as a transitional solution between one independent state of Croatia and another. Now, I'm not going to share medals with them, I'm not going to look for a common monument, because they raised a gun to a country where they were the greatest winners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72554	Honorable MPs, according to members 27 and 205. Rules of Procedure, I set a break until 4:00 p.m., when we continue to work in the session's session on asking parliamentary questions to the government on the last Thursday of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72555	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you... You don't need to know all the rules of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72556	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, dear ministers, I have a few questions I would like to get answers to. We have been informed that in June of last year, the official authorities of the BiH state have come to the official authorities of the Republic of Serbia to request the opening of a BiH consulate in Novi Pazar and that our state bodies are still not a concrete response... So will the consulate open in Novi Pazar? It is very important for us Bosniaks that there is a BiH consulate in our town, the country of origin, in which the largest part of our people lives, and I would like to ask the question of the prime minister – when will there be an answer to this question and when will we be able to expect the opening of the BiH consulate in Novi Pazar? My second question is directed towards Minister Sarčević. It is known that in previous days, we have some really difficult moments when it comes to Avdo Medjedovic Elementary School in Novi Pazar, that after two failed competitions, the ministry appointed the performer of the post. To date, however, there are obstructions from former leadership, and it is impossible for the performer to take over the school and start the school to work concretely. Even these days, the former director, who's retired, is misbehaving. Today, by threatening the school itself, without any excuse, he is staying at that school, and educational workers, and even children attending classes, that no one will be able to do the will of the minister there. And I'm also asking the minister what's the next step and when we're going to have a normalization in this elementary school, which is really of particular importance, and where were the major malversions in the previous period? It is known that this school is under blockade, it is known that there was great nepotism and it is known that order should be taken in that school and made an example of what education should be, in particular education in the language of national minorities, in this particular case Bosnian. Also, my third question is again for the Minister of Education...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72557	Thank you. You'll have a chance to ask the question one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72558	Good afternoon, everyone. Just for a little while, and then I'll leave it to Minister Sarčević for the rest. As for the request for a consulate in Novi Pazar, I'm going to have to check and check with the Foreign Office. If the answer has not been sent yet, then it is probably because, as you know, 14 months have been waiting for the formation of the BiH Council of Ministers, we haven't had anyone to formally send an answer to, so I'm checking with the Foreign Ministry and, as soon as possible, we'll send you an answer, if we haven't yet, and in that sense we'll be as possible and open, cooperative as we've been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72559	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72560	Your Honor, you are certainly right and I share your opinion in terms of respecting the state and order, and this is all in the Law on the Education and Education System. There is a total attempt to obstruct and politicise a group of people behind the Bosniak National Council, which is not true. Nor is it the attitude of the entire Bosniak National Council, but rather a revote after the elections for national councils, someone is manipulating it. I put things very clearly in place and here, as you know, and in Serbia there have been cases in other places... One of the last ones was in Šapec when the same school director was removed for malfeasance and damages somewhere from over seven million dinars and criminal charges were launched, and these bear scares, solved, we'll sue the minister, we do this, we do that, so they can sue me, but I haven't broken any members of the law. I'm just using those powers that were given to me by law, and here in parliament we normally passed that law and there was a withdrawal around that member to ask the minister about the appointment of the director. As you can see, in practice it has proved to be so necessary, because there is no one. If you allow some alliances to be made, politically, interesting, so you've said this well in that institution and many others, not in your region, but in other parts of the Republic there was nepotism, but in the law we've put it punishable and that someone can't be the director. Someone thought it was God-given that it belonged to him. When the state just said - it can't, there's a re-competition, we put a V.d., a completely neutral person. No, we're in school now. Since there was a break-up and a break-up for the flu, this regular, people organized, we even reported it to the police, the prosecution, a republican inspection came out, people from the school administration. It's all done by the pe-es. They put wire, chains, locks, whatever it is, and it's a siege. So it's funny. The man's retired, and he's still running the school. I also heard from the union in charge of the school yesterday, the republican level, with the leadership, and they condemn it and send a message to them that they must respect the state. We've reported it to the D.A., waiting for them to respond. That man is a usurper and he will be prosecuted. What makes it impossible for children to do, manipulate their parents and children, nothing new or seen, we had this three years ago in Zemun, and the state lasted it. They've made a series of fouls, including no strike announcements. He began to deal immediately with the strike -- that on strike when the school has no leadership, meaning to the performer legal work is not to enter the facility, not to be given to the school republic inspector, not to the head of the administration. When everything settles down, that gentleman will hardly be able to drag himself through the courts. That's his message. The message is next -- how is the collective going to get paid? Here, reward question, who's going to sign the pay? Not that I'm gonna keep them from getting their own income. You don't have a face in an object that's meant to sign the payroll. That hasn't gotten to them yet. Since you don't have faces, because it's specifically this one retired, here the vacuum, so they've made an obstruction, there's no one to bring the police to Pazar to respond, so we've had to, as a ministry, the primary education sector and a series of things. We're acting exclusively by the law, they've organized some class for 35 minutes, and I've asked my associates there not to go by any force, to go into conversations first of all with their parents. I'd have to tell you, no matter what you're glad people say down in the region to learn in Bosnian, but in this school, it's, and I'm going to investigate it, most likely there's been abuse and that right of parents. Behind their backs, they have declared that everyone learns only in Bosniak, it is not in any other school. This right was not given to the Bosniak Council, nor was it given to individuals, as that director, in a certain way. I guarantee you that, and it'll just come out. I'm ordering colleagues who work there, parents, to be taken into their minds, property V.D. is just the initial state. Further democratic procedure goes to all institutions, but no one will be named. If he has nepotism, if he's in financial malfeasance, he can support whoever he wants. They stick to the old system -- I made most of the collective, I made support from the national council, I made any support, and that's enough. That's not enough. It's just a regular procedure that can, and it doesn't have to be respected. You just see why it doesn't have to be respected, because the state here is doing its job. Of course, these things can't be short-circuited and we're getting ready for one longer period, but we won't give up or give up and this story will go in favor of the children and citizens of New Market.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72561	Thank you. Here, you have an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72562	I thank and truly thank the Prime Minister for this, and I believe that this will be very quickly realised, as the mosque in Priboj was realised very quickly last time, which is a great honor for us to finally have a government and to have people who are responsible and who act quickly. As I also want to thank Minister Sarčević and to tell him that, in fact, the Bosniak national council is very different and complex and I am a councilman in the Bosniak National Council in the second term and in fact that they have abused the greater is only the result of some other things and of what we unfortunately have suffered for 30 years. What is important is that this problem will be solved, that parents will finally be able to sleep peacefully, that their children will have quality teaching and it was very absurd. You know, the last few days they said these people were building a school. I really ask – did the Government of the Republic of Serbia rule this school or are some citizens alone, especially the former director of my own funds, building that school? It's so very dangerous to manipulate emotions. My second question for the minister relates to this scheduled competition for work in the place of permanent employment, at this ban we received professors of mathematics and physics who have completed basic studies, master studies, in whose diplomas stand – graduate professor of mathematics and physics or master of mathematics and physics, who have been working since 2013, 2014. But I guess by the book, their calling doesn't exist in that rulebook right now, but in addition to the degree, it's in the compliment. Because of the will of certain directors, they say these people have no right to compete. How could they work from 2013 until 2020, they had all the competences, and now that they have to be constantly employed, they have no right? Especially this is very dangerous because we are in an election campaign. People will try to push out other people who have a working experience, who have been working for seven years even telling them that they are wrong or not enough of those pedagogue-psychological competences all with the goal of getting them out of work to get their staff, party and others to work in those places. I'm asking the minister to explain this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72563	Thank you. I ask Minister Sarčević to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72564	First of all, I want to thank both the prime minister and everyone who has allowed us to carry out this activity, and I don't think it should have been introduced. When a ban on employment in education was introduced, the course entered the bureaucratic cycle, although you have free teaching standards. Now let's correct that mistake, you know, because we've talked about it a lot, even in Parliament here, it's started and we've had 4,738 in the first booze, I guess, the competition at once. Given that larger young people, bigger women, are fertilely capable, we really think that we will have an important impact on improving the country's birth rate, but also on correcting the injustices. Since you have one ordinary right here and one official right and some fair play, I called all the representative unions and invited all the executives of the board of directors before we began to realize this measure, knowing that it was between hammers and anvils. We agreed very clearly – it will go in cycles, even going faster than it was originally imagined monthly, thanks again to the Commission of the Human Resources and even once-sensibility to solve this problem. We are already today, yesterday I signed the fourth call, because in education, who knows, it's a percentage, a piece, you have people who have since before 2014 and have happened much earlier in that status, etc. Meanwhile, new school years are coming, new technological surpluses are coming and it is constantly changing and suppressing. Knowing that this is a space for manipulation, we first made a gentleman's agreement first and said to correct that injustice, given that someone who worked for five, six, seven years certainly, because he was on a certain time and didn't satisfy it, could have been fired. If it is, then there's no dispute. If some of them are directors, there will really be exceptions in Serbia, I get daily e-mails from employees that even some unions don't represent, and their mouths are full of concern for workers, the agreement is that wherever there is a problem situation, something beyond the standard and typical to get away and to solve. In the Law on the Educational and Educational System, knowing of our plight, we avoided all employment situations in education being done through the Labour Act, not only through the Lex Speciality of the Law on the Educational and Educational System. I should say, at first, it wasn't the case and it was very well defended, and those trade unions in 2014 did not know that protecting the interests of educators and saying it wasn't the administration. Someone who brought it didn't have to think about it. Someone else had to protect it. When we came to the real view of the problem, the Association of Directors of Serbia acted gentlemenly that it would be respected and we went to solve the old cases. Why? Because these fresh ones in the last two, three years may be under suspicion that someone went into maternity care, that it's two years for a third child, and that's what we'll last solve. We started to solve in the first booze of five thousand people, in 2014 and 2015 and back, so by 2009, in 2010 and as long as it happened and we were going towards who had a full working norm. Then we went to 2016 and 2017 full of norms, so over 60 to 100% of this old group again, so now we've released 50%. Once again, we have to make a gentlemen's agreement for people, there's this in education that works in two, three schools, which have 30%, 20%, 40%, and there's got to be a deal, because the director will formally appeal to his personal right to choose candidates. I have also called in the same way, on my right to have the Director's behaviour in mind and to promise some repressive measures that I will respond and that and now I say very publicly here. If someone doesn't respect the worker, play fair, and everything else, then we'll keep in mind that we're looking into the eyes of possible fraud. I even have doubts that this may even be manipulated by paying, buying jobs. So that's a big problem now, but not as much as I have in mind, as many people want to show. What's very important, every case logs in, we have a whole team for it, we have subgroups of work by regions in Serbia, we have a central group in the ministry. Several water colleagues, Zoran Kostic, Milos Blagojevic and so on, and workers know it. They're free to contact everyone, and it's an attempt by those directors, a terrible attempt. Believe me, you can promise them that I can report to the office myself. So every situation we go over and solve. So that we don't see a tree from the woods, if we solve 15,000 cases, and we have 50, be careful that's very few percent, everyone hurts that story, but we expected it to happen, we're certainly not naive. We have another kind of problem. One of the unions that is representative, which is the Union union, which is otherwise very combative and ready always for some of its exhibition, has sent me a letter to break this up, because I guess there are elections, so that's good, so it doesn't fit to work. Like, just because of all this trouble, it's not their job to worry about it. That's what I'm telling them from here. I'll do my job to the end, and they'll protect the interests of the workers. Don't make me a bigger union than them. I'd like to ask myself, gentlemen, Union trade unions, do you represent the interests of hiring workers or staying in office for a certain period of time? Open your eyes, give the Central Commission information and then we'll work to react. So you have one symptom on 100 cases and it has to be handled carefully. I'm coming to this last thing you said. In the system of the '90s, especially when the industry didn't work, you had that a lot of people from a variety of professions, most often engineering started working in class. They're very competent for a safe elementary school, for work and physics and mathematics and information, but they stayed in some status too long, not before this event, much earlier. No one cared about them. Also, no one has cared for the initial education of teachers working in schools for a long time, because anyone who enrolls in math doesn't run to school now, the prime minister knows. We have a whole series of affirmative measures to fix it in the short term, but in the long run we will stabilize it through better scholarships and paying classes and a series of other measures that we are working on. I was at a conference yesterday at the University of All in Serbia and insisted, being representatives of the National High Education Council, which prompted the story of a so-called short cycle. We want these people to go through a short cycle and replace this supplement to their education and their competences are already enough. We haven't forgotten them, but we also said in this suggestion that they don't touch their places. When you waited five, six years, what was the problem for a few months. So we're going to see how someone behaves and it's really going to be one fight. We need to take care of these people in a special way. There's one more thing to say, if you'll excuse me. Sometimes when the state thought it was going so fast forward, not knowing that it was protecting its hips and taking care of what it now cared about intensively, it declared that they were working in pre-school, school and high school levels as a master. Now I wonder if it really takes a level, as if basic studies of mathematics, physics, ITs weren't enough to work in elementary school, we nailed ourselves. We are now going to change the rules very much to relax it. We're very interested in electrical engineering graduates. I spoke to the Deans of FON today, and the ETF and I was in Nis the other day. So all these resources are very good. We can't stop four zero revolutions from going any further, but these are all just the tip of the iceberg, these are much more serious problems. So keep in mind that what comes to the central group won't miss anything. I have served, not by threat, but by my legal rights to those managers of institutions who do all this in their own way. It's mine to investigate and see how honest they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72565	Thank you. Would you like a comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72566	Thank you, Minister. With this you removed a large stone from the heart of many educators who are truly terrified that after seven, eight or more years of work will lose their jobs, lose their existence and stay factually on the street. This was extremely important to say, as was important what you said about the elementary school "Avdo Medjedovic". I would just ask that there is not much to be expected with the implementation of all possible measures, because we are indeed in one situation where it is abused by political factors, given the upcoming pre-election campaign, and that is where we are trying to make a difference between Bosniaks and Serbs, i.e. between the state and Bosniaks. That's not true, that's not a fact and it's not something that's in the field. In the field, parents and most of these educators and children are in favour of respect of the law, because good workers, however, were manipulated or abused, and ultimately, limited by this Kabadiahian relationship of former leadership, which in every way looked at the part-cracies or nepotism of this school as being reduced to a small level, it also speaks of its assessment. By not agreeing with the Bosnian language, and I would hate for anyone, anyone, to be forced into anything, but violence at that school is more than 99% of the children of Bosniak nationality. I believe most of them self-chosen to study in their native language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72567	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72568	Thank you. I was going to continue our debate on Kosovo, but unfortunately there has now been a more urgent topic and an urgent one that I cannot overcome. I hope Minister Mali's there, but you're there enough to answer. It's about selling the Commercial Bank, of course, about something I thought was wrong and it turns out, not me, but a good part of the people, or even the professional public, in fact, a little who found a nice and commendable word for selling the biggest domestic, one of the two remaining domestic banks. It's a matter of economic sovereignty. The sovereignty isn't just boundaries, it's sovereignty and how much you manage and you can manage your finances. Of course you or someone will say, well, it's now in today's day, capital you don't know the limits, etc. But the fact is that no serious country gives up even financial sovereignty and it is very unusual to sell under the firm that the state is a bad owner, the state-owned bank, which has 75m euros in profits only last year, is sold for 387m. Well, it's not even two football stadiums that are supposed to be built. These TVs that were bought for 200 million, which the state has allocated 200m euros to buy two, not exactly profitable televisions, and we sell for 387m, which is reportedly with some dividends to go out to 450m, for a bank that works well. It is under the firm that the state is a bad owner, selling NLB where the state of Slovenia is a majority owner, an individual majority shareholder with 25% shares, plus some consortium of smaller shareholders. So the state of Serbia is a bad owner, and the state of Slovenia is not a bad owner. Then we can sell our biggest bank, the rest of the bank to strangers. It is a terrible mistake for me to think not only of me and certain economic experts I can name, but also of Governor NBS, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic. So I'm asking if there's any chance that this process will stop, and do you think what makes you think it's a good acquisition? Since I only have half a minute left for the second question, then I will just come back and ask you to comment on President Vukic's statement, which he repeated several times in the last few days, it is about Kosovo, that he expects us to get an offer in relation to Kosovo, quote - which we cannot accept, which we cannot refuse? Isn't that a racketeering offer if it's really coming? Isn't that a blackmailing formulation and isn't it inappropriate for the head of state to speak in such a way about the most important national issue?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72569	Thank you. The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72570	Thank you. I will be very happy to answer the question about "The Commercial Bank" and have dealt personally as Prime Minister with this issue before the finance minister became Sinisa Mali, who has indeed been very grateful professionally doing the job and taken on himself the professional leadership of this entire process, which was as transparent as possible in accordance with all the highest international rules, which shows that he was led with very detailed monitoring by both the IMF and all the international financial institutions we unfortunately had to pay in the amount we paid them, thanks to the path of the option we inherited. Let's not talk about something being inherited now, so you've been in power for six years, so what's happened in those six years, so this is really something that's signed, if I'm not wrong in 2009. If you ask me, even then the sale of the Commercial Bank was promised, which is why IBRD's international financial institutions entered. So, that decision was made by people who are criticising us today why we did it, while they made that decision and made an arrangement with international financial institutions that, if you ask me, and I said it again at meetings, with all international financial institutions, was extremely open, extremely unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia, because international financial institutions had entered into the control and management of the bank, without taking any risk for the bank's business, with guaranteed payments. All agreed in 2009. So once again, when such things are put on the table, they should be put on the table first of all to those people who designed it, made those contracts and then left someone else to clean up behind them, like all the other garbage and garbage left behind by some more responsible people in the Republic of Serbia who, thank God, took over when President Aleksandar Vukic became Prime Minister. Now, we can talk about "The Commercial Bank" doing a great job today, and I'll agree with you on that, but we can also talk about how much time and energy and difficult decisions it took to get "The Commercial Bank" doing well. Because she didn't always do good business, she didn't always do household business, which tells you the information that, I mean, President Vukic brought out yesterday, which is the information that we had one of the biggest problems with, and really, believe me, we all wanted to kill ourselves about it, which is that you had so-called. "Golden Parachuts" or "Golden Parachuts" or "Golden Parachuts" for the director of the then "Commercial Bank", Ivica Smolić, so that even when a man was fired, he was fired because he did not work well enough, he received an severance of more than 700 000 euros. These were political agreements, and so the "commercial Bank" led one of the great reasons why I personally today for selling "Comerial Banks" is because all we saw to the government that led Alexander Vukic, that is, in 2014, when things in Serbia changed, was so that all state-owned banks were managed to finance individuals, draw money, finance political parties and destroy these banks. That was the case with the Commercial Bank. What she has achieved today is simply because of everything that was done since 2014, that "The Commercial Bank" is being consolidated, that good management is being brought in and that it is doing well. Now, as far as the price of the Commercial Bank is concerned, if you have seen it, we have chosen a foreign financial advisor in this process. The estimated value for 100% of the bank's capital ranged from 406m euros to 451m euros, ranging from 338m euros to 375m euros for 83.23% of the bank's capital. So, the offered price we achieved is above the bank's estimated value, and the selected bid is above the bank's market capitalisation on 30 June 2019. So these are all things that are easily verifiable, things that are not a matter of politics, but estimates and the value of the bank and what the market looks like today. It seems to me that probably all these international advisors know more than you and other critics do about how the international market is today. Therefore, the price we have brought for the Commercial Bank, i.e. for 83% of the Commercial Bank, is above the above-ranking estimated value of the Bank. I will also remind you, which is amazing today for people who say this is a catastrophic job for the Republic of Serbia, 387m euros for 83%. It is, the honourable MP, about the same for which we sold the entire oil industry of Serbia, the whole oil industry of Serbia with all reserves, with all the findings, with all the existing and non-existent sources, with all the 400m euros in total. It was a fantastic job at the time, it was a beautiful state-run, and today 387m euros for 83% of the bank, which was in a catastrophic situation just four years ago, is a very small offer. In doing so, I will also remind you that today's critics of the sale of "Comerial Banks" in the way they criticise it are people who ran Serbia and these banks at the time when we had "Agro Bank", "New Agro Bank", "Vojvodine Development Bank", "Employment Bank of Belgrade", "Universal Bank", a bank for a bank that was destroyed, crushed because someone was using it for political interests, for paying their tycoons, to extract money. All those banks went bankrupt, five banks. Do you know how many of us in the budget or in the fund have paid off the savings in those banks? Do you know? 778.5 million dinars were paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because these banks, because they were run as they were led. Those who complain today, Gilasi, Jeremici, Pajtici and other experts, and all those behind these banks who have paid almost 800m euros for their leadership and their withdrawal of money and their fraud of citizens and businesses, they all complain today. You know why? Because they hope to come back to power once again, and then the Commercial Bank will serve them for what they used to do and the " Commercial Bank" and all these other banks until then, to finance their own activities, to draw money, to finance their political parties. It will no longer be in the Republic of Serbia. It won't be. Serbia keeps its interest in Serbia still having domestic banks. We have a Postage Savings Bank that finances all the housing for the security services and has a "Serbian Bank" through which we primarily finance our dedicated industry, but we will see that we also expand the field of work of the "Serbian Bank". So, there's still, we've kept an interest, we've sold 83% for that money, how much retailers are the ones who are criticizing us today, sold us a whole, whole set of Serbia's oil industry. Those who have ruined five banks by giving money to Farmacoma and others, putting that money in their pocket, because where else do they get 619,000,000 euros for 10 years in power and similar to other tycoons, who today probably can buy the whole of Serbia, where do they get money from? Well, from these banks. And that's what the citizens of Serbia paid 800,000 euros. Now, that's gone, and it won't be. Banks will no longer be able to be abused, so that's my answer to the Commercial Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72571	Thank you. Do you have any further questions?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72572	I would remind you of this question about Kosovo and Metohija, but if we were to say two more words about "The Commercial Bank". Surely some are inconsistencies, some have contributed to the sale of both the inn and the financial sector and may now be criticising for some political or political reasons. I was against it back then and now. Secondly, as Alexander Vukic changed his mind and changed his mind on many issues, see, perhaps some of these critics have now changed their minds and realized that they were wrong. There's this structural thing and it's a little bit unfair that you've mentioned, and it might sound better, which one part of the political public here often mentions and moves, which is, like, we've sold to the oil industry, right, for more, something more than that. This is about a bank. You overlooked just one little thing, Mrs. Brnabic. That NIS when it was sold, he was a loser and he did a very bad job. So, I'm in everything, no matter who the buyer is to safeguard economic sovereignty, but the fact that NIS was dealing with losses and that the buyer is the one, we know who we're talking about, of course, about the Russian buyer, really raised to his feet and made a profitable and successful regional company out of that NIS. That's also a fact. Secondly, the state did not give up full ownership of NIS, at least kept a minority package. I think it should have been done here, at least as long as Slovenia kept it in NLB, at least that's how long you should have kept it here. In the end, not to enter the details now, last year the state of Serbia bought and shares from those foreign shareholders in the Commercial Bank for more money per cent than it is now selling to the NLB. So we could at least look up to Slovenia, if nothing else. One more thing, you said yourself, there were bad executives, bad administrations. Here's a chance for you to set up good administration, your staff, so they can do good business. So the Commercial Bank did a good job, had good balances and great perspectives, and that's why it's not being sold, and you're selling something that's problematic or something you can't lift. It's this big difference between, say, "commercial banks" and NIS, which I'm not saying that maybe it could have sold better. I have another thing to run, and you ended up here triumphantly visiting last month, mentioning a brilliant final recovery of demographics, that for the first time since last year more children were born, for 600 or 700 newborn children than in 2018. What you forgot to point out and it's a problem with statistics, it always allows so little elastic interpretation that, in fact, in 2018, it was absolutely the worst year of the number of newborns, so in 2019 only a little bit improved that otherwise worst balance. So we have two of the worst years when it comes to newborn children, and even when it comes to first graders, it's also a disaster... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72573	Time. Thank you. First the Prime Minister, then Minister Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72574	Thank you. Yeah. You're right, NIS is a bad business. It was all bad business back then. At that time, the Commercial Bank did a bad job, and yes, we have set up a management that pulled the Commercial Bank out of a terribly difficult problem and major problems, huge problems it had. That's when the airport had a bad deal. That's when Jellyzar was doing a bad job. That's when RTB got off on the wrong foot. Tell me, what wasn't a bad job then? You're right, it was all bad business. It was all destroyed. It was all bad business. If NIS hadn't been sold for 400,000 and had waited for a year 2014 and reforms in Serbia and responsible people, and he would have gone well, so if he needed to be sold and sold, then they would have sold it, for God's sake, for serious money and not for 400,000. But then it would be some decision based on some facts and on raising, as we raised the airport, so we gave it 25 years in concession for over a billion and 500 million euros. In a concession, it all returns to the citizens of Serbia, it remains their property. Well, that's the kind of thing you need to learn from. So, how was Jellyzara? Well, did we sell it for 46 million euros? Shouldn't we have? Should we continue, pay out of the budget for 5,000 jobs and count people just days when they'll be out of jobs? For RTB "Bor"? Didn't the RTB Bor tell us to plant hazelnuts there? Well, RTB was put on its feet today, so we found a strategic partner for 63% of RTB for a billion 200 million dollars. Well, people, really, we can talk about this and that, but not about the economy. Don't, really about the economy. NIS did a bad job. Well, there was nothing good about it. Tell me, who did a good job? The PKB? It's all paid out of the budget. And you know why? Because it's been paid to some people. Because it has been paid to some people who have been politically linked to political parties, some politicians, tycoons that are among the best people in Serbia today, who have put that money in their pockets. No matter how bad we do business, 400 million, please. Well, just to estimate. Well, that's when the NIS evaluation was done. The NIS was sold under a minimum estimate. And, well done to our partners from Russia. Well done, they've invested, it's not working well. Well, good for them, I have to say, but why would they tell us -- well, please don't give us 400 million, we think it's worth a billion and 600 million. Well, not people, if you're going to give it to 400, if you're going to give it to 200, so give it to me. Well, it's not the responsibility of Russian partners and GASPROM, it's the Republic of Serbia and the Government and the people who run the then government of the Republic of Serbia. That 400 million doesn't cover anything in that NIS. So it's the same thing that we sold the Commercial Bank in 2014, so you know how much we could get for it? I don't know, probably not a hundred million. So much for that, and I agree with you and thank you for being objective, for being honest, what you said – NIS was bad at business. That's right, it was all bad business. It was all destroyed. It took years to get that up. Now let's leave someone in the hopes of winning power on the streets tomorrow, and then there'll be a bank withdrawal again because they're state-owned. Well, he won't be able to, either. It really won't work. Do I, after all, think that the state should manage the banking sector? I don't think the state should have any banks, to preserve some stability, to preserve some projects that are of national importance, which we are currently doing, as I said through the Post Office Bank, and through the Serbian Bank. This rest, whether the state is the best owner. No, I don't think he's the best owner, but thank God for the last six years a much better owner than she ever was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72575	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72576	Let me add, there were successful companies. For example, at the time "Darek Media" Dragan Gilas was doing fantastic business. She was doing great. The SBB did a fantastic job. So it wasn't, it was, it just wasn't state, it wasn't what it was for the people, but for them it was. I wanted to answer your question on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, what President Vukic said. They say when the Serbian army ran over Albania in 1915, it came to the sea, that Nikola Pasic said - our salvation is gone, we will not fail. That's what President Vukic just told you. There is a saying in our people, often used, especially in Kosovo Mitrovica, there was the first time I heard it, it said – tighten it, but not crack it. That's right, you won't say no to the negotiations. You won't tell me what your positions are. You won't tell where it stops, where it starts. You won't say, of course, what you'll do, what you're prepared to do, what you're not, which is why negotiations are served. You don't need to talk about it sooner, anyway. What President Vukic said was exactly what he said. Are we pretending not to be blackmailed? Resolution 1244 is blackmail. In Resolution 1244, which we are loiteringly holding as something that guarantees our presence in the area of Kosovo and Metohija is said to be – if we do not leave. If it hadn't been for Resolution 1244, we would have continued the bombing. It's pure blackmail. Pure blackmail is a violation of our sovereignty. A pure blackmail is the withdrawal of our army. Pure blackmail is the withdrawal of our police, of course. But we simply live in such a world, and we must bear and fight. You know, for eight years now, I've been listening to how we betrayed Kosovo. Here, you have an MP here from Kosovo and Metohija, we have them south of Ibra, we have them north of Ibra here, and they know best that we heard eight years ago that we recognised Kosovo's independence, that we signed Kosovo's independence, and that it's only a matter of weeks when it will happen, when Kosovo enters the UN. It didn't happen. No, by accident. You know, you have a Vuk Jeremic who has been asked for his negotiations and for his request by the International Court of Justice you have headlines in Pristina where they say – thank you, Wolf. Here's where Kurti asks that Thaci be replaced and arrested for what he's been negotiating and what he's accepted. You see the difference and you see why he's running away from negotiations so much. The wolf negotiates so that Kurti runs away from negotiating with his head no matter what. Wait, this is the first time we've got a dresser in Pristina who refuses to sit at the negotiating table. It's always been the other way around. So far, we've always had our hands spinning and they've been telling us to sit down, and the spears with their arms open are just as quick as you can, the negotiations will be fine. Now they're running away from the negotiations. It means you're losing something. It means they're losing something in the negotiations and losing a lot in the negotiations. Since we started negotiating 14 countries no longer recognises Kosovo and Metohija, and no new one has appeared that says, yes, recognises Kosovo and Metohija. So, you see what a change is and absolutely what President Vukic is, will arrive and arrive such unacceptable offers arrive and arrive for eight years and he has not accepted one. And every time he managed to preserve the sovereignty of our country and every time he could go to Kosovo Mitrovica and go to Gracanica to look Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija in the eyes and tell them what he had agreed, what he had done to get their support. Here, for eight years we have kept Serbian sovereignty in the space of Kosovo and Metohija and we have done so through every hope. Of those who have made us a line in Jarinj, of those who have negotiated that diplomas are valid south of Ibra, you know, here we have MPs south of Ibra, they know how many dozens of universities, not colleges, the universities have south of Ibra, who hold some diplomas, only God knows what we would have to admit and what we would get here, but we have recognised it, as before 2012, of those who now attack us, that we will stop issuing traffic permits, that we will stop issuing licenses, that we will stop issuing ID cards, that we will stop issuing any documents for Serbs living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. As you can see, we don't do it all, and we fight so hard to preserve our sovereignty. So that our salvation is gone, and we must not fail—tighten it without breaking it, and so it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72577	Thank you. You had a question. The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72578	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. MP, you're a very good judge of statistics, and I know you can analyze them. It's a little amazing that you haven't looked back on trends, that you haven't looked back on parallel analyses that say that 2018 for the whole region was really the worst year. When compared in 2019, we do not only do so compared to 2018, but we make parallels with ten countries that are primarily geographical, historical and regionally very close to us. So we took into account Hungary, which and how it invests in the family and the most intelligent policy, we took into account Romania, Bulgaria, the two EU countries, Albania and all members of the former Yugoslavia. We're the only ones who have more babies. Another piece of information you must have missed, I hope it's not trendy. In January 2020, therefore this year, 245 was born more than in January of last year. That's 5% more. Those trends are looking forward to it. Of course, I do not think that the resolution on which I have made a dominant contribution to this result, but the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of course not only financially but also those of the population policy domain and the integrated approach to solving the problem are certainly the reason that for the first time we have more newborn babies in southeastern Serbia, where the traditional situation was worse than it is now. So, if we're dealing with facts, I'd like us to look forward to this trend together. It's small numbers, but fateful high hopes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72579	Thank you. Here you go. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72580	Mrs. Djukic, we can't look forward to the trend. We're happy if it's one or two months, but it has to be confirmed over a little longer period. What has shown in the previous period is that the last six, seven years, so with a mild exception now this last year, the trend has been decreasing and only when it comes to live births and champions. Why does it matter? The important thing is that not only are fewer children born and more die, but the problem is that those who are born leave the country quickly or their parents leave the country, so the situation is even more devastating. Mrs. Brnabic, you have managed skillfully to turn the subject of losing or giving up Serbia's economic and financial sovereignty into a debate on whether or not the oil industry should have been sold. So that's where you came in, that's because the predecessors didn't do something right, but the problem is that you kept going, and this government continued these bad things, to sell things that don't have to be sold. You asked about Jelizara Smederevo." Yeah, it was supposed to be sold and it's good to sell post-poo, but let's just say Bor shouldn't have, for the airport didn't need concession, the Commercial Bank didn't need, Telekom didn't need to, and what tried. So that's the difference and that's the thing that's very important, Mrs. Brnabic. Economic sovereignty is as important as this state sovereignty. Mr. Vulin, as far as the story of Kosovo is concerned, unfortunately, the situation in the north of Kosovo and Metohija is worse today, that Pristina is more present in northern Kosovo and Metohija than it was before this government arrived. It's a sad fact that can be covered up by a failed variety of hocuspocus. So, now it's where ROSU special forces and Pristina police are taking over. Whenever they want to go and arrest whoever they want. By 2012, it couldn't have done that. It's liquid, Mr. Vulin, and the wise tactics and the negotiation that this authority led with Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72581	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72582	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to commend the maximum serious and responsible relationship between President Aleksandr Vukic and all other state bodies, and especially the health system of the Republic of Serbia towards the possibility of spreading the Coronus virus to and from Serbia. In addition, President Vukic's meeting yesterday with representatives of all health and other institutions participating in the fight against the Coronal virus, which agreed on a set of measures to prevent the emergency reactions of the authorities against the virus, so I would ask Minister Loncar to tell us exactly what measures it is, and to assess the readiness of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia to react in the event of the occurrence of the Coronus virus. When we talk about the army, we're mostly talking about facts related to its weapons, its equipment, the battleground, but every army of the world is primarily made up of people, members of the army, which are, as far as we can tell, the current government and the Ministry of Defense are extremely aware. The reconstruction of the Military Academy, reconstruction of the Military High School, reconstruction of the Military Medical Academy, construction of apartments, increase of profits to members of the army are just some of the activities of the military, i.e. is the reality in which we have been living for the last few years, so I would ask Minister Alexander Vulin to recapitulate what has been done in the last few years to improve both schooling, such working conditions, social status and, of course, the treatment of members of the Serbian Army. For the Minister of Education. We all already know what a small graduation is and what its implementation looks like in elementary schools. What will be a newspaper in our educational-experienced system and what awaits us in the near future is a national, or large graduation which is essentially part of a project that aims to improve the quality of our secondary education. Since we face different interpretations of the effects of the state's graduation on the media and on various portals, I would ask the Minister of Education to explain to us its essence what it will look like in principle and what are these effects that are intended to be achieved by introducing it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72583	The first question is about the Aaron virus to Minister Lonchar. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72584	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, here, I have just read, the latest conclusion has come from a meeting attended by EU ministers, the President of the World Health Organisation for Europe, representatives from Italy, so the Government and ministers from Italy, and what is the conclusion of that latest meeting is that the measures they have recommended, and I will also list them, are all the measures that we have literally adopted before and before these decisions have started to implement. They today made a decision on the daily and regular informing of all citizens about what is happening in each country. They have taken the measure of having to print instructions in multiple languages for all citizens coming from that area and who can be interesting. I'll remind you that we did it in Serbian, English and Chinese weeks ago. Additional funds have been granted. As far as I can see, a decision has been made to allocate an additional 100m euros from the European funds for further research related to the coronary virus. In any case, what is the recommendation is to be in daily communication with citizens, with the public, with everyone, and there is no reason for any panic, or any spread of fear or what was happening, the stampede, to devastate shops and that people enter into this process for which there really is no reason. I assure you that Serbia has done everything necessary and that is not just us. That's what all the relevant factors in Europe and the world who came to us and who had the opportunity to see what we were doing. Serbia is absolutely ready. There is currently no one in Serbia who is infected with the coronary virus. Regular testing is done, regular analysis is done, which absolutely does not mean that we will not have positive people and those who will be affected by the coronary virus, but absolutely, I want to say to everyone, nothing will change. What is expected of all of us, from Serbian citizens, is that everyone does their job, that competent doctors, professional services do their jobs, and that we citizens follow the instructions they give us. So that's the basis of everything, without any panic, without any particular fear, just a little more caution. Therefore, this is our current situation. We also have a site that has been formed since yesterday after meeting with President Vukic and our most prominent experts. I think they could see it through and out. You have regular information every morning at 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Serbian citizens can know what happened in that period in Serbia, and what happens in Europe, China and the world. I ask the citizens to only trust this official and to serve only that official information. Anything else, semi-information, misinformation, false information won't do us any good. It's the only way and everything you hear and everything you see, for all of it, you're looking for evidence and you're looking for facts, because it's the only way to protect ourselves from false news, from those who want to use this for other purposes. We all need to understand that this is not a political issue, and that many will try to abuse it and translate it into a daily political need for what they need. This is a highly professional issue, and this should be done with the profession, as it has been done. It was given to our most professional people, who have experience with this, who have been through various epidemics and pandemics. We have people who have passed the variety of faith. So, both for us and abroad to deal with who have results and who have knowledge and who can do this the right way, to have as little damage as possible, because there's no other reason, except for someone irrational, to trust those who aim to spread false news. Once again, I want to appeal to people not to abuse the phone numbers we've given and all the services we've made available to use for other things, because every call these people take seriously. When you call an emergency team and say that you've been in an infected area and you have symptoms, at the same time minimum five people move into one serious process, they're moving into the use of protection, equipment that's not cheap at all, and they're moving all the resources to get to you, to take you to the Infectious Clinic, to have as little contact as possible, not to take public transportation, not to take taxis and equipment, especially people and equipment to protect them. Don't let it happen after that, when people come that you're not in an apartment or that you've never even left Serbia, let alone been to Italy or China, because it really doesn't make sense. There's no point in misusing something we want to do in the most responsible way. It doesn't make sense to these people who are on duty for 24 hours, it doesn't make sense to the resources and the state that invests a lot. These are additional funds that are now being invested to work out how it works and to give a positive and excellent assessment to all those people who understand it, the same people who are now trying to solve the problem both in Italy and in other countries. We didn't have any other people, they were the same people who graded both the situation in China and Europe and anywhere. Absolutely the same people. The fact that some do not respond to what they have said, that some do not respond that Serbia is capable of dealing with serious things, is their problem, but it must not lead other citizens on the wrong path. So there's absolutely no room for panic. There is currently no virus in Serbia, and even when there is one, nothing drastic will change. Please let everyone do their job and Serbian citizens do the measures recommended to us. That'll be enough, no panic spreading, no stampede, no nothing. One more thing I ask the citizens of Serbia, don't buy masks, and then go to bus stations and the rest and send it abroad. Don't buy 200, 300, 500 masks that come into the pharmacy and you buy everything. Don't be so unfair. It doesn't make any sense. I want to inform all citizens, that they know, two factories in Serbia, one in Belgrade, one in Gornji Milanovac are working and will work 24 hours, as long as it takes and we will have enough masks, but we can't have if we each buy 500 masks and send them abroad, sell or do what else. That doesn't make any sense. Just be careful, we'll take a good look at what's going on, don't let anyone think, our reactions will be based on all the recommendations that go from the World Health Organization and more than that, but we'll also ask for an explanation of all the authorities dealing with this why this virus that's weaker than the common flu is causing so much attention? Why is it that when we have on the clock, on a daily, on a minute level, that a lot more people die from other things, that some other things move much faster and more often than common flu, goddesses, than some other viruses and so forth? So someone doesn't think we're not gonna get a good look at everything. I repeat, we do not prejudge any conclusion and follow all the measures recommended. So once again, I ask all citizens to listen only to the official information that exists. I thank them for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72585	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72586	Thank you. Before I answer your question, Your Honor, just so we don't remain in debt, in 2000, the Serbian state could do almost anything to KIM. She didn't have an army, she had everything else. In 2004, on March 17th, the whole world expected our reaction when the March violence began. We had full barracks, compulsory military service, we had tanks that were 16 years younger than they are today, we had a country in full capacity and in KIM, but we didn't have anyone who could do anything or say anything, and the whole world was expecting a reaction from the Serbian state. Then she came in 2008. In the meantime, of course, we did nothing, we let eighty countries, including some of the most powerful in the world, all expected a Serbian reaction, all expected what would happen with the northern KiM, all expected what the Serbian state would do. Our president fled to Romania, the prime minister was there, I guess something was doing, the Serb army put down its head, kept quiet, waiting for someone to tell her something. Nobody said anything to her, stayed in the barracks, nobody moved anything, and then they realized they could do whatever they wanted with us. In 2012, we could hardly do anything anymore because there was nothing left. There was an incursion to the north of KiM and before that, there was a conflict, there was a barricade, there was KFOR, there was a who wanted and what he wanted, so people get together, so they fight, more or less, like today, but at least today in agreement with their country and not in a fight with their country. The flow of time in KIM space did not work for us, but against us and very much against us. We've had a few historic moments when we could react to the state or the military, and we didn't. Every day after that was getting harder for the state or any other decision. You know, you now have, when the ROSU special units start, the people get together, but the Serbian Army goes into the administrative line, so it clearly shows what's going to happen, then they come back, then they stop, so it's not what they're used to being. In 2012 and 2020, they are not the same as in 2012 and 2000 at all. The fall and power of the Serbian state from 2000 to 2012 is frightening. Just because we pretend it's not like that, turn our head, pretend we don't know it exists there, pretend we haven't noticed, say, that our traffic is interrupted occasionally, that we haven't noticed that they're coming out on the administrative line, pretend that nothing's like that, it's all like that. We said in 2012 – let's accept what it is, see what reality is and fight it and do what we can to do the best we can. I repeat, we were forced to go to the negotiating table. Now the Shiplars are running away from negotiating, not negotiating, running away with their heads, because they know they're getting away from their independence, because they know, so when is it that they don't take what we gave them? Here, say, come on, let them take it, where is it? Why doesn't Kurti take that? Why does the whole world pressure us when we've given it all away? What do we do to them? Finish it, so... So we didn't give it up. You see, what you're showing, we didn't give, so here we are. We've got enough back. Suddenly the Serbs aren't under the table, they're at the table. You have to talk to them and you have to recognize their country and take care of their interests. In 2012, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, friends and comrades, when we entered Brussels, when we came to negotiate, they came to us with papers in which they just said, this is what you will end up with. We didn't want to do it, but that's how we talked. It is now acknowledged that we have our own interests, so we fight hard against them in every place and every day. So we need to understand both time and context and what happens when and what is possible, what is not possible. Wait, we had Russians at the airport after 2000. We had a Russian parachute battalion in Pristina and no one took advantage of it, no one did anything about it, no one tried to make something out of it. No, we finally threw out UNMIK, and we introduced EULEX, with the Serbian signature, the signing of Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. That's what we did. EULEX and UNMIK could not be replaced practically as far as powers were concerned that there were no Serbs. That's what we did. That's what we came to. We didn't come to have a powerful UNMIK in Kosovo Mitrovica, but we had an office, a representative office in North Mitrovica, a little bigger in South Mitrovica, a wonderful man, an Indus one, but he couldn't cross. He must not, when he is alone with you, say: “I understand everything; you are all right; this is a violation of Resolution, but what I can do. ” That's what we came to. Instead of UNMIK, which was the first transponder, they say, until KFOR is third and UNMIK is not mentioned. Now EULEX, in fact, is the Kosovo police, so it goes to a second place in EULEX. We came to that, everything was already prepared for us, and it was prepared, just to sign, put down our heads and leave. They refused, and as you can see, we're still refusing, and we're gonna stick to it. As far as your question is concerned, Your Honor, we've worked very hard, of course, nothing in the army is from today, nothing since yesterday, all of it is the product of the work of those who were in this place before me, but here, we've completely reconstructed the object of military high school, which is, indeed, our boarding school is now for every commendation. We reconstructed the Sports Center at the Military Academy, opened the most modern shooting and film shooting and gun range. We significantly improved the quality of life of the children themselves at the Academy, from increasing their compensation, providing them with new uniforms, renovating several study cabinets, equipping them with state-of-the-art teaching tools, improving the quality of food, from caloric value to taste. Until we got the kids, let's say they're getting paid bus tickets. We brought them in. The kids are secure. Believe it or not, it hasn't been done in years and we did it. A lot of things have been done, precisely for the quality of education and, of course, we have made sure that as much as possible, the teaching process itself is processed. We've made a significant effort to enlist him. The Military Academy will no longer be trained as defense managers. Since March of the month, officers and, therefore, the curricula and training programme at the Military Academy have been trained, the Military High School is more enlisted, with many more military subjects. You know, we've had examples of, say, command-command training, you don't have a single hour of military tactics or military history. You can imagine that, you're training future commanders, you're training future high-ranking officers who don't learn tactics and don't learn military history, and that's what we had. We even had cases that, say, in the fourth year of the Military Academy, zero-fighting classes. Imagine an officer who doesn't practice any martial arts, and we know what officers are, we know what kind of people they are. So we had one process of military development and that process came to an end. It's been done for the past few years, we've been returning the army to our education system. Anyone who binds his destiny to the army knows that there is a system that will take care of him. He knows that there is a system in which they will be kept, in which they will be protected. We have opened the doors of our Military Academy and the doors of our military high school to lecturers with experience, not only for those who have a doctoral title, but for those who have war and life experiences that are worth passing on to our future officers, who know how they commanded the armies, how they commanded the Corps, how they commanded divisions and brigades to everyone now pass it on to our children. We, you know, until 2012, until Alexander Vukic became defence minister, these people were forbidden to appear, what an Academy, to talk about how he fought against NATO aggression, it was strictly forbidden, not to hand over to children, yet to speak his own experiences. Today, you know, many armies of the world are looking for their experience and asking us to send such lecturers around the world to tell us how we fought in 1999. So, as you can see, we're really trying to make a significant improvement in the education system, because what we teach an officer at the academy, that's how he'll get us back after he's in the hull. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72587	Thank you. Do you have any other questions? (Boyan Bagica: It was also for the Minister of Education. ) Minister of Education, he's the strongest today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72588	Well, since I'm with you guys the most, and it's your turn. It's a very important topic. And today there was an event at the Metropol Hotel, where we had a good workshop with four countries that have had experience in state graduations for years. So, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Croatia, these are countries that have been doing this for 12 to 15 years. It is a turning point in the education system, that is, its quality. By introducing a state degree, you lose a double school graduation program through some loose graduation and some reception exams. So, the need for parents to pay extra for it is also lost, but what is most important is to ensure quality in pre-university. The big prom is an external grade and everything becomes different, completely different, there's no fake greats, there's no fake very goods, there's no fake wolves and everything that's been quasi or fake in any part of the system becomes objective. That shows the work of the facility. This shows the work of each individual teacher. It doesn't make life any better by having some kind of success formulate itself, and we've had on international, world-wide testing for years, decades, it's been repeated, we haven't made any progress or backward, that a third of the system is no good. A third of the system doesn't work because we've been embellishing our reality in one wrong way and against every pedagogy for a long time. That's what used to be repetition, correctional, enough or good, now you don't have enough, not good enough, not who repeats it. They're all either very good 3.50, so we push on. However, this will all lead to absolute order, meaning in absolute order, and thus you have that distribution of justice, equality and quality is fully appropriate. It's a big deal. So, since the beginning of my term, we've opened this IPA 14 and started a job and we'll be working for almost two more years. It's four-and-a-half years to five preps for a major national prom. It was meant to receive these European funds, and it was necessary to network and co-operate with secondary and higher education, and we had bad experiences in many small graduates. The biggest problem was not whether someone would steal the test and show it up on the street or repeat it, as it always was, because it was a public procurement and an insecure story. A much bigger problem was reviewing the tests. So, in the first two years of 2016, 2017 and 2018, the torment of living, living force was defended from giving children a better result in some regions. That's what grown-ups used to do. I wouldn't say how corrupt it is, how eager it is to make a child more successful, etc. All the regions, we've had five school administrations where they've replaced the executives, where we've been on duty and wonders there, in those regions now the achievement of the little prom is the worst. The system has also checked itself in case of last year's theft of a test, where responsibility is certainly on everyone else and I don't accept it at the Ministry, because in one day for the morning we checked 2,000 institutions, where nowhere did it leak or open. Thanks to Anna, not being here, Prime Minister, we're going to do a little improvement. So we're working together to get the Educational and Educational Quality Institute, and that's where that one added printing machine came in, they had one smaller one, which can meet the printing needs. It's all happening now in our rooms on Fabris Street, where it's the headquarters of the Bureau. There is currently a project for a major graduation and there are clean rooms, or safe rooms to keep all of that. By providing 17 scanners, I think it's going to be the same thing, we have a system that can be much easier done, so we're going to have every test that's been completed in that local school self-government and sent to the Scanning Center again in Fabris. So it's full control of the motion tests. The search, so that's where we progressed, and that's where our FON did it. And it's still in one experimental phase, but here, every day we have meetings. Every day we have with both FON and people and teams, and it's going very seriously. In the next phase, we are also preparing for the digital implementation of the final exam process, whether it is the end of basic or the end of secondary education. This year, on the lines of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, as well as the IT Council, there are over 860 million dinars, which are designed to restore and purchase new computers, both due to the introduction of the subject-matter digital world, i.e. Information for younger classes as a mandatory subject, as well as for increasing numbers and in older primary school classes, as well as in secondary schools. So, we're going to have somewhere near 50,000 high-quality computers, I say quality computers, because we're going to go back to renewing what's already past the deadline and what's unquality. By the next year, if we repeat this budget story, and it's planned, we have over 70,000 computers and we can do the process ourselves, so, without printing the tests. Both Kosovo and Metohija are included, absolutely as part of the system, and I think that education and health care is the only thing that works best as if it were the state of Serbia. And that's what people know, and that's where they feel it. What's so important? The weight of the task. So, the little prom is basically solid. The objectivity of grading schools is absolutely something everyone suspects, which is why there is. It is planned to be about 50:50, to respect the previous learning, but it is a completely new, modern model, which follows all of this, which is with design and a different role of the Institute for Quality of Education, where national testing units are formed. So, it's customary in Europe to evaluate adopted materials for three years, especially when they're new curriculas. It is the introduction of new tools and instruments, and mentors, tutors and many other models. That's what we're gonna do. But we also have a chance to do that, because our zero-grade system, the special one, prepares and eight years, to do it more often, for two years, so there's also a forecast of success and achievement by teachers, which categorizes him later for salary through so-called. payment classes, so there's this personal motivation. I have to say that all students will be included and in the pilot who is now preparing for a major graduation will also be included in secondary professional, artistic and general high school graduation. If we're doing an analysis of what was wrong on Pisa, we have exactly regions where we know we've been sick, where it's traditionally bad, where it's structurally bad. The first cycle of external evaluation by the Office of Quality has been completed and more than 30% does not meet the standards if we go more strictly over 40%. But also this beauty of reality, because you have that student or student who doesn't want to go seriously to school without being admitted to three years of calling and talking about a classic model, go to the labour market very uninterested. The institutions have no habit of warning them, that they may be taught to see them, their general level of education is at some poor attainment. So there's no justice left over here congratulatingly. That could stop schooling. But neither is the teacher of that school motivated to work better, because he has bad candidates. Introducing the pay grade will certainly be motivated, but if we have the same dual, it's a dual cure for these things. At the dual you have that the candidate gets a job security job with the company and he's interested in showing up in practice as best as possible, and that paper is good for him. Without papers for general education, where those competences he has to carry and not to embarrass himself or the country are also important. Without him, he can't get the master paper that he's capable of losing his chance to work. So all the same profiles that are through are far more serious and far more motivated student. Through the motivation of teachers, we achieve this desired effect, and that is where we will work the most to some new models of testing everything. The universities have accepted and it is some standard that in the case of major state graduates there are three subjects conditioned that the completion of schooling is such that not only applies to the final four classes, but also to graduation, without it you cannot finish secondary education, so, apart from mother tongue, foreign language and mathematics, it is a minimum. Any serious college can ask for extra. The ceiling is up to six objects. The reform of high school is accompanied by nine electoral programs that help to achieve new competences. There are many items that are prescribed by the colleges themselves. The composition of the tests, as well as the review work together with the mid- and high-level commissions, so that one electrotechnical college, medically, can not list further, can put any story at the level that can be reached by candidates who want to go there, which is all terribly serious about learning and achievements and everything is done through the electronic system, so that the possibilities of any manipulation and calculation of any protection are almost impossible. We still have two years to train it fat, to do all the pilots that are needed and to get used to it by citizens and parents and children. There'll be whining for sure, as usual, but they'll all be in the same position. They're all from some perspective that we're successful, knowing we're a step, two, but that's just phase one. In the next stages, learning, work, teaching, everything else we work on, changes, curriculas, ways of transferring knowledge and all other instruments that make up reform and which are built into a new Education and Science Strategy make up a unique continent. Personally, I have to say that national prom is a major lever and a tenuous point of the whole reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72589	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72590	I'd have a question for the Prime Minister. Three years ago, you were entrusted to President Alexander Vukic, i.e. The mandate to put together the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you have received the trust of this Assembly, to lead it when we elected you as Prime Minister and this composition of the Government. About two months from now, parliamentary, province and local elections will be held, and when you turn behind yourself, what are the results of the Serbian government that you are most proud of? Is there something you wanted to do so badly that you didn't arrive during this term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72591	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72592	That's a pretty tough question. We have done many things, indeed, without any false modesty. We've been working a lot, and I think we've done a lot. First of all, in the field of digitisation, where I said that one of the key priorities of the Government that I am leading and that one of the key challenges will be this transformation of our society and our economy towards society and economies whose development continues to be based on innovation, knowledge of added value, which will give us additional competitiveness and allow for much faster growth of average wages in Serbia. I can say that today I was pleased to visit Novi Sad, a guest at the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, where we introduced the electronic parliament system. So, since the previous session of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the meetings of the Assembly are fully conducted electronically, which was a complex project and is indeed a great success. In addition, it seems to me that perhaps the most we have done in this regard in education and Minister Sarcevic knows by not only in 2017 that we have imported all schools in Serbia to the internet within the Accademic Network of Serbia. So it was only then that we started to modernize education, which in 2019 we started to import schools to the fast and wireless internet. First, 500 schools and 10,000 digital classrooms, and now 500 more schools and 10,000 more digital classrooms since 1 September this year. The plan is to end the world by 2021, or 1 September 2021. Thus, Serbia has one educational infrastructure for each further improvement and modernisation of education. In 2017, by introducing programming and coding as a mandatory subject from the fifth grade of primary school, which is why Serbia is one of the leaders in Europe today, until thanks to all of this, next year is the first generation of children who finish primary school with knowledge of programming and coding, until today we have thousands of high school students who go to specialized IT departments and that those from generation to generation are only getting stronger, getting better and better at receiving exams and testing, and then that we invested a lot and systematically changed things to learn. We founded the Science Fund on 1 January 2019. We doubled the Science Fund's budget this year. We're planning to double it next year. We've called the first competition and in the next two weeks we're making the first call to fund young researchers. So, for the first time, young researchers have been given the opportunity to form their own teams, to run their own projects. We adopted a strategy for the development of artificial intelligence and called for the financing of artificial intelligence projects. So far, we've brought 70 projects. We're on our way to work with our young talented diaspora people, established a return point. So far, we already have 60 projects funded through the Science Fund to connect our scientists in the diaspora and our scientists here in Serbia. So all these things are duplicated, the Innovation Labour Fund, all these things we've done in education, science, modernization, and give a basis for further growth. Then certainly in the economy, what can I tell you? The very fact that the average salary has crossed 500 euros and that we ended in 2019 with an average salary of 510 euros, and here... It's only going to grow because it doesn't count for a minimum price increase. A large number of decouplings in the service sector will be transferred, thanks to the incentives given to a regulated system, to normal employment flows. Gross social product growth in the last two years is above 4%. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official This year it's planned at 4.0%. I can tell you today, and tomorrow it will be announced that the growth in January of this year is 6.5%. So we continue strong growth, the recovery of industry, and by next week I'm going to have a new meeting of the GDP council, to keep pushing as hard as we can. To unemployment, which was over 25% in 2012, youth unemployment was over 51%. Today we have a 9.5% unemployment rate. We're probably going to be the fourth quarter, which is always the worst for unemployment at 9.7%. So we're under 10% and it's an amazing success. In the last three years, we have twice been declared a world leader in foreign direct investment, that our foreign direct investment is growing every year, that in 2019 we ended up with 3.8 billion euros in foreign direct investment, in 2018 with 3.5, 2017 with 2.6. So, really significant. That's what Serbia used to dream of. So we couldn't even get close to 2.5 billion euros, and today we have 3.8 billion, resulting in a drop in unemployment and a rise in average wages. The reform of public administration, and where we have largely electronic administration today, and where today we have exchanged some 100 million documents electronically, automatically, among us, in a few seconds, which means that 100 million paper from 1 June 2017 the citizens have not collected from the counter to the counter and from the office to the office and brought it to our feet, we have already done so for them. I told the AP Vojvodina Assembly today that this government and all of us together, this Parliament, and thank you for our support and our trust, to all those who trusted in this government and those exposés that I represented, so together in the term of office of this government, we put an end to the fact that the citizens of the couriers were state or local self-government and put the real principle that we are the service of citizens. Thanks to the electronic administration, the service of citizens available to them for 24 hours, seven days a week, 365 days a year. Then to the infrastructure, highways that truly see today every single citizen of the Republic of Serbia and those who today accuse and criticise Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS and the ruling coalition cannot escape from having completed Corridor 10, that today you have a highway through Serbia from Croatia and Hungary to Northern Macedonia and Bulgaria, that we have completed the highway to Cačka, a big deal, a huge thing - only because this country is no longer the same. So, this is a different country today when you travel to central and western Serbia, that we have continued the highway, that we are building with full steam on the Cačak highway - Požega, that it should be thanks to Alexander Vukic and his application and appeal to our Chinese partners who are working on that stock, that it should be finished by the end of 2021, the highway to Požega, and that we are on our way to work on the Moravski Corridor, to connect Corridor 10, Corridor 11, the fast track of Belgrade – Budapest, that we have set off Ruma – Šabac – Loznica, that we are on the road to Prokupje, to design and negotiate now on the financing of the Fruskogorski Corridor, that we hope to start in the last quarter of 2020, as well as the highway of peace, that we are going on the highway to Prokuplje, Kursumli, Merdara. So these are all really things that we've done in the last one, it seems to me, four years, because we can't just talk since I took over as Prime Minister in 2017, because I said it and I always said it and today I say it was the government of continuity and that's why we managed to do all this stuff. But all these results really show how important, brave, serious, responsible reforms that Alexander Vukic and his team with support were, of course, the Assembly spent in 2014, when we entered into the fiscal consolidation measures, which were not needed then, which Serbia needed both in 2003 and 2004. It was only then that people were responsible enough, who led this country, to implement to make Serbia well, to get back on their feet economically and to have this growth, the development that we have today. So thank you for that question. If we're talking, in agriculture, we're systematically moving into irrigation systems. We had less than 2% of the agricultural area coverage of the irrigation system. Imagine that irresponsibility. So, we've finished the first phase with 14 projects with Abu Dhabi Fund, we've now entered phase two. We started electrifying agricultural areas for the first time. Minister Nedimovic and I will remind Leskovac during March to show that the first phase is over and we move on, I think, in Machva. We have introduced the first automatic systems against civil protection and we have shown this to the Valjevo Radar Centre, fantastic results since we introduced a system against civil protection. We end up in Užice, we end up in Bucharest and Fruska Gora. We have new markets for our meat, China, Turkey. In culture ended the National Museum, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the National Theatre in Vranj. In the army, we have new moments, new tanks, we have a vest. We have really significant progress on all the lists of where Serbia is today in its defence systems and today, if we have here and the MPs criticising that we have at any time endangered economic, financial, military, any security, security and sovereignty of this country, I can say that Serbia has never been stronger than today and in all other topics -- organised crime, the fight against organised crime and corruption. How many tons of narcotics have we seized, how many M.O.P.s have done. Today one year cannot be measured by four years before 2013, sport and everything else, population policy. It's hard to count, but I'm too happy with everything I've done and I think we've done our best. We could've done some things faster. I'll tell you that I'm sorry that we haven't completed our amendments to the Financial Support Act to families with children. We've had a lot of criticism. There were these criticisms in place. Whoever's in the next government will have a lot to do. So we have good results and it's much better support, better than it's ever been, but again we have really some things that could have been done much better. I am sorry that we may not have made more progress in terms of membership in the World Trade Organisation, for not doing a better thing by explaining why a new GMO law is needed, to better protect our consumers, to better protect our market, not to open the market but to better protect our market. I've spoken to some MPs about it. It's also something that the next government will have to worry about, and the big thing in economic terms is the country's energy transformation, and that's something that's going to be a big task for some future government, and maybe we could do some other things, but it just wasn't... Public enterprise reform is also one thing, but everything could not be reached. When we talked about public business reforms, we chose to do reform and to save all those people and jobs in companies that were really problematic for the Republic of Serbia's budget and where the lives of workers and families were at stake, such as "Gelezzara", RTB Bor and the PKK and many others where we have security and a new perspective for growth today. What we haven't been able to finish, we really have good reasons why we haven't finished because we've priorityd something else, but we've done our best. I certainly thank all of you who really believed in our plan and program and gave us support and time when people laughed. I'll tell you, and that's what I'll really end up with, when people laughed about digitisation and that Serbia's potential, in the last three years, besides Serbia being the country that is world leader in attracting foreign direct investment, we're the country that has made the most progress throughout Europe, with the biggest growth in IT exports. It's our mind that the whole of Europe now recognizes and recognizes. I am sure that Serbia's security is unquestionable and that the future will be much better because many of these things we have done will only be seen in 2021, in 2022, such as the things that Alexander Vukic and his team did in 2014, in 2015 in 2017, 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72593	Do you have a comment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72594	Although I have the right to a final comment, I would leave the citizens to make their final comment at the end of April of the month, because I have no doubt that citizens will know that they appreciate everything that they have done during this term both the Government and this National Assembly, since the citizens of the previous eight years have shown that they know very well that they judge and assess who is doing it in the interests of the state and in the interests of the citizens, and who is doing it in their own interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72595	The word has a letter from Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72596	Thank you, Chairman. I think it is necessary for you or some of your successors to join in the next session to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and that the time of the Members of Parliament, which is limited to three minutes, be either extended or limited to the representatives of the Government to their time of answer, because this is how we come into the situation that only a few MPs come to an opportunity to ask a question. I thank all the members of the government who are with us today. I especially thank Minister Djordjevic and Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Finally, an opportunity has been given to answer a specific question – then will it come to an amendment to the Law on financial support for the family with children? A pretty good overture was made by the Prime Minister. Last night I tried with the members of the initiative that I launched, "Moms are the law", to track down the number of promises that have been made over the last 20 months, as far as this law is concerned, to trace how many times this law has been promised to amend, each time under pressure or statements that have been made by families born since July 2018 or under the pressure of protests organised on the streets just out of dissatisfaction that a large number of women in Serbia are receiving truly miserable compensation during maternity leave, which are not rarely more than 1,000 dinars. So, to understand what this problem is, when the law came into force, and that was 20 months ago, some babies that were born today were walking a lot, talking, probably going to kindergarten and meeting this campaign that you announced, which says that you will fight for our children, I today represent those citizens who did not recognize themselves in that campaign and ask you -- what are we going to do, or what are you going to do, and is there any possibility that for this short period of time we have until the election is called, however, the amendment and addition of the Financial Support Act will be referred to the assembly procedure? So we counted somewhere around five announcements in the previous period. Each was tied to the next assembly of parliament, i.e. for the next session, so we had a change from spring, autumn, spring, autumn and so on forever. Here, we have come to the end of the four-year term and 20 months since the entry into force of this law but the amendments and additions to the law, except for those sent by the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are not presently available. So that would be my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72597	Thank you. Who answers the question? The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72598	I think Serbia's citizens should first know that during the DS maternity leave and pregnant women were at the level of 26 billion on an annual basis, to stand out 68 billion today. Unfortunately for us, the number of maternity and pregnant women is not higher, but the separation of the state is bigger and the state's concern about pregnant women and maternity mothers is greater year by year. The fact is, you move things over and over and over and over again. First, it is not true that every pregnant woman has several thousand dinars, because every pregnant woman who gives birth has 100,000 dinars for the first child, for the second child gets two years of 10,000 dinars, gets 12,000 dinars for a third child and 18,000 dinars for a fourth child for 10 years. Of course, in addition, we saw that, with the last amendment to the law, which you again, on purpose, always, always skip over, to be fairer, you don't talk about now covering more pregnant women and maternity and that now and those who have been on temporary and occasional contracts in the work, entrepreneurs, that they are now covered by this, farmers. That they were all now covered, that they were new categories that had not been at all and which, of course, had not been taken care of in some earlier period, and this government did so when the law was changed. Certainly, you know the fact that we have included you and NGOs in the amendments to the law, and that we certainly want to change the law every time something new happens, that it brings some improvement and that in some way our pregnant women and parents feel that the state cares about them and that the government's policy, which wants to have a better demographic picture, wants to show it in a different way, or to show that what we share in the economy, wants to be repainted in some way to pregnant women and maternity and that they also have higher incomes. You certainly know that, and we have promised that it will be in the autumn session, but then our president came out with a proposal from Serbia 2020-2025, which has a completely different look and a different approach and one big investment in one future, and among other things there is investment in that future, as regards pregnant women and maternity women, where 700m euros are defined precisely for the measures that should cover these changes. And what we can tell you is, here, there's the Prime Minister, we've thought about it all, and I'm sure the new government will probably, in its first session, go with that change. We will, of course, not wait for a new government, we will prepare the ground for a new government that will certainly have enough material to make a decision very quickly and certainly what was the idea of our president, that this money be invested in the coming period and that is how it is implemented. So in some things, you're deliberately skipping, you're not deliberately talking about what this government is talking about, and you're talking about a large number of pregnant women and maternity mothers. The gatherings you are at do not say that there are a large number of pregnant women and families, the ministry responsible for family and children and Slavica Djukic Dejanovic receives mothers and maternity care countless times. Every one of them we meet, and the last one in a row is a lie that appeared two days ago about pregnant women and foster mothers not getting any confirmation of what kind of income they receive and thus bring additional unrest. I think that such lies only contribute to someone wanting to have only cheap political points of all that, and that it is on pregnant women and maternity families, in one vulnerable category, and in some way to raise one doubt about what we do. No one normal in the Republic of Serbia will allow themselves to do anything at the expense of pregnant women and maternity mothers. Nobody, not this government. Do you think that when we get financial resources and we can define as a state, and we get in these four years a year more and more funds. Of course we're looking to spend all that money. This year 68 and a half billion will be spent on pregnant women and maternity mothers. All the way to the last dinar. If we have more children, more funds will be needed, and this government, I am convinced, secures these funds and will certainly give more. I believe until the end of this year, and until this budget is spent, there will certainly be new good news for pregnant women and maternity mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72599	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72600	I would just like to specify the plans that we have, which have already been put forward, which the president of the state carried out in the national investment plan until 2025. Therefore, support for favourable and affordable apartments to invest in 500m euros, an increase in giving in the firstborn child, more than double, almost triple. Our plan and proposal, of course, I always have to make one balance between the financial potential and the wishes we have, but our plan is that by the age of five those families who have a second child have 10,000 each month, and not until the second year. The fifth child will fully equalize with all the financial advances with the fourth. So, very concrete measures are already standing, waiting for the government and since there will be no discontinuity in the work, we argue that this investment national plan will pay particular attention to the most intelligent policy and issues we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72601	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72602	Thank you, Chairman. So, I will agree with you that it is necessary to specify when I say that it is a large number of maternity ministers, Minister Djordjevic. I might as well put it on paper. I've been trying to figure out now what number of maternity care is, which are damaged by the application of this law. So if we assume that between 60 and 65,000 women are born annually in Serbia, if we assume, or we know that this law has been applied for two years now, so today we are talking about the number of 100 to 120 000 women who have been families in the past 20 months, since this law came into force, if, according to the knowledge we have just received from the report on the work of your ministry, we assume that one third is receiving compensations that are less than the profits they received while they were working, then we are talking about the number of 40,000 to 50,000 women who have only been damaged by the poor application of this law for the past 20 months. So, when we look at it, it's your minister's reports, I haven't invented anything of that data, and I can also provide you with documentation that has reached the MPs. So I do not doubt the well-meaning of all representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have no doubt that you had the best intention when you passed this law. It is true that you in this law have recognized certain categories of women that have not been recognized so far. The problem is the way they were recognized and the problem is that you haven't heard the appeals of NGOs that are relevant, MPs who were then taking part in the debate that suggested that, for example, the measure of increasing the number of months from 12 months to 18 months could significantly affect the amount of compensation. You didn't hear us say when we told you that the compensation that comes from a profit can't eliminate the compensation that comes from the disability of children in families who have had a child with disabilities. You didn't hear us tell you that we couldn't punish women who were the most successful among us, who were limited to receiving compensation during maternity leave for three months' wages. So it's not about millions of women, it's about 2,200 women who today in Serbia are fortunate to receive more than three average earnings. These are the data that I share with you now, so among those 2,200 women there aren't many women who want to be realized as mothers or who haven't already finished with that process. My criticism of this is not on your work specifically, not that you are not well-intentioned but that you simply did not hear the other side, that we have never sat down with nor with us MPs nor with representatives of NGOs, who surely very well-intentionedly approached you and asked you, practically, to understand what the problem is and to try to solve it together. So, I ask you again specifically, do you know today after 20 months of the application of this law when this law will come into force, because the ministry does not stop working, when the government disbands, when your mandate ceases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72603	The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72604	Thank you. I'll take this on myself. So, we've seen each other several times and I've had small conversations with a number of NGOs, civil society organisations, and we can talk politically one way or another. I'll tell you, you're right. So there are some shortcomings in that law that should have been corrected, some things that we should have done differently, and I absolutely don't run away from it. I'm absolutely not running away from it. On the other hand, the truth is that the law ensured that a much greater coverage of women was supported than it had been before. So when we talk about the number of women who might be receiving less, or now they're receiving less than they would because we've raised to 18 months instead of 12 months. You should also look at the number of women who have support and didn't have it. In doing so, it is certain that those who receive less because of the scope that is extended to prevent some abuses. That's what we talked about. Honestly, I agree with you, and I think the whole team agrees with you, and that the amendments to the law will be returned for 12 months. We have another possible scenario, but I'm asking you, we can sit down one more time to look through it and finally figure out these financial effects. That it is important that much has been compensated and more has been given through these system measures of one-time aid given when a child is born, which did not exist before. And no doubt for these approximately 2,200 women who have the highest incomes, where we put on three instead of five, we also have to change that. There's this rational explanation why there's three, not five by the PIO Fund and you know it. I don't agree with that, I think they're kind of discriminated against, so we're going to change that, too. Oh, how fast. Here, I am prepared to guarantee that we as Government will prepare the final text of the law and we can go through with you and remain immediately with the next government, the National Assembly, to put to the vote with immediate application. So, at this point, there is no way for us to change it in the mandate of this government or this Assembly, by really and for all the citizens who are watching us today, I say that we give a lot, a lot more and I accept everything that we have overlooked, and what has proved to be a lack of some of the provisions of this law in practice. Once again, I want to appeal, indeed, not to all my ministers, but to all who are involved in politics to have a better dialogue with civil society organisations, to understand, to hear, not to run away from it, not to know all the best, that we have overlooked something and that we have better communication for a future government, so that in the end, before the law is passed, we can see where all possible holes that we can fix in the law-making process. So I think we've done a lot, that today is much better, that we're giving much more support. Are there any faults of that law? Yes, absolutely there are, and we need to sit down and correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72605	Comment to two minutes, MP Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72606	Thank you, Chairman. I accept your promise from the Prime Minister. So, people stick to my word, and I'd like to finish these questions about the Financial Support Act with the children. But I would use this time, and I don't need any of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to answer me now. I'll remind you that we are currently discussing a law called the Missing Baby Act. I will once again use my right as a national MP to point out that this law, although I consider it very well-intentioned, I know that you solve a problem that no one else has accepted to solve, but I draw attention and appeal to you on behalf of all associations of parents who say that this law cannot essentially solve their problem and that it can lead them to an additional problem in relation to the situation in which they are present. I urge you to withdraw the law from the assembly procedure by the end of this session. I understand that this may be a politically ungrateful move for you at the moment, but I will also take advantage of this moment of debate and appeal to colleagues on the opposition side not to abuse that moment, because there is something called higher interest and national interest. I don't think we should be apart on this issue and use the debate for cheap political points. So there really is a serious problem and there will be a serious problem with the application of this law. I ask you once again to consider and, as you have already announced yourself, that there should be better communication with NGOs, I call on you to receive associations of citizens, to hear what fates you need to solve and to understand the problem they are facing. In that sense, I would also appeal to the public that perhaps those international organisations that are pressured by the state of Serbia at the moment to pass this law, yet we are more flexible, that they are actually more flexible than they are and that the pressure on the Republic of Serbia on this issue is reduced, because once again I repeat that this is not a political issue, this is a national issue and we together have to protect the interests of parents who are looking for their missing children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72607	The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72608	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, I will raise a few questions. The first question was addressed to Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Minister, Serbia is taking big steps forward in all segments, I will say thanks to the politics of Aleksandar Vukic, Ivica Dacic, but also Dragan Markovic Palma, who visits any country throughout the country, opens the door to Serbia's co-operation with the country. But I certainly must say here that all this is not full unless Serbia has a successful population policy. That's what I think is most important to us. Minister, a lot of positive things have been done in the past, we've changed from a dead end, let's say, a lot of things. I certainly know that you Maltens have visited every place, less or more in Serbia, trying to update this very important issue for Serbia. Jagodina is an example of a successful local self-government in which the importance of population policy was recognised long ago and the results and successful population policy show that every year in Jagodina two new departments of champions are enrolled in school. What is significant, we have to say that demographics do not mean, on the one hand, successful population policy, but also, on the other hand, the successful management of migration. You know that every year Serbia loses a large number of people around 29 years of age, who go abroad, but we also lose a 300,000-sized city when these migrants are added together. You had an important meeting from the EU the other day where you mentioned this issue and I am sure my question is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will recognise the importance of this really important issue in the coming period. My question is – what are the concrete measures now, and what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do in the coming period, as regards migration management? The second question I should be referring to Nelli Kuburovic, but since she became a mother, I congratulate her from here, I think I could get Nebojsa Stefanovic, the minister, to missing babies. We in the Assembly have this law, some will say that this law may be good, some that it is bad, but what is significant we have raised this question from a dead end. So we're headed forward, as far as this question is concerned. What I'm trying to say here as the father of two girls is that it's just amazing for me to have someone take a child, and if I'm wondering about it, there's got to be the greatest punishment that's ever been provided for by our law. Question for you, Minister – will we start and change the Criminal Law in the coming period, just as this issue of missing babies is concerned?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72609	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72610	Thank you very much. This is, as I said when we discussed this in principle, a difficult topic. A heavy topic, a very emotional, deeply shaken number of people, deep earthquakes and those whose children may have died, and they would prefer to believe that they were gone, those people whose children were really stolen and whose children were missing and, after all, those people whose children did not get enough good explanations of health and others, administrative, institution and apparatus what happened to their child, why they didn't get the body of that child, why it didn't explain well enough whatever happened with the child. It opened up, of course, a huge number of questions, especially since some of those cases were 40, 30, 20 years ago. So many cases occurred at a time when today is much harder, first to understand that phenomenon. As you said, when you think about it, it's simply a horror, in the head of a normal man, in the head of a parent, in the head of a country's citizen there's no more horrible thought you can think of. Anyone who has a child knows what goes through his head first when he tells you it fell off your bike, and you're already in shock and stress, and don't give God something like this. Of course, I understand the parents who... There isn't, there's not enough good law and there's not enough good solution to bring back a child or drive away pain or solve a problem. It doesn't exist. I wish I could tell you that there is anywhere in the world, it doesn't exist. That pain will last forever. What we can do is we can actually run this thing from a dead spot and after many decades of silence, unacceptable silence, and after many decades of not being allowed by the authorities, they couldn't, they couldn't, I don't want to say there wasn't, and in other authorities maybe they wanted to get rid of it, but they just didn't do anything. That's a fact. We talked to the parents, talked to associations, talked to different experts at the ministry, the whole government engaged in this, so everyone was interested in solving. This is, let's say, the first significant step which, on the one hand, I think is good that we have found solutions that are not only about this law, but that both the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs, and I expect and hope, and the Republic Prosecutor's Office that is on its own, but I believe that it will take it as a gesture, I think they understand it very well, and I think that the prosecution is following it well, that it's basically being treated as an extended criminal act, or a criminal act with extended duration, changed family circumstances where you have the opportunity to prosecute someone, if proven a crime is committed, and for something that was done 30 years ago. Whether, in any case, I said it here when we talked in parliament in the debate in principle, whether we'll be able to get the documentation for each individual case, I'm afraid not. I hope so, but I'm afraid we won't make it. Somewhere that file may have been deliberately removed, somewhere it might have disappeared. In the end, one of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia established by the European Court of Human Rights is not only that, as it was, to say in some part of the public, to compensate for some kind of damage, to compensate for a kind of pain, a kind of suffering. Because that's what the European Court of Human Rights said, he assigned that 10,000-euro figure just to identify an institution that didn't do its job. Did she belong to SFRY, SRJ, SCG, anyway. So, to identify this and, on the other hand, it's completely one track, the second track is when we find that there's a potentially criminal act, when there's a basis for suspicion that the prosecution is starting an investigation in that direction to prove who did it and in what way. That's what we can do right now. You're right that, when we sharpened, let me say, and several times at the initiative and the Ministry of the Interior, sharpened the Criminal Code precisely in terms of punishing every crime against our children, everyone. In this sense, we have good laws, very sharp. I think that today and today with new amendments to the Criminal Code concerning and tightening criminal policy towards re-criminal offenders. I think we have a pretty good starting base, which, of course, doesn't rule out the possibility and to further sharpen in this very sense in which you said, so I wouldn't rule it out at all, and I think we should seriously consider that, too. What's good, I mean, which would be good, which is that the courts who are independent hear the needs of the people, not the ministers, not the MPs, not the politicians, listen to their people and show that as a society, we can't even reconcile, not even agree with any third term that I don't use, with someone who dares to touch one of our children. When we have it, and I often say it, when people who wear guns without permission, because we know they wear it to commit a crime, don't take it for a fair or field trip. Well, they get a year's probation. Then how do you tell people, don't carry guns. Of course, criminals will wear it and try to wear it and have someone in a society that has not been convicted before, whose first act is and who will find a thousand ways just to try to be, or bend the system. When they get it from the judge, since the sentence is from two to 12 years for such acts, when they get seven or eight years in prison, then no one will think that way anymore. When someone touches someone else's child with the intention of stealing it, gets 20 years in prison, no one else will, or there will be too much risk of getting into it. I think it's one of the solutions, consistent dragonic application of criminal sanctions for such people. We have a lot of tools for that, but we just need to start applying it. Of course, I think that another thing is very important, which we may not have talked about enough, and I also support MPs who have discussed it in the previous days, from different positions and I am really trying really hard to look at it, and that topic is one of the kind of support for society for these families. It's not enough to just do it by the government. It's not enough to do just the National Assembly. As a society, we must engage in understanding the depths of the pain of such families. What is it that we can do to be truly supportive? It's an important thing, not just in this case. I think there used to be more empathy in our society. I think we may be short of understanding society now, not just for this case, but for everything else. Today we teach children in schools what violence is. It's not just physical violence, it's not just violence, there's a different kind of psychological to economic, financial, so every kind of experience over a child or woman today has to be recognized and we have to be supportive of that society. When we look at such things in such a way, then we will come to the fact that it will be unimaginable for any individual to touch another child, then we will have less, as we already have more today than in previous years, there is less violence, every form of violence, but we have not yet eradicated it. We have not yet been able to say fully – yes, we are now satisfied with the team. It rests, it's very tightly connected, and these topics will bring about, and every year thanks to the discussion of what we're going to do in the first, fourth and sixth classes, we've hired nearly 3,000 members of the MUP just to talk to children next to the education system. I'm connecting it because when these kids grow up with that kind of knowledge and understanding, they'll be less willing to throw stones to break someone's head, because they'll realize it's not normal. They will be less eager to live on a woman because on that day they are dissatisfied with something else in their lives. Then we'll have much more effective mechanisms of our society to send messages about this. So thank you all again. I don't know if I'm going to have until the end of the debate on these agenda points that are now in parliament, but I want to thank again all MPs who are really constructive and in a serious way come to this topic, which is not easy at all. Thank you for understanding that this law is the first important step where we begin to solve these problems beyond the prosecution's work and police work. Of course, I am fully convinced and I am sure that I can say on behalf of Minister Kuburović, that we are ready to sit and discuss each of these topics and what further we can implement and change in laws to more effectively confront this kind of challenge.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72611	Thank you. The word has the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, and then Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72612	Thank you. I just want to look at your second question, and that's our diaspora and brain drain. So, that's one of the topics that we as Government together on the team with the President of the Republic, which we've been really serious and studioically dealing with in the last year and taking, I've been talking here in the Assembly a while ago about, really taking concrete steps to prevent further brain drains, which ultimately depends on the strength of our economy and its stability, from average salaries and pensions. In particular, we focused on health care and on increasing wages and pensions, so that nurses, technicians, doctors stay in Serbia, to invest in infrastructure, to work in really good conditions, to invest in equipment, to work on the best equipment, so that they can participate in their work at international seminars, so that they are in all of this equal with their colleagues abroad and more advanced countries of Europe. We've done a lot of work here, but again, as in many areas, it's a minus from which we've left so great that we'll need some more time to get up and achieve significant results, but I can tell you that we really have people, nurses, we also have doctors who have gone to perfecting and who are planning or have already returned to the Republic of Serbia. So we have a little bit of a good trend, but we can't talk about it until it's better and much bigger. Before this, since 1 January of this year, again with the really great support of the MPs who voted in favour of these laws, which were adopted in the Assembly at the end of 2019, we have introduced a number of concrete incentives, which today in Serbia, if you are in business, are the most profitable to hire our people from the diaspora. Today, if you hire our people who are in diaspora you don't pay in the first five years, you're free to pay as much as 70% of the income tax on these people. Therefore, it is a great motivation for companies in Serbia to establish contact with our diaspora people, to establish contact with universities and to return these people because at this point the most competitive is possible. Tomorrow I have a meeting in the Palace of Serbia with over 550 businessmen to inform them once more personally, specifically about these incentives and to invite them to establish a kind of communication and co-operation that we together find our people in the diaspora, offer them jobs and that they return to Serbia. So in the first five years, 70% of the order for profit they don't pay. Also, in order to keep young people in the country, we have also introduced significant tax incentives since this year for new employees so that in the first year they were freed 70% of total taxes and contributions, in the second year 65%, in the third year 60%. So again as a businessman, you find it particularly interesting to give jobs to young people whose first job is to do. Then, for the diaspora, we raised the limit on the import of personal items. The limit was 5,000 euros, which we called the diaspora people to return declaredly, but when they want to return and should, say, import their personal belongings, cars, books, if they come back with family, property they have over 5,000 euros, they pay customs duties on these personal things as if they buy them and import them into Serbia. We've now raised to 20,000, and if they've been abroad for over 10 years then I don't think there's that limit at all. We speeded up the nostrification by the law that passed the Assembly, I mean in January, if I'm not mistaken. So, we speeded up nostrification, we cut deadlines from 90 to 60 days, plus as of 1 January 2020, we introduced electronic nostrification so that we could track how quickly the diplomas are nostrified to introduce complete transparency, so that these people don't torture but can and can apply abroad, they don't have to physically come here. So, at this point, we have about 80 cases in processing and we're tracking how fast it's going, with that, if you've finished college at the first 500 universities with three top lists – Shanghai, Times and American, it's going automatically within eight days. Today, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a strategy to stop economic migration from Serbia, covering some of these things that we have already done and giving way to what we will do in the future. Along with some of our diaspora organizations, such as the "Serbian City Club" from London, and "Serbian Entrepreneurs" from San Francisco and New York, we have opened this program called "Return Point" to provide concretely, so now they have people who are employed, only doing so with a great support of the UNDP, for those people who want to return all the information, concrete support and job-finding and nostrification of diplomas, with the extraction of personal documents and everything else, that those people really see that we are open and that we want to support their return. It seems to me that we've had the most concrete measures so far. Here, tomorrow I have a meeting with the economy, to invite them to work with us on this, to meet them, because many of them don't follow the laws that we adopt, they don't know about these incentives, to invite them, to introduce them, and to follow them together. I hope we really have good results in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72613	The word has a minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72614	Mr Kosanić, to thank me for asking these questions and for taking advantage of the opportunity, it seems to me that the time factor is probably this on this topic of my last address to the MPs, to thank everyone for contributing to the common, first of all, to increasing the visibility and importance of the topic of population policy and to reminding me that, thanks to the National Council for Population Policy, chaired by the President of the State, the Council for the Population Policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, chaired by Mrs Ana Brnabic, the Cabinette, whose head I am, but absolutely all of the ministers and all of you, we have made the first, perhaps most difficult, step in the last four years. Opened up many questions, they were often criticised that things were not better, and in fact, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the first time, at President Vukic's initiative, deals very well with these issues in very close collaboration with the media, with the academic community, with economic operators, with units of local self-government, which you said something about. An example of good co-operation with international organisations is contained in both your question and your interest in what actually happened when experts from the United States, Sweden, Italy and several other countries, and not only demographics, but economists who deal with population policy and people who know ethics well, came to our country. It is the seven truly top experts of the world who have been engaged by UN organisations, which deal primarily with development and population issues. So UNDP and UNFPA stayed on active visits and worked here for a whole working week. They first came to an insight into all our documents, all the things we talked about, both the president and I. They have come to see how we imagine that the units of local self-government, so cities and municipalities, those places where the famous wings of the UN "leave no one benevolent", that no one remains behind the column, that those most sensitive are included in our programmes, as we apply them, and of course made certain recommendations. What are those recommendations they made? First of all, the population policy has three essential elements. The analytical measures that we have talked about on several occasions, with all the comments that they need to be improved, that in some segments they must be better and better and better quality and that they are not just financial ones, because when they are only financial ones they are very quickly exhausted and have no results whatsoever. These are very limited and non-financial measures and we talked about them here on several occasions. Therefore, harmonisation of labour and parenting, service activities that will lower the psychological cost of parenting, incomparably more knowledge about reproductive health, incomparably more knowledge about demographics, programmes for healthy motherhood, partnership in child rearing, etc. It's just one segment. This other one's about migration. The Prime Minister said a lot about what we did. What did they suggest with everything we've already done? They think that our dealing with diaspora must be a little different and that kind of recommendation has been made. They feel that, simply, our people who are abroad should be stimulated to come, but the point of return is already working on, to technically make it easier for them what they need from the paper if they decide to come, how they can get the relief from starting a job, to be here start-appers, in which way they need, for example, to solve the issue of their health insurance, in which way they have to solve a whole series of administrative issues that took a lot of time before. They also believe that we are not using enough transfer of knowledge, joint projects and have suggested to both the president of the country and in talks with all of us gave very concrete suggestions for the middle of different sizes, which are dominant of their proposals, in which way people who are originally related to a particular region of Serbia can have a communication that will not only be a financial investment, but that path to return to Serbia can actually be to start through different forms, first of all, transfer of knowledge and joint projects. They also suggested that one body at the level of the Republic should deal with human resources. They estimated that the fact that we are old and on average our resident is 42.3 years old requires that the population policy must be focused on very concrete active ageing programmes and they started from being people before they will be retired to work organisations to have an advisory function, to prepare for pensions in which they should also be active and active within all their psychological and professional potentials. They believe that there is a great untapped potential that would have to be completely different. Also, they think we should be more prepared to welcome future generations of our fellow citizens. You know, statistics say 14.3% of people up to 14 in Serbia and 20.2% of those over 65. This is the data that requires very concrete measures in all the planning documents, and now that we are talking about action plans and plans of the unit of local self-government, we are trying to work together with the NGO sector, that together with the representatives of information funds, we are talking about how important these plans and priorities are for each environment, because, although Serbia is not big, the priorities for population policy are different. So the size of the local self-government unit is very important. The formation of bodies that will deal with human resources from a prenatality period, during a period of pregnancy, birth, early development, especially during a period of fertility of working efficiency, as these periods overlap. This is what we have received very, very concrete proposals and I must say that they have left Serbia with the conclusion that we belong to those countries that are very serious and integrated in the region and approach these problems. Of course, they also gave part of their insights to the President of the Republic as President of the Council for Population Policy, and gave us very, very useful suggestions in the cabinet. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72615	Thank you. Comrade Kosanic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72616	I thank you for your answers. There is no Minister Mali, but someone from the government can answer me if it is realistic that Serbia has the highest salary in the Western Balkans in the coming years? I am sure that this is realistic, given that I am sure that in the first quarter of 2020, Serbia will have the biggest growth in Europe. On the other hand, in December we had an average salary of 510 euros, and I will remind only that a few years ago that salary was 340 euros. I'd like to refer the second question to Minister Lonchar. Minister, the current subject - the crown. We heard extensively that you said that Serbia is fully ready, don't let God come to us. I'm only interested in one thing -- is it, and I'm sure it is, is Serbia fully controlling the borders and do we have full co-operation with people in the environment who already have, let me say, certain cases of the crown? One more question. Information has emerged these days that Serbia will be exposed to great pressures to, I say, resolve the status of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. Our President, Alexander Vukic, said this question is waiting for us in the coming period. It mentions some new Ahtisaari plan, now called "Ahtisari Plus, Plus", so I'm interested in whether, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a state, we are fully prepared to meet the challenges, given that the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, will be in Washington for the other day, and then in Berlin for the other day? And, uh, one more question. Minister Vulin, for so many years, we've been waiting for a new anti-aircraft system this time, vest S1. It seems to me that in the 1970s, we won the Kub and Neva in Yugoslavia. I have to say that, in addition to everything we've received in the previous period, the moments, the helicopters, all the weapons, but our dedicated industry "Lazard", Milos, we've got one powerful system, and the question for you is, is it realistic that in the coming period, we're further strengthening our anti-aircraft defense and we get another... Let's round up, better say, a system of one powerful system like "Buk-M3" or maybe watching Serbia's "Tor - M2"?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72617	Thank you. The word has a prime minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72618	Thank you. I'll start with only salaries, then I'll leave it to the ministers for their districts. So thank you for that question. That's pretty easy to answer. As far as the Western Balkans region is concerned, only Montenegro is now running away from us, and at this point only a few euros on average, and if they were far above us three years ago, so we made it up to them, and I believe that in 2020 we become the country with the highest average salaries in the Western Balkans. So I can guarantee that this will be the case, but it's not our ambition, so our ambition is to look at the region wider and slowly make up for it and get over everyone else in the region, Bulgaria, Romania, and then everyone else. So, let's run a lot faster than they're running at this point. We have shown that we can do this in recent years, and I think that this is really the moment where our economy is only going to accelerate because at the end of the day, we are going to have the results of all reforms, not only in 2014 but also of everything else that we did in 2017 and 2018, as I have already said. So, I guarantee you, as far as the Western Balkans are concerned, we'll be the first to outrun and Montenegro in 2020, but that's not what our ambition is. Our ambitions are much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72619	Thank you, Mrs. Brnabic. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go, Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72620	I'd like to start by leaving the deal I have in the morning at 8:00 and 1800 hours, and the latest report for today in 1800 hours, that neither today in Serbia is registered nor we have any positive on the coronary virus. What's important is, I like specific questions and I don't want to lie to anyone, if someone thinks it's possible and it's realistic to close such a line and make a barrier to get through everything except the crown of a virus or some other virus or some other bacteria, citizens don't need to have the illusion that it's possible to do that. So, what we want, we don't get carried away at all that we can do, that everywhere around us there's a coronary virus, and that we hope it never gets into us. We're not even a little unrealistic people, we know how life works and that people and goods work and everything, so that the possibility of stopping just the coronary virus or someone else at the border, letting go of everything else, isn't real and doesn't exist, there's no one to get carried away with doing it. But all other measures have been implemented. What's our goal? That any suspect, potentially someone who could be infected with the coronary virus, we can locate him as soon as possible and take over the competent services, do what's necessary to do. I remind you once again, when someone comes with the coronary virus and someone is positive with the coronary virus in Serbia, absolutely neither is the end of the world, nor is it serious or too serious that it should cause any kind of stampede, type of panic, type of anything. I repeat, at that point in time, the authorities are doing their job, and the rest of the citizens are listening to the recommendations they make. So that's what it's all about. I have to repeat, the coronary virus is often weaker than the flu virus that exists and who it currently has. Let me remind you that up until a few weeks ago we had 24 thousand registered with flu, so it dropped to 12,000, and today we're at 9,000 and we have people dying of seasonal flu. Therefore, I only ask people to keep this in mind and not to buy false news, to provoke anything else, because this, absolutely Serbia has taken over everything necessary to do and not to come and when positive people come to the coronary virus, the system is organized at the highest possible level to do its job. We've got professional people, we've got adequate equipment, we've got extra amounts of drugs, we've got everything that's necessary, and we've created an organization that requires that we work in these cases. Not only that, but we've done more and done more than recommended. Let me remind you, we introduced most of these measures before the World Health, EU ministers, ministers from some countries in the environment today. So all we're talking about is facts. What's going to be the question, what are we going to have to get all the answers, as well as professionally and as the public and all, what is it that separates this virus that's weaker than the flu virus, to pay this much attention to it? So these are some things because of the future that we have to analyze well now, well let's see for future generations to know how they're going to react and what they're going to do, because you have to learn from everything, to get the experience to do. Once again, there's absolutely no reason to panic. We don't have any positives on the coronary virus right now. When that happens, nothing changes, it's no reason to panic, everyone has to do their part of the job, Serbia is absolutely ready for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72621	Thank you, Dr. Lonchar. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72622	Thank you. Let me remind you that we, the anti-aircraft system, got it in 1975, and the last "Cubs" arrived in 1983. In the meantime, everything has happened since the civil war in the former SFR, NATO aggression, and here we have not acquired a single modern anti-aircraft asset since then. The vests have now arrived. "Pancir S1" has arrived. Our anti-aircraft defense is stronger than it was, much stronger. People are trained to work on them, they're prepared, they're supplied. They are now, right now, able to defend our skies, to defend our country. You know, in 2012, when Aleksandar Vucic became defence minister and there were days when no other Hunter could fly, no other hunter was able to protect our sovereignty. We didn't have any tires, we didn't have any gas, and we didn't have any ammunition to talk about. You know, we had days when you couldn't protect your sky, so it kept quiet and lied about actually protecting our sky, and there wasn't that either. From 2000 to 2012 a total of eight MiG rockets were purchased, and we have 14 MiGs. That's all they bought, eight missiles. Today, every member of the Serbian Army, each has two M10 uniforms and another working M93 uniform, each. Every footman has winter boots, summer boots and gets now and army shoes, which he's never had before. If you're a member of, say, military police, special brigades 72, 63 or reconnaissance units you have a special uniform, you have an M93, you have an M10, you have deep summer, shallow summer, winter and another summer boots. You have four pairs of boots. All our facilities, all our units, all our barracks are supplied with ammunition, food, fuel at a higher rate than ever before. We had days when we didn't have enough food for the army, when we let them go home to eat just so they wouldn't spend that little reserve we had. In 2008, the colonel paid 837 euros, which was the best year, at least per salary, today he receives 1,101 euros on average. Lieutenant received 423 euros, today 564, Lieutenant 456, today 574, Captain 497, today 646, Major 557, today 756, Colonel 654, today 904 euros. The average salary of our flyer is 145,000 dinars, and there are new aircrafts, state-of-the-art aircrafts. These days, he's got the flight equipment he chose, not which someone told him, but showed us the pilots -- this is the best flight van in the world, bought, these are the best, boots, these are the best glasses, these are the best gloves, they've been bought, this is the best jacket, it's been bought, on the most modern aircraft. We were told by our pilots that they believed they were going to retire without ever sitting down in a new means. Now come not only are they new, but are also the best in the world, HA 145 is the best helicopter in his class, MI 35 is the best helicopter in his class, no better. The PVO system vest is the best in its class, there are no better. So, not only did we buy a new one, but we bought the most modern one, but we bought the most modern one, but we bought something that really needed our country. That's why you see so many attacks on our country. So whenever Serbia strengthens, they attack it. When she's weak, when she's nothing, when her army has nothing to do with getting out of the barracks, then they don't attack her, then we're all good, then everyone praises Tadic, then the Croatian president remembers how nice it was to talk to Tadic, of course, because there was no Serb army he commanded. Today, when they attack us, you know, they attack us because Alexander Vukic, as commander-in-chief of our army, created a better army, created an army capable of protecting and defending our country. You know, many countries in our environment allow other countries to protect their skies, Montenegro, Slovenia, now Northern Macedonia, other planes guarding the sky, other countries. That can't happen to us, and it can't happen. Our air force guards the Serbian sky, no one else can protect it. That's why our army gets stronger every day, and don't let them scare us when they're saying bad things about our army beyond the borders of our country. They're doing it because we've made it stronger. They're doing it because now this country has finally got someone to look after. In this House, I am infinitely grateful to this high home for supporting the strategies that we have regulated national defence, which we have regulated our views in the future of our defence, where we have said that this country is militaryly neutral and that this country will keep Serbs no matter where they live. Thanks to this parliament, for the first time we have had the strength to say that we will not be members of the NATO Pact, that we will not be members of any other pact and that we will keep Serbs wherever they live. But it wouldn't be possible without an army that's in that state to do it. You know, we had an army where they made famous heroes of 73rd and 63rd parachutes. Now you have an army that has brought them back to the brigades, which is their best strength, allows them to advance, to school, to get more education, to get more rank, to get bigger salaries, to have better and better equipment. Our Army projected 1,500 and 1,500 plus is equipped with state-of-the-art night sightings, state-of-the-art firearms, the best uniforms we make ourselves, and we're very proud of everything we make ourselves. Well, we introduced after, you know, at the time of JNA's record year there were about eight new assets introduced into the weaponry. Last year we had 49, not a small thing, but a "Nore", "Lazari", "Miloshi", "Li Miloshi", "Laste". So our whole army changed and it really changed for the better. Well, you have today, you have rocket artillery that can't be praised by anyone in our environment. We now have modernized modular fires with increased range, with the ability to carry ammunition in the Martian order, that you don't have to wait to fill it, the rate of response has been shifted from 20 minutes to 2.5 minutes, which is most important in the war, that you are able to fire, hit and disappear from the given place. You have an army that develops in every sense, an army that both friends and enemies must respect. When you see the Serb army, and I hope that many of you will have the opportunity to come to see our parade on Army Day, where we will show all the latest we have acquired, all the latest things that have been introduced into our weapons, that you will have the opportunity to come, to see, to feel the pride of what kind of army belongs to your country and what kind of army you, the MPs, have made your decisions with the uninterrupted support of our army. This is an army we can be proud of and able to keep Serbs wherever they live, but also our Serbia. I have to, these are the last minutes of today, before the elections, I want to thank you all, and I want to thank you for the opportunity that here the Army can be the last, to conclude that we live in a better Serbia, a more modern Serbia, to be kept by a better and safer army, people who have always been top patriots, top professionals, but now they have both the commander-in-chief and the state-leading who is able to help them, to preserve them, who are able to bring back to them the fallen faith when they have stopped believing that Serbia will protect them and that Serbia will understand them. Without you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this wouldn't be like this. You have helped your army, and one day I am sure that you will be infinitely proud to tell your children how you have strengthened Serbia's Army and how you have created this great and important institution that has guarded and preserved our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72623	Thank you. Mr. Djordje Kosanić has the right to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72624	I just want to thank you for the exhaustive answers and wish that in the coming period, Serbia is going even further ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72625	Thank you. Due to a brief comment, you also provided the possibility for Mrs Paunovic to ask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72626	It's called quality coalition co-operation, counterpart Marinkovic. Respect for Serbian Prime Minister and Minister of the Republic of Serbia. We heard a lot of quality answers here, and indeed in the final, my first question was sent to the minister without portfolio to Professor Slavica Djukić Dejanović, and it was, above all, the population policy as the most sensitive issue, and somewhere as the Serbian Assembly and as the Government, we stressed that it was the biggest and most important task, first of all, that you received from the President of the Republic. I know that in your answers and so far you have explained to your colleagues how much the ministry has managed to do for this short period of time, although here we are really talking about the results that will only be seen after a certain time distance, because simply, increasing the birth rate is not something that gives the current results. Secondly, I want to hear first of all from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, it is, for the sake of the public, not for the sake of us who are in this room, we know what our greatest national interest is, which is the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, but I want you to say on behalf of the Government and respond to all those insinuations coming from Pristina as a consequence of impotence, above all, the newly formed governments of Albin Kurti, which are based on certain threats and concern some measures of reciprocity, which I can almost claim, even Albin Kurti himself, do not know what they would look like, nor can exist, because what was Belgrade's relationship with Pristina and so-called leadership and so-called so-called so-called leadership. The self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo was more than correct, if today's justification requires for their fees that have no basis for anything that is civilized, in any reciprocity. Then I ask you, for the sake of the people of Serbia, and fully aware of this timing, to say what is it that the Serbian government will do unequivocally all the coming years, regardless of what we are ahead of the elections and the formation of a new government? So, I want to hear what I already know, but because of Serbia's public, that Serbia will never give up defending its, above all, sovereignty through an action of withdrawing recognition. I'm sorry Minister Dacic isn't here, but I know it was a program of the entire government and you cooperated, so I'm asking you to answer the question in his absence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72627	Thank you. We have time for another answer. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72628	Thank you. I will finish, if I may, by answering your question about Kosovo and Metohija. There have been conversations on this subject today and a lot of questions, some accusations, some ambiguities, some insinuations. I will say only one thing for me which is an indicator of the results, first of all, of Alexander Vukic's policies and then of the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to say that, not from the point of view of the Prime Minister, but from someone who is from this Serbia and witnesses, after all, and for a whole series of decades as it was done on this issue and what status this issue of Kosovo and Metohija had. If one thing can't be slow today, it's this one. Today and some of the leading countries, the world's leading forces that have recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, say it is not a closed issue and that the point of the issue has not been raised, that this is still an open issue, call for dialogue and call for some compromise as a result of the dialogue. What a compromise it can be and what a compromise is acceptable, which is the issue of this dialogue. Before 2013, it was a closed question. As I recall, it was for all these great forces the closed question, there was no dialogue, there was no call for compromise, there was no sign of what our future was. For them, it was a closed question. It was truly unimaginable and, if we are to have our hands on the heart, for all of us in Serbia, it is unimaginable that these forces, and especially that I am thinking about the United States, Germany, Great Britain, France, say what they are saying today, which is – let's sit at the table and see what the long-term normalisation of the relations between Belgrade and Pristina means. It is indeed a historic success, the incredible success of Alexander Vukic's policy and certainly not a dispute, the leader of your party, Mr. Ivica Dacic. So, I really think, from the point of view of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we have achieved something that was difficult to imagine and that today we are running a smart policy in which Pristina is the one under pressure, in which we have not heard this famous flossula for over a year, which we have been suffering from, which we call on both sides. We've interrupted that fleet, and it's a serious interruption of the continuity of one perception where you have two sides that are equally unreasonable and are arguing with one another. It was also difficult and unimaginable to break the continuity of the two sides, where you today have one serious Belgrade, one serious Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the official, the president of the Republic and one Pristina and their political leaders with whom they really don't know what they're going to do right now, which doesn't say that the pressure won't come back. That's what the president was talking about. Unfortunately, he'll be back, and we're the only ones who need to be ready to do it and the difference in our policy today is that we're ready to do it and we know what's going to happen and we're doing it proactively and we're fighting smartly. So, I really think that today we are in a completely different situation, but also not to forget, indeed, no less important, one big important thing in all this is that we have managed to make Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija unique and that we have a Serbian list. While we were indivisible, while we were there fighting and disunited, what were so many politicians from Pristina, and from all over the world playing that card, they were counting on it. We were no force, no power, no political factor. With the Serbian List, that changed. The Serbian list is now a factor, an inevitable factor, a factor that everyone must also talk to the international community, and countries that support us, and countries that do not support our position, including those temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina. When they will not and promise not to talk, they must eventually come, sit down and talk to the Serb list. It's incomparable our position today and our position once upon a time. Sometimes when we had that opinion of the International Court of Justice, which was all but in Serbia's interest, and when we were ousting the information that the UN had with the EU's powers and many other things. So, but the fight may be more difficult today from this perspective than ever because our citizens are used to us sometimes being able to win, so sometimes they have greater expectations, while they believe that we can only lose and that everything is done is done in such a way that it is against or contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia. I can only guarantee the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whom I believe they already know, that we will continue to fight, that we will continue to fight bravely, that we will be responsible, that we will work non-stop, that we will prepare ourselves seriously for all the meetings and all the appearances of our abroad to continue to fight with this standard that is set, in the end, by Alexander Vukic, from 2014 and that we will always go out honestly and tell the citizens about what the situation is, what is the situation on the ground, what is it that we can get out of, and ultimately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will make the final decision and we will always, always, always, listen to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-0.u72629	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're done. I thank the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, and the ministers for today's participation in the work. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you, everyone.
