ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72243	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the twenty-sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 62 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72244	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have for years also warned Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabic of the harmful activities of Zorana Mihajlovic in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We keep asking and repeating - when will this person be removed from the government because of everything he does there, what does it do to the interests of Serbia and Serbia's citizens? Already everyone in Serbia knows about the famous Zoran's bags that cost between 2,000 and 5,000 euros, for a 5,000-euro brooch, for a 3,000-dollar chain, for a necklace that was paid by 14,000 euros, but that went well, that was a decrease, the regular price is 42,000 euros. Everyone knows about the theft of 300,000 euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget for the US-based Bechtel. Everyone knows about her theft from the government card she tried to cover up, so when it was discovered in public that she was buying underwear from the budget, then one part of that money came back and no one asked how she could pay it back all of a sudden. As far as the crime is concerned, it will likely be the subject and the competent authorities, especially in view of the fact that her closest associates were arrested or defended from freedom, that she was directly accused of being given part of the bribes they were taking. There is something else that is very dangerous, which is the fact that Zorana Mihajlovic is a foreign body in the government of the Republic of Serbia, or that she is literally a spy in the government of the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, it should be recalled that she brought then-US Ambassador Scott into the government of the Republic of Serbia and that he stood under the Serbian flag and in that place under that flag said that Kosovo was a republic and she laughed with a smile from ear to ear. In that, probably unknown in the world, she was a personal friend of the American ambassador, probably unknown in the world to establish a personal connection between the ambassadors of a country and a member of the government. The fact that she's paralysed the work of the catastra in a year also says that she's actually working against the state and against the government, whose member she is. Its pledge to hand over Serbs to the UN tribunal is also known. She was the only one when The Hague asked for Seselj to return, the tribunal requested that Seselj return to The Hague, she was the only one in the government to insist on it and vote for it. The latest what happened, and it is about The Hague tribunal, which confirms our position that Zorana Mihajlovic is a spy, is what happened here ten days ago. She then said here that Petar Jojic and I would be extradited to The Hague tribunal. There was news yesterday that indeed the UN's Appealal Major Tribunal ruled that Peter Jojic and I were being tried in The Hague for some of course fictional work that never existed, and Zorana knew at that time what the whole of Serbia would know, that the extradition of our Hague would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the contrary to the decision of the Great Court in Belgrade, which was rightly established that there was no legal basis for our extradition. What's interesting here is how Zorana Mihajlovic knew ten days ago that The Hague tribunal would decide to bring Peter Jojic and me to court in The Hague. We refer our question to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic - did they know about it, or was it an exclusive knowledge of Zorana Mihajlovic, and if the two did not know about it, then we repeat our question – until when will this spy and this criminal named Zorana Mihajlovic sit in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72245	Thank you. National MP Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72246	Thank you, President. I refer to the proposal to the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of a discussion on the law on the Old Fair Memorial Center with the minister, it was the impression that there was an understanding to resolve this proposal. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, as is widely known, advocates a consistent fight against fascism, fascist ideas, chauvinism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism. Although Serbia has suffered great sacrifices in the fight against fascism in World War II, many memorial centres in Serbia are inadequately viewed, or inadequately preserved, and not some of them are in devasted condition. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia spoke about the importance of preserving the memory of the fight against fascism, as well as the victims of the loss and historical era when adopting the Law on the Old Fair. We then mentioned other memorial centres outside Belgrade, which are historically related to the events of the period, such as the Logor on the Red Cross, "12. February" in Nis, "Shumarice" in Kragujevac, "Bagdal" in Krusevec and others. We have proposed that all others receive special status, i.e. status of national importance. That way, clear plans, programmes and defined strategies would preserve monuments that testify to the terrible times behind us. They primarily deserve sacrifices regardless of whether they are Serbs, Jews, Roma, or any other people. It is widely known that some local self-governments do not have enough resources to maintain, let alone to function and open to visitors, so in this sense, in each budget of the Resoring Ministry of Culture, information would increase the position of cultural heritage. With this in mind, we propose an initiative to form a network of Serbia's memorial centres, such as a network of institutions for the protection of fixed cultural goods. By forming a network of Serbia's memorial centres, it would give special importance to preserve the country's cultural heritage and send a message to the world and to all those who participated in the fight against fascism. Also, by setting up, maintaining and using a network of memorial centers, an educational and educational approach, we send a message to generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72247	Thank you. The word has Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72248	I thank the chairman. My question today is to address the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. In fact, these days, on March 19th, the mandate of a commission formed two years ago is due to expire. It is a commission to investigate the conduct of state authorities in lighting up reported cases of missing children in the Republic of Serbia. We, as we all know, have on the agenda of this session a bill that should sort out the missing children issue in Serbia and this is not the first legal act and the first obligation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made on itself. What I'm interested in today is exactly the work of this commission that was formed two years ago. The Commission has tasks, inter alia, to establish a plan and dynamics for the collection of facts and to identify other circumstances related to investigations into reported cases of missing children in the Republic of Serbia and to carry out cooperation with the authorities responsible for conducting the investigation, to establish, on the basis of the information received and the circumstances considered in connection with the ongoing investigations, a review of the current conduct of the investigation, to prepare an opinion on the effective way in which the investigation could be advanced and to propose to that end the concrete measures to be taken. So, I remind you that there was a lack of public debate on the draft law on the agenda and that this same Commission had an obligation to report to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the relevant committees every 60 days during its term of office. As a member of several committees responsible for dealing with this topic, I have not had a chance to face a single report that the Commission submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for four years. In this regard, therefore, my question is – when will the Commission, and it would be good to do so, given that the bill is on the agenda of this session, to do so as soon as possible, report to the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to what conclusions it has come to, so that we can do so in the right way in the days to discuss the draft law which is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72249	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72250	Thank you. I'm going to ask a few questions about the problems of our people in southeastern Serbia, specifically Nis, Srljig and that environment. First question - Low Military Hospital, or the Nis Military Hospital, when will a contract be signed with RFZO, related to the treatment of patients, civilian persons at the Nis Military Hospital? Just because we have great faith in military health, in military medicine, in people, in doctors who work at the Military Hospital, that's why. It is a question of a large number of people – when will the contract be signed? Where and when will our civilian faces be able to be treated at the Nish Military Hospital? That's one question, and I expect it to be resolved very quickly, precisely because of our people living in southeastern Serbia, who want to be treated at the Military Hospital, because we have a really big trust in health care and people who work at the Military Hospital. As far as the second question is concerned, it concerns "the railways of Serbia". Otherwise, we all remember last year, the time when most of the tanks turned into a section of the road from Nis towards Srlig, it was the village of Jasenovic. It's a village between Nis and Srlig, where we remember the time when people were evacuated because of the very dangerous chemical ingredients that were in those tanks. At that time, representatives of the Railways were on the spot, the minister in charge, where people were promised that because of the need to repair the railway, otherwise I could say that the railway in the area is done with real intensity, it is done in the best way, it was agreed then with the local community, representatives of the ministry and representatives of the city, that in the village of Jasenovic and the village of Matejevac the crossing is done, that there is a crossover to be ensured, that this is true in the whole section of Nis towards Svrlig, according to Književec, to make the crossings available. The question is, it is agreed with locals and with the local community that in Jasenovic village, both in the village of Jasenovic and in other villages to do roads through the village, due to the heavy traffic burden due to the repair of this railway, there was damage to August in the village itself. I was talking to the locals and I promised and now I ask and ask – when will it be done through the village of Jasenovic the promised share of the road, to fix the road, reconstruct it, put it into function? Another question is, as far as that goes, it's a low-voltage network. Because a complete low voltage network was built in the village, everything was done in an adequate way, properly, but not put into operation. The question is for Electrodistribution in Nis – when will this low voltage network be put into operation? Like I said, it's all done, it just needs to be connected. Once again, it's a big thing for all of us living in southeastern Serbia, where we have problems with the low voltage network to do this low voltage network, to change the banners, to set up the traps that all of us living there have the same voltage and that, since we're really regular paid, that in every part of our southeast Serbia has the same voltage of electricity, the same power and that everything is done right. Once again, I expect this to be settled. I'm sure in the coming period we'll have a solution for the Nis Military Hospital, to have a contract signed, to do this road infrastructure. I would like to point out once again that the railway is done with full intensity, full power, that it will be right. Once again, I expect an answer – when this part of the road will be done through the village of Jasenovic, to make a spring crossing through the village of Malce, i.e. through the village of Matejevac and through the municipality of Srljig, that is the village of Prekonoga, the village of Niševac. There's a range of transitions that are very frequent, where there were unwanted things, where there were deaths, where people were killed because of car accidents. Once again, I think it's important for all of us to be safe, in the first place, and then everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72251	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72252	Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are daily witnessing that for who knows which time Montenegro's President Milo Djukanovic is seeking an alibi for responsibility because of a great people's dissatisfaction provoked by the law on religious communities. Now, Mr Djukanovic points out some deformity in Serbian nationalism and the alleged interference of Serbia, and even some alleged impact of Serbia on the change of government in Montenegro. Of course, it's about notorious truths that are being placed on the continuum. On the other hand, the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic and the head of our diplomacy, Ivica Dacic, made it very clear that Serbia will never, nor interfere with, the internal affairs of Montenegro, but also that it will consistently, in principle and categorically fight for the rights of the Serbs in Montenegro, which are undoubtedly more and more vulnerable from day to day and where Serbs from day to day in Montenegro, and I will remind them, close to 30%, suffer various inconveniences. On the other hand, in Serbia, the status of Montenegrins has never had or will have. They have a completely equal status with all the other nations in our country. So there is no Serbian nationalism in Montenegro, but that is why it is more than ever expressed by Montenegrin nationalism, even to the point of jeopardising elementary but universal rights, such as the right to religion. What concerns is the question that I will ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the fact that recently affirms the alleged possibility of the Montenegrin army being activated allegedly in preserving public order and peace in Montenegro, and it is logical that it is a tendency that implies influence or pressure on all free-loving citizens of Montenegro who are peacefully protesting in lithium that are constantly organised against the threat of all universal rights of man, including the right to religion. Even in that direction, it goes so far as to seek the support of special units from Pristina. The question arises how many of these are, can we say the threats, seriously? Simply, no one in Serbia thinks the situation is radicalizing. Our leadership by peaceful means will consistently seek a solution to all issues, including the most serious issues regarding the threat of religious rights, which has been an eclectic example of endangerment in Montenegro for a long time. My second question is to ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It refers to water supply in the Republic of Serbia, given that there is one fact that cannot be doubted, which is that water supply and water facilities, such as captages, accept water etc. where more households are connected to the same facilities, they have water supply problems due to the inability to maintain and manage. According to the Water Act, if a large number of users are connected to such water installations, they are in a situation where maintenance costs cannot be financed in any case in a manner that implies orderly water supply. Under the same law, local self-government is required to take over management and maintenance, however, taking into account the inability of the resources of financial resources and everything else that monitors the maintenance of water industries, mainly local self-governments do not take over the management and maintenance of such water installations. The question arises whether the projects can provide additional resources that would allow local self-government to maintain and take over from suburban settlements. In Zlatibor County there are ecluent examples of inability to supply water supply in the vicinity of Užica, the local community of Ljubanje, Sevojna, Lužička dolina, etc. where additional resources and additional financial assistance would allow water supply to be established in a way that implies meeting all users with the needs that are essential, and no doubt that one of the most essential needs is the need of a man for water. In that sense, and I end this issue, I believe that the resolution ministry, possibly through certain projects, would help those local self-governments, especially underdeveloped local self-governments in the territory of the Republic of Serbia that are unable to, financially endure this, to call it, burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72253	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72254	Thank you, Chairman. My first question goes to the Ministry of Energy and Ecology. So these two ministries. It concerns a problem that has recently, in recent days, died slightly, but recently, to a large extent, occupied public attention in Serbia, and this is the enormous air pollution we have had this winter on several occasions. There's been a variety of speculation about who's the main culprit and transferring responsibility from one polluter to another, from one institution to another. In any case, the authorities and the competent institutions mainly treated themselves and in some ways targeted individual consumers and solid fuel as the main culprit. Of course, it is easiest to transfer responsibility to small consumers and to those who use wood and coal. With that in mind, not getting into this debate, I want to specifically ask a question for these two ministries, because I got information from experts that it's actually not as much a problem in using coal as in using low-quality coal, extremely low quality. Apparently, this kind of coal and some kind of coal used in us until the early 1990s were not allowed at all, so they're treated like mud, like waste, with a huge amount of clay in them, and that's why they're such a contaminant, and they wouldn't have to be that coal is something better. That's why my question for these two ministries -- who controls the coal sold on the Serbian market? Are there any special inspectors for how many of them are involved? Is there a lower limit? It is clear that there are classes, but is there a lower limit to the quality of coal used, which is allowed to be used for sale, and is there then something that is forbidden? According to my information, there's no lower limit, and that's why, among other things, we have the kind of pollution we have. My second question, or first of all, is going to the address of Prime Minister Ms. Ana Brnabic, who as early as yesterday in Berlin met with US envoy for the Balkans, Matthew Palmer, and on which he once again called her instead of having to call her, but to ask him about some of the statements that the US diplomat made over Serbia, about Republika Srpska and Montenegro. In particular, Mr. Palmer allowed himself the freedom to say, to criticise the behaviour of Milorad Dodik, not only of him, but of the entire Republika Srpska, the institutions of Republika Srpska in this recent crisis following a decision by the Constitutional Court of BiH that reaches out to the property and constitutional powers of Republika Srpska and then said, quote Palmer: "Unless he changes his behaviour, continue with anti-day activities, Milorad Dodik will not be allowed to survive." It's a literal quote, no one has denied, Dodik will not be allowed to survive. I ask the question, who won't let Milorad Dodik survive? What is the institution or individual who will not allow it if he is elected or the president or the leadership of Republika Srpska by the citizens of Republika Srpska? In this connection, Mr Palmer gave himself the freedom to comment on Russia's behaviour very critically, saying it destabilised the region in contrast with it, or the United States, which aimed at peace, prosperity and development of the Balkans and indirectly supported Montenegro's Law on freedom of religion. So, simply, my question, does it feel, does it personally, yesterday or the next day when it meets again with him or one of the institutions of the Serbian state, think it should respond to such statements politely, politely, diplomaticly, but resolutely, given that they are, by all criteria, humiliating to the state of Serbia and to the vital interests of Serbs in the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72255	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72256	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two parliamentary questions today, which are not directly connected at first sight, but essentially are. The first question was addressed to the MUP, and in connection with a hooligan attack on the SNS premises on Vrakar two days ago, so on February 23rd this year. In fact, did the members of the internal affairs launch an investigation to determine who the perpetrators were, or who was behind this vandalism? Why am I asking this? Because it doesn't go almost a week, the chairman, without reading the news that somewhere in Serbia there has been an attack on the SNS offices or a physical attack on our party activists. Every week we read that glass was broken somewhere on the windows or doors of our offices, how the graphite destroyed the entrance to our rooms, how they were attacked, physically attacked our activists on the ground, how insulted they were, how threatened they were, etc. I won't even mention social networks, everyday threats and the most monstrous insults on social networks. So it's become such a common phenomenon that I'm afraid soon it'll stop being news. If this continues it will become normal in Serbia and that is what is extremely worrying. The rise in aggression spread by the hysterical minority in our society is the result of Gilas's, let me say, frustration between Gilas and Gilas' followers and aims to spread hatred and intimidate political insolents. I really think that once we have to stand in the way of this kind of violence and vandalism. My second question is to REM, and it refers to an open announcement that soon new documentary films on Alexander Vukic, such as those propaganda garbage they called "The Vladar", will continue, which was broadcast on TV "N1" the other day. Namely, whether REM will react to this far-fetched "N1", and in order to protect public interest in the field of electronic media and to protect users of electronic media services in accordance with the law, and in a manner appropriate to a democratic society. So it's not enough that they did two parts of the hour-long spit on Alexander Vukic. It's not enough that they rephrase it afterwards. It's not enough that they've been spinning it all the way back to their canals. It's not enough that they did television shows after they analyzed the whole movie. It's not enough that they're running a chase against all of us who, I say, have condemned these goebbels methods. Imagine, we dared say we disagreed. We dared to say that it's not right what they're doing. He says one of the co-authors of the film, a certain Jovana Polic, poses as a director, to make another documentary about Aleksandr Vukic. He says: “In this documentary, we have lost many answers to many questions. “ I guess now they're going to make new movies, a little bit of this so far, a little name is that they mentioned Wolfie 442 times in one movie. They're a little over 40 negative epithets repeated in that movie. Here's what it looks like, insincere, blasphemy, indiscriminate, destructive, radioactive, self-loving, despot, sick, evil, insatiable, manipulative, lying, narcissistic, unsupervised, toxic, exclusive, ossion, insecure, unempathetic, insatiable, insatiable, potential, aggressive, self-sufficient, unscrupulous, negative leader, authoritarian, populist leader without charisma, blind, blind, sees, Vukic is the continuation of the continuity of madness, autocrat, fraud, populist, fan-leader, banalan, political defect, snake nest product, Alexander Vukic is the continuation of the tragic collapse of Serbian society. These are all the epithets we could hear in this movie. Now, there's a little bit of it, so let's make new and new movies. The wolf turns out, according to them, the worst man who ever existed, just can't beat him in the election. So it is clear that the original nerves of Gilas, Šolak and all the other tycoons are slowly turning into open rage, because they have failed to do political damage to Alexander Vukic, so they will now be making new and new films, new series, new daily lies, which will be played on their media after 24 hours, seven days a week. Just one last sentence, the chairman, if anyone else asks me, why did Gilas then give 6m euros to Slavisa Lekic over NUNS, the answer is quite clear, I will just smile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72257	Thank you. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by Minister Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and Finance Minister Sinisa Mali, with their associates. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 4, 5, 7 and 8, from 10 to 28 and from the 30th to 35th agenda, which does not mean much to you until I read the names of the acts. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search of those points 4, 5, 7 and 8, from 10 to 28 and from the 30th to 35th agenda. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72258	I thank you, honourable presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. There is a law before you on the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil disabled war and members of their families. Serbia has long waited for this law because there was not enough political will, but also the courage to introduce issues from the field of martial law protection in a fairer way. Namely, is there anything more sacred than defending our country when it is necessary and is there anything more important than adequately protecting those of our citizens who responded courageously to the call of the state when it was necessary? It's not rare in our history that the state's concerns for its fighters have lagged behind and thus sent a negative message to the public that it is not wise to defend its country. In our recent past, the state has responded to a certain degree of protection of fighters and their families, but by ignoring, inadequate treatment, it has put these brave people on the sidelines of society, ashamed of their heroism and their victims. Isn't that proof of the state's treatment for the heroes of Koshar, Pastric, for the brave pilots and all those who gave life for the homeland, because they kept quiet about their heroism? This government seeks to correct this injustice and to place its heroes where they belong, in a history that will be remembered with pride. The relationship of one state to its fighters and their families is a relationship to all ancestors and to all future generations and represents a guarantee that the country will survive and will continue to develop. This is how an important area itself is complicated, because it covers all the wars this country has been through, from World War II to today. For this reason, regulations remain in force throughout that period. So, the current protection of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil disabled wars, civilian war victims, as well as members of their families regulate: earlier federal lists -- six laws, regulations of the Republic of Serbia -- three laws, former regulations of the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and KIM -- three laws, two government regulations. Therefore, it is 12 laws and two government regulations, which is already a conglomerate of rules that are complicated and effectively difficult to implement. It is therefore important to point out that this law for the first time uniquely for the territory of the Republic of Serbia regulates the area of martial law protection and the protection of civil persons with disabilities. It was in itself a great challenge and a great responsibility. We have no claim that this law has covered all needs, all sensitive areas, but it certainly represents a good starting basis for further improvement in line with our country's demands and economic opportunities. In addition, the law has implemented the harmonisation of the rules in force so far in this area with the Constitution, which provides for special protection for the users of martial protection, in accordance with the law, and the harmonisation of certain provisions with other laws has also been carried out. In addition, codification of all regulations in this area has been carried out. In fact, this law has been implemented by an earlier idea that the total legislative matter in this area should be governed by one regulation. The reasons for such an approach are multiple, because it is a matter related to the same basic definition, based on the establishment of the rights of certain categories of citizens, to legal-technical ones, because within one law, all the essential elements and criteria for the categorization of users of the right, the type of rights and the way they are used provide a better overview of the matter, create conditions for better practical application of legal solutions, thereby ensuring a greater level of legality in this area. The main objective of this law is to regulate this important and sensitive area of combat and disability protection by establishing appropriate rights and protection levels to ensure that they have the lasting value of fighting to defend our country's independence, sovereignty and constitutional order. On this basis, the law contains solutions that, compared to events in the near and distant past related to war and armed action in peace, but also to possible adverse events in the future, which we hope will never happen again. In addition, analysis of the material and social situation of this category of users has shown that there are a number of problems and needs to improve the protection of certain users. Starting with the commitment to keep the amount of the base for determining the income and the amount of these incomes, they are shown on average from the average net earnings in the Republic of Serbia, without taxes and contributions. The main intention is to retain rights in the same amounts that are prescribed by current regulations, with a certain increase in the amount of personal and family disability. The law also contains a significant number of other amendments and new solutions for the implementation of basic material and legal provisions governing the conditions for the exercise of rights in this area. Most of these solutions concern the precision of certain concepts, procedures for the exercise of rights, means of proof, conditions for the exercise of rights, supervision of the enforcement of this law and others. This law also provides for a new category of users that did not exist under the rules so far, and these are fighters who participated in armed actions in the 1990s and in the war in 1999, which, under the circumstances, did not get physical damage. New rights are prescribed for this category of users, and these are: the right to a martial law, Article 86, the right to a special retirement internship, Article 93, the resolution of housing needs, Article 94, the right to a wrestling monument, Article 104, the right to the legitimacy of a fighter, Article 107, the right to priority in employment, Article 111, the right to a fighter on a uniform, Article 116, the compensation of funeral expenses, Article 113. This corrects the injustice against the fighters of the last war and, as already pointed out, provides for the improvement of their overall position in society. However, they must bear in mind the limiting possibilities of the budget at this point, but with the emphasis that the grounds are created to further improve the size and height of the rights in the country. In addition to those rights, new rights are prescribed for other users, and these are: firstly, the right to the family disability of members of the family of the deceased civilian wartime group who used the care and assistance supplement, Article 50, which is paid in the amount of the family invalidity of the deceased military disabled, which is 26% of the basic. The right to a disabled wartime disabled disabled person who has spent 65 years of his life, who is entitled to a pension that is recognised as a first to fourth group war invalid in a monthly amount that represents the difference between 100% of the basics, which is the amount of the average monthly tax-free income and contributions in the Republic of Serbia for a month preceding the right and pensions achieved for two months. Third, the right to a disabled wartime disabled disabled person who has spent 65 years of his life, who has not obtained the right to a pension that is recognised as a wartime military invalid for the first to fourth group who is over 65 years of age and who has not obtained a pension of 100% of the basics, i.e. the amount of average monthly income without taxes and contributions in the Republic of Serbia for a month two months preceding the month in which the right is exercised. Fourthly, the right to address housing needs is prescribed under the obligation of the local self-government unit to allocate at least 10% of the total number of dwellings built under planned investment under projects to build housing for social housing on its territory, as well as 10% of the value of planned investments by projects of other types of housing settlement issues to address the housing needs of military people, civil invalids of war, family invalidity users, first category fighters and users of the MNP. Fifthly, the right to legitimateize, except for a person who has recognised the status of a fighter and a military disabled, a civil invalid war, a parent, a spouse and a child of a fallen fighter, a soldier dead or killed in the military, a civilian victim of war, a dead military invalid and a dead civilian war. The legislation shall constitute a public document proving that the identity of the identity has been recognised. Certain rights that have been recognised so far have been prescribed in a larger amount, which are, the personal disability of wartime wartime disableds, peacetime military disableds and civilian disabled wars. All private disability groups have also been increased. Such a solution because of continued user demands and because the previous governments promised them in part additional personal disabilitys which were recognised by the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that were brought to them during the inflationary period 1992 and 1993, in order to maintain the level of these incomes, which were abolished in 2006. The amount of personal disability increased by 25% from the basis of the most severe people with more damage corresponding to the disability of 100% of the first group. Also, the basis for determining the financial amounts of the personal disability has been changed, and it represents the amount of the average monthly tax-free earnings and contributions in the Republic of Serbia for a month preceding the month in which the law is exercised. Under two, a family invalid whose users are members of a fallen fighter's household, persons who died or died in the military, as well as a dead military invalid, have been increased for the same reason, for which personal disabled persons have been increased, in part the return of previously abolished supplementary family disabilityes. Also, the basis for determining the monthly amounts of personal disability has been changed, and it represents the amount of the average monthly tax-free earnings and contributions in the Republic of Serbia for a month preceding the month in which the law is exercised. The right to a disabled wartime invalidity allowance has been extended to users of this right, which has so far been recognised as compensation during unemployment only for unemployed wartime people from the first to the fourth group. Now this right is recognised under the same conditions except for the nominal amount of rights and the unemployed wartime disabled from the fifth to the tenth groups. So far, these military disabled persons have exercised their right to unemployment under the law on monthly income rights during the unemployment of wartime wartime people from 5th to 10th group of armed actions after 17 August 1990, entitled "right to monthly income during the unemployment of wartime wartime people from 5th to 10th group in the same amount". However, under that Regulation, this right could only be exercised by users of that right on the day of the adoption of the Regulation, and not by new users. Now this right will be able to bring about other wartime military disableds from fifth to tenth groups, i.e. all wartime military people with less than 65 years of life if they are not in labor. Fourth, right for free and privileged driving. The paper is an increase in the number of privileged drivings from three to seven trips for military people with disabilities and for family disability users from one to two trips. The increase in the amount under recognised rights was made possible by changing the basis for determining the monetary income for parents of a fallen fighter, increased family disability, care allowance, orthopaedic supplement, disability allowance of an unemployed military invalid, invalidity allowance of a military invalid in employment, invalidity allowance of a wartime invalid who turned 65 years old, cash benefits for the purchase of a passenger motor vehicle, monthly income and family allowance. This law also prescribes the rights of fighters, wartime and peacetime military disableds, civilian disabled wars, as well as the rights of members of families of fallen fighters, dead fighters, dead military people, persons who died or died in the military in peace, dead civilian wartimes and civilian war victims. The law laid down in this law is based on the principle of compensation for damages and on the principle of national recognition. The law prescribes conditions for obtaining fighter status as well as for its classification in three categories according to the time and territory of its military engagement. The law covers participation in the war and armed actions taken during peace, in order to defend sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Serbia. Participation in the anti-fascist battle in World War II as a member of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the April War from April 6th to April 17th 1941. Participation in the anti-fascist fight in the Second World as members of the Partisan NOB squads and the Partisan troops of Yugoslavia, i.e. JNA, period from 17 April 1941 to 15 May 1945. Participation in the anti-fascist fight in World War II as members of the Yugoslav Army in the country, between 17 April 1941 and 15 May 1945. Participation in armed actions to defend the sovereignty of the SFRY's independence and territorial integrity as members of the SFRY Armed Forces from 17 August 1990 to 27 April 1992, and for members of the SFRY Armed Forces stationed on BiH territory until 19 May 1992. Participation in the armed actions taken during the peace to defend the sovereignty of SRJ's independence and territorial integrity, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, or the Republic of Serbia until the entry into force of this law as members of the SRJ, the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, or the Republic of Serbia for the period after 27 April 1992. Participation in the war to defend sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the SRJ from 24 March to 26 June 1999. A fighter's property for the recognition of rights under this law is related to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Data is the possibility that this property can be achieved by a foreigner and the status of a fighter is recognised by a person who voluntarily participates in the war, or by armed actions taken in peace, by the fact that this person had to be joined by official military units. The recognition of the status of the fighter and the classification of categories shall be carried out by the resolution of the authorities responsible for the operations of the disabled. The law stipulates that the property of a wartime military invalid may be recognised by a person who has suffered damage to the organisms for which the wound injury or injury or disease of at least 20% was caused, under the circumstances of Article 5, which defined the concept of a fighter, as well as during a prison of war. The law prescribed a circle of faces and special conditions for the recognition of the properties of a peacetime military invalid, with protection covering soldiers serving a military deadline, a participant, or cadet of military school institutions, listeners to the school for reserve officers and persons serving in Serbia's Army. The condition for recognising the properties of a peacetime military invalid based on an injury or injury is the damage to the body must be at least 20% and based on the disease at least 60%. The property of a civilian disabled war can only be achieved on the basis of the physical damage caused by an injury or injury of at least 50% resulting from the abuse or deprivation of freedom by enemies during the war or during the conduct of war operations on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as from lagging war material. The news is that in civil wartime, or civil war victim, a person who has suffered physical damage or died as a victim of a terrorist attack abroad as a diplomatic or consular representative of Serbia in connection with his official duties is also considered to be a victim of a terrorist attack abroad. Under the current law, these persons can establish the status of a peacetime military invalid. This solution is an exception to the general condition for recognising the properties of a civilian disabled, or civilian war victim, by which only damage to the organism occurred in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the family of a fallen fighter, a dead fallen fighter, a military disabled and a soldier, who died or died in the army and a civilian disabled war, or also a civilian victim of war, and this law has prescribed that this circle of family members who can achieve this right, this law, and thus the protection of these users. The existence of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, as conditions for the recognition of the right, is necessary and at the time of application of the right and at the time of application of the rights recognised, the beneficiary of the right under this law, who does not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, ceases the rights recognised on the day of application of this law, unless he has acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, except for a wartime military invalid. The provision of this law, Article 32 tax, states all 25 rights which can be exercised under this law, amounts to the rights to be paid by this law in an appropriate percentage of the basics. average monthly tax-free earnings and contributions to the Republic of Serbia, for a month preceding the month in which the law is exercised. For the right to a disabled wartime invalidity allowance, this base is increased by 30%, and the basis for the right to a fighting allowance is the minimum amount of pension in the insurance of employees in the Republic of Serbia according to pension disability insurance rules, by the month, which two months earlier, the month in which the law is exercised. By establishing the basis and a certain percentage of the base, it was necessary to achieve a certain level of protection for these users, but also to comply with the financial opportunities of the budget. It also created the basis for economic progress in the country to improve the material position of fighters and members of their families. The law, both in Articles 34 and 39, lay down the conditions for the classification of military and civilian invalids of war in disabled groups, military disabled persons from first to 10 groups, and civilian disabled wars from first to seventh groups, on the dependence of the established disability group, set out the amount of personal disability belonging to military people with disabilities and civilian persons with disabilities. The news is that the current amounts of personal disability to all disability groups have been increased, i.e. the percentages of the basics have been increased, thus improving their material position. By law, members of the 40th to 46th mentioned members of the family of a fallen fighter, the deceased military disabled first to seventh group, persons who died or died as a military person in peacetime conditions, as well as members of the family of the dead civilian disabled war group with 100% disability who were granted the right to an allowance for care and assistance by another person, who can exercise the right to a family disability, as well as the conditions for the recognition of this right. The right to a family disability can be realized, that a widow or widower of a fallen fighter, a dead military invalid from the first to the seventh group of persons who died or died, as a military person in peacetime conditions. As a new right, it is also prescribed that family disability rights can be exercised by members of the family of the dead civilian wartime wartime group with 100% disability, which has been granted the right to an allowance for care and assistance by another person. The conditions of so far applicable rules regarding the years of life with which they can achieve this right, limbs at 45 years of age, or widower at 50 years of age. If a widower or widower uses the right to a family disability, as an accomplice with a child, he has the right to a family disability, as long as the child has the right to a family disability, regardless of the conditions, in terms of years of life. A adoptive child or a stepdaughter may be entitled to a family disability for up to 15 years, and after that, only on the condition that they are in school. The conditions related to schooling are precise, by binding schooling to certain years of life, so that if a child attends high school, the right to a family disability can be achieved up to 20 years of life, and if he attends a higher school institution up to 26 years of age and 27 years of life, respectively. The right to a family disability is also recognised during the first, second and third degree studies, i.e. Doctoral studies. The inability to work in children exists if the basis for this incompetence occurred 15 years ago, that is, during the time the child used a family disability, while she was in school. Decisions are prescribed to determine how family invalids are determined, when this right is applied, or when used by several family members, as well as who has the right to a family disability, as well as the kind of family and disability. The news is that the increased amounts of family disability per fallen fighter, per person who died or died in the military and after a dead military invalid, will have a positive impact on the material position of these families. Provisions 53 to 57 stipulate that the right to a care allowance is a right which, under the current applicable rules, military disabled and civilian disabled wars which are classified as three-degree care supplements and the monthly income user, which are classified as two-degree care supplements. The amount of rights shall be determined depending on the degree of the care allowance. The right to add is given by military disabled and civilian disabled first group wars, as well as the disabled second, and fourth groups that have total damage to the organism is equal to damage to the first group's military disabled organism. The right shall be reserved without any change as regards the degree of allowance for the care of the process of recognition of the amount of the right. With this right, it is analogous to the right to increase the monthly monetary income due to the bonding of the bed. Under the law of the AP Vojvodina, which also translates into a fourth and fifth-degree care allowance. The provision of Article 57 reserves the current rights of a military disabled and civilian disabled war, which has been granted the right to an allowance for care, on the compensation of the amount of social security contributions, which he paid for the person with whom he concluded the contract on work, which provides the person with care. The provision of Article 58 stipulates that military people with disabilities from the first group to the seventh group and children users of a family disability exercise the right to a child's allowance, under conditions and in the heights laid down in the rules on financial support for families with children. Provisions 59 and 61 of the members of this law stipulate that the right to an orthopedic supplement. The right has been established without change in relation to the current rules. It is recognised as a military or civilian disabled war from the first to the sixth groups, the property recognised by amputation or severe extremity damage or by total loss of vision in both eyes. Right to orthopaedic supplement, classified into four degrees by weight, type and cause damage. The amount of rights shall be determined depending on the degree of orthopaedic supplement. As part of the first stage of the orthopaedic supplement, the current increase in the amount of this right of 25% was contained, of the current amount of disability in which there are two or more first-degree damages. The right to health care under this law can be exercised by a fighter, military disability, civil invalid war, the user of a family disability, the user of monthly monetary income, as well as by members of their families in accordance with the regulations governing health care and health insurance. Article 63 states that military people with disabilities can exercise the right to medical and technical assistance, in accordance with health regulations. Exceptionally from this basic solution, it is prescribed that a military disability, for damage to the organism under which it is recognised as a military invalid, may exercise the right to prosthesis, orthosis or wheelchair, greater standards than those provided for in the health regulations, which are prescribed under the legal act. The aid shall be recognised with a fixed duration and shall not be deemed to be permanently recognised law. The right to Banjski climate recovery, the current right to Banjski climate treatment, belongs to military people with disabilities, civil persons with war and people with disabilities, is not an extended vision of treatment, but is recognised to improve their general health status. The criteria for military disability, civil invalid war and the user of the family disability are laid down and can be addressed to the Banja climate recovery. The right to professional rehabilitation and financial assistance during professional rehabilitation is exercised in accordance with the law governing the requalification and requalification of persons with disabilities. Provisions 66 to 73 stipulate that the right to an invalidity allowance under this general name contained three rights and that, under one, the right to a disabled wartime invalidity allowance in a working relationship, under the current law, was called the right to a martial law. Under two, the right to an invalidity allowance, an unemployed wartime wartime invalid, belonging to all wartime disabled persons, and it is the users of the current right of compensation, during unemployment, a wartime wartime wartime invalid from the first to the fourth group, by law and the current right to monthly income during unemployment and a wartime wartime invalid from the fifth to the 10th group under the regulation, is recognised as being 100% of the base for wartime wartime disabled, from the first to the fourth group, and 63% of the base for wartime disabled, from the fifth to the 10th group. The paper is that the right to monthly income during the unemployment of a wartime wartime wartime invalid from five to ten groups, according to the regulation, is prescribed by this law as an active right of all wartime wartime disabled persons from five to ten groups, so that this right will also be able to achieve wartime disabled people who have so far failed to do so under the regulation. The news is that this right does not cease permanently by establishing a working relationship, as has been prescribed so far by the applicable regulations. This right which has ceased for the purpose of establishing a working relationship may be regained by the user and when the established working relationship ceases the user without his will in cases where there are no justified reasons in terms of labour regulations. Under three, the right to an invalidity supplement of a wartime military invalid who turned 65 years old is a new right. The right to a disabled wartime invalidity supplement that turned 65 years old and retired is recognised in the amount of the difference between the basics and pensions achieved. The right to an invalidity supplement of a wartime military invalid who turned 65 years old and failed to exercise his right to pension is determined at a monthly amount of 100% of the base. This especially protects those users when they become incompetent to work because of their age, and so far has not been the case. Monthly income represents the right to ensure the protection of materially unsecured users of the rights under this law. This right is now prescribed in different forms in several laws in the field of martial law with different user circles and in different amounts - monthly cash receipts, cash aid, disability allowance, basic cash compensation and exceptional cash compensation. The users who make this right, according to current regulations, are World War II fighters, as well as military people with disabilities, civilian disabled war, family invalids, members of the family of the dead World War II fighters, dead civilian wartime victims and civilian war victims. Since this right is exercised by those persons, if they are materially unsecured and during a time when they are materially provided, the right to receive monthly income does not constitute a permanent form of protection, unlike a personal and family invalidity, because they depend on the income of users and members of their households. Changes in household income can lead to an increase, reduction or loss of this right. The absolute impediment to the exercise of this right constitutes a working relationship, the conduct of business on the basis of a work contract or temporary and temporary transactions, a membership in companies or another profitable organisation, a entrepreneurial, or autonomous activity, a remuneration of earnings during unemployment, an exceptional monthly income. In addition to these, material security is introduced as an absolute disturbance under the rules in the field of social protection, ownership, association or lease of more than 10 hectares of agricultural land – Article 76. The paper in relation to the applicable law is that only one amount of single income allowance has been established for all single users, which is 42% of the basics of the current rules belonging to a single user without cadastrian income, which means that the single-rate supplement of 21% of the basics, belonging to the user with cadastrian income, is translated into the amount of a single-rate allowance of 42% of the basic – Article 80. The amount of the right shall be determined at a percentage amount of 70% of the base unless the user and the members of his household make the income, and if they achieve 40% of the base. If the singles belong to them an extra of 42% of the base. The law is recognised from the first day of the following month following the adoption of the requirements and further as long as the conditions laid down for it exist. The user is obliged to report any changes to family, property conditions affecting the reduction of rights. Changes affecting the increase in the amount of rights shall be taken into account at the request of the user. The first-degree body is obliged to carry out a process each year during April each year to determine whether, on the property or family occasions of the users, monthly income has changed since the impact on the reduction of rights and if it is to decide on the resulting change. The right to a family allowance is the first to provide material protection for family disability users recognised by a deceased military invalid who belonged to the right to a care allowance. It is recognised to be 85% of the users whose household has no income from influence on the right, or 60% of the users whose household generates revenue from the impact on the right of the amount of allowance for care achieved by the dead military disabled. Other conditions for the exercise of this right are the same as for the exercise of the right to monthly income. When it comes to a combat supplement, the provisions of Articles 86 and 87. The law is attributed to the right to a fighting supplement, which is a new right belonging to a fighter who has established the status of a fighter under this law, is recognised to a fighter older than 60 years of life if he and his family members living in a household do not make the tax on those incomes. The amount of the right shall be determined by the corresponding percentage amount of the minimum amount of pension in the insurance of employees for the month preceding the two months in which the right is exercised depending on the category in which the fighter is classified. In this way, the material position of the fighters is protected in the event of the risk of age and which makes it impossible for it to self-inflicted. Article 88 provides for the right to compensation for accommodation costs in social protection institutions. The newspaper in the exercise of this right is that it also participates in the compensation of those costs and the beneficiary of all his incomes recognised under this law, by providing him with a sum of 25% of the total amount of those receipts for personal purposes. The amount of the cost of accommodation in social protection institutions cannot be greater than the amount of the private invalidity of the fourth group's military disability. The provisions of Articles 89 to 92 stipulate that the right of the first group of military disabled persons to obtain a passenger motor vehicle in relation to the resolution of this right under current applicable rules is that the passenger motor vehicle is not granted to the user, but the cash compensation for its purchase of 16 average net earnings per month preceding the month in which the right takes place. Article 93 provides that a fighter who has been recognised as a fighter by a decision of the competent authority under this law has the right to be recognised by a special pension internship in the field of PIO during the time of the war, i.e. by armed actions. Article 94 provides for the right to address the housing needs of users of the rights under this law by making it mandatory for the unit of local self-government to, in accordance with the part of the real needs shown, set out at least 10% of the apartments built, or 10% of the total value of planned investments by projects of other types of housing resolution, such as more favourable loans, subsidies for the purchase of property, renovation or construction of the house, and others for the resolution of the housing needs of the beneficiaries of the Bora-Ivalid protection. The criteria for the distribution of these apartments will be prescribed by local self-government. The right to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions can be achieved by a fighter, a member of a fallen fighter's family, a war-to-war disability, a peacetime military disability, a civil invalid war and users of monthly monetary income in accordance with regulations governing specific conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces. The provisions of Articles 95 to 98 shall provide for the means and conditions for the achievement of the cost of travel which constitute the costs of transport in internal transport, by rail or by bus, of the right transferred from the current federal and republican law, without any change in the part relating to the costs of transport. The right belongs to users, under this law, when they use transport elsewhere and procedures, for example, to come to the medical committee, which are being initiated under official duty and procedures that are being initiated at the request of the parties if the request for a final solution is positively resolved. The provisions of Articles 99 and 103 prescribed the terms and conditions of the exercise of the right not for free and privileged driving of military people with disabilities, civil invalids of war, the users of the family disability, the bearer of the monument in 1941, as well as persons decorated with the Order of the National Hero. The right has been transposed from now on. The news is that the number of drivings, with an annual privilege, has been increased from three to seven for military people with disabilities and from one to two drivings for family people with disabilities. Other users have been kept driving by current rules. The right to a fighting monument is laid down by the provisions of Articles 104 to 106 and thus a fighting monument has been established as a national recognition of a fighter. The provisions of Articles 107 and 110 stipulate a new right, a right to legitimacy. The right belongs to the users of the right under this law, and the legitimacy is a public document that proves the property which is recognised to the holder. Basic conditions are prescribed for the assignment and use of this legislation. The priority in employment is set out in provisions 111. The Authority of the State Administration, the Autonomous Region Authority and the Authorities of the Local Self-Government Unit shall, in accordance with the regulations governing the field of work and employment, if they meet the conditions of competition or advertising under the same conditions, give priority to the employment of the following persons in order to: 1) the child of a fallen fighter; 2) the military disabled and 3) the fighter. Provisions 113 to 116 require conditions and means of exercising the right to assistance in the event of the death of users under this law. The law contains the following types of assistance: compensation for funeral expenses belonging to the person who burys the beneficiary of the right under this law as determined in the amount of the funeral expenses of the deceased user's pension under the rules of PIO, except in the case of the holder of the Partizan Monument 1941, the Spanish fighter and the person awarded the Order of the Karadjordjev star with swords for which the fee is 300% of the base and death of the person awarded to the National Hero Order for whom the award is 500% of the basis. One-time assistance in the event of a user's death belongs to the heirs of the deceased, the deceased military invalid and the user of the monthly monetary income obtained on the basis of the recognised properties of a military invalid, the right to a family disability or the characteristics of a fighter. For the disabled, the right is recognised as double the amount of the personal disability that the disabled person has achieved, with the minimum amount of this aid being the amount of the third group of disabled persons with disabilities and for the deceased users of the monthly income, the right to be recognised in the double amount of the monthly monetary income that the beneficiary has achieved. The cost of transporting the deceased user belongs to a person who was costing the transport of a military disabled who died outside his home. The provision of Article 116 provides for the right of a fighter to wear a uniform of veterans whose composition, shape, colour, form and markings, as well as the way in which the minister responsible for combat issues is to be worn. The provisions of Articles 117 to 132 set out issues relating to the start of the exercise of rights, the exercise of rights, the change from the impact on the exercise of rights, the interference with the exercise and the termination of rights, and the maintenance of solutions from the current rules. The relevant newspapers in relation to the current solutions are: 1) the beginning of the exercise of rights; a basic solution has been retained to recognise the rights from the first day of the following month following the application, the rights exercised are recognised from the date on which the user is recognised by the final decision, i.e. from the first day of the following month from the date of recognition of the characteristics of the fighter, evidence and the foundation of the achievement, the monument. The use of the right by the provisions of Articles 119 to 122 is prescribed that the rights under this law are personal rights and cannot be transferred to other persons. Users residing abroad can achieve a personal disability, care allowance, orthopedic supplement, family disability, addition for parents of a fallen fighter, increased family disability, and not other rights prescribed by this law. Rights recognised under this law can be realised while the user has the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Article 191 stipulates that the beneficiary whose rights have been recognised under current rules without citizenship of the Republic of Serbia ceases to be granted rights unless he has acquired citizenship by the beginning of the application of this right. Article 122 provides that, during the time it is situated in the maintenance of the prison sentence, the recipient of the monthly income does not belong to this income, as well as to other rights derived from that right, unless it supports members of the family, in which case it shall be equal to 50% of the amount of monthly income up to six months from the date of entry into the period of application of the fine. It is also prescribed that users of the rights prescribed by this law report within 15 days any changes affecting the loss or reduction of rights recognised under this law. It has been specified that ever since the changes occurred, they have affected the recognised right. The provision of Articles 125 and 126 states that the rights under this law cannot be recognised, and if they are recognised, they cease to be persons who have fled to the enemy or escaped from the military or military duties, which they have co-operated with the enemy, only to be wounded for the avoidance of military duties, as well as persons convicted of certain crimes against the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, against humanity and other goods protected by international law. Also, a member of the family cannot be granted the rights prescribed by this law, based on that person, and if the same rights cease. Article 127 provides that the rights under this law cannot be exercised by a spouse, or by an outmarried partner, who, after the death of a person under whom the law ceases, has entered into a new marriage, or has established an extramarital union. If the spouse has already exercised those rights, the same shall cease, unless the rights recognised by the spouse's incompetence to work by the spouse, or an out-of-marriage partner cannot exercise his rights under this law, and if he has exercised those rights and has ceased to do so if he does not care about the child with whom he was to use these rights as an accomplice. A spouse, or out - of - wedlock partner, can restore this right if he continues to take care of the child during the time he uses the law. A parent cannot exercise his rights under this law, based on a child if he is completely deprived of parental rights by a judicial verdict. It is also prescribed that military and civil invalidity wars cannot, on the basis of the same damage to the organism, simultaneously apply the rights under this law and the right to compensation for physical damage under the rules on pension and disability insurance, and that the beneficiary of the right to care allowance under this law cannot at the same time use monetary compensation in the name of care on another legal basis. Article 130 provides that in order to prevent a person on the same factual basis from benefiting from rights in the field of martial law in the Republic of Serbia and in another country, a person entitled to a personal or family disability in another country cannot do so in the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what has gained citizenship in the Republic of Serbia or who has residence in the Republic of Serbia. In the previous period, a promotion of data on beneficiaries of rights in the field of martial law in the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska has been carried out, with around 200 users at the same time using rights in the field of martial law in both countries. In these cases, on the basis of this agreement concluded by the Ministers for the Protection of the Both States, recognised rights have been reserved by the state which has first recognised the rights. Also, rights under this law cannot even be exercised by a person who has waived the use of rights on the same basis in another country. The reasons for the termination of the right to family disability and the disability allowance have been laid down for the termination of the conditions concerning the establishment of a working relationship, the establishment of a profitable organisation or refusal of an offer of employment, as well as the conditions under which the right to a disability allowance can be restored. The provisions of Articles 134 to 140 stipulate that the procedure for the recognition of the right under this law shall be carried out at the request of the applicant. The legislation on the recognised property under this law and the driving licence shall be issued under official duty. Applications for the recognition of rights based on damage to the organism, caused in the middle of the wound, injury or injury, i.e. the death or death of a member of the family, may be lodged without a period of limitation, and the rights resulting from this damage to the organism resulting from the disease or from a family member who has died from the disease may also be lodged within the prescribed period. An application for recognition of the qualities of a wartime wartime invalid based on post-traumatic stress disorder may be submitted within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. The provisions of Articles 141 and 142 stipulate that the status of a fighter demonstrates on the basis of the original written evidence from the time of participation in the war, i.e. armed actions taken in peace on the basis of written data available by the competent authority, on the basis of a solution from the competent authority to which time was spent in the war was recognised in a special retirement internship or on the basis of a solution made to the procedure implemented under this law. The provisions of Articles 143 to 150 shall prescribe the types of means of proof to determine that the injury or injury has been sustained under the circumstances prescribed by this law or the type of medical documentation which determines the physical damage, it is prescribed that, in addition to other things, only the medical documentation of the treatment that stems from the termination of the circumstances under which it was obtained is relevant for the determination of the circumstances of the injury and injury. The fact is that the person from whom family members exercise the right under the provisions of this law died or died is determined only by written evidence, by means of the time that this person died, died or disappeared. The written means of proof shall not be regarded as a statement by a party or another person, as well as an entry in a military book which has been made without a call for an appropriate official record. The competent unit or institution of the military, i.e. the authority of the MUP, is obliged to issue confidence in the circumstances under which the case took place. Circumstances under which a civilian has suffered an injury or injury, i.e. loss of life, shall be determined on the basis of the records of the examination carried out and other acts by certain competent authorities of internal affairs, i.e. judicial authorities. The fact that a post-traumatic stress disorder occurred under the prescribed circumstances is determined on the basis of medical documentation that stems from the period until the entry into force of this law. The provisions of Articles 151 and 152 stipulate that for beneficiaries who are paid abroad, life evidence is obtained every six months and evidence that the child meets the requirements for schooling every year. Evidence for a user who is educated abroad that has completed a certain degree of school must be nostrified. For the purpose of exercising the right to a disability allowance, a profit margin certificate shall be submitted every month, a confirmation of the amount of pension achieved six months, and other evidence every year. The provisions of Articles 153 and 154 prescribed medical committees on the basis of whose findings and opinions determine disability, the existence of multiple damages corresponding to the disability of the first category, the likelihood of a change in the percentage of disability, the addition to care, the orthopedic supplement, the right to cash compensation for the purchase of a passenger motor vehicle, the fact that the disease, or death in a causal relationship with the conduct of a military service, the need of a military disabled for medical technical assistance, as well as other facts of the medical aspect, is essential for the decision on the rights under this law, both first-degree, second-stage and special medical commission. The composition of these commissions, the way they work, and the kind of medical documentation on which the commission gives its opinion. The provisions of Articles 155 to 157 prescribed that, upon request, the recognition of the right under this requirement, as well as the request for the establishment of the status of the fighter and for classification in the category of fighter submitted by the user resident in the Republic of Serbia, in the first instance, the municipal, or city administration according to the place of residence of the applicant, shall be resolved. The first-degree solution shall be subject to prior control by the authorised official of the first-degree body. That authority shall also be responsible for issuing user legitimacy under this law and the booklets for the exercise of the right to drive. In the first-degree procedure on the request of a resident in the Republic of Croatia, the city administration of Novi Sad is resolved, and at the request of a resident in the Republic of Romania, the municipal administration of Vršac, and at the request of persons from other countries, the town municipality of Stari Grad in Belgrade, unless the request of a resident abroad has already been decided by the second authority in the territory of the Republic of Serbia when it retains jurisdiction. So far, the responsibility for resolving persons residing abroad has been determined by a sublegal act. The first-degree bodies shall carry out those tasks as entrusted, and such a regulation of the resolution of the rights in the field of martial law shall be in line with the constitutional solutions and solutions laid down in the Law on Local Self-Government under which the Republic regulations are exercised by the Republic's authorities of the administration, and the municipality may be entrusted with the conduct of those tasks in accordance with the law. The first-degree solution shall be subject to prior control by the authorised official of the first-degree body. Article 158 stipulates that the rights under this law in the second degree are resolved by the competent ministry, and the territory of the AP Vojvodina and the territory of the city of Belgrade are the relevant authorities of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. the city of Belgrade. The provisions of Articles 159 to 166 shall lay down the rights of which the audit must be carried out by the competent second-degree authority. If an appeal in the review of the appeal is made against the solution made in the first instance, it shall be resolved by the same solution. At the request of the second-degree authority, the first-degree body is required to submit a resolution for review within 15 days. If the audit is not carried out within three months of the expiry of the period of appeal or within three months of the delivery of the findings and opinions given by the second-degree medical committee on the basis of the instructions for the specialist examination of the person concerned, the audit shall be deemed to have been carried out and agreed to the solution. In the review process, it is also mandatory to obtain findings and opinions from the second-degree medical commission, when it comes to determining whether the disease is in a causal relationship with the conduct of the military service and the percentage of disability with the degree of orthopedic supplement, the degree of care allowance, damage to the organism under which the right to cash compensation for the purchase of a passenger motor vehicle is recognised. The full incompetence for work shall be determined by competent medical committees under the rules of pension and disability insurance. Article 167 stipulates that an administrative dispute can be initiated against the final solution made by appeal, as well as against the resolution made in the audit. Articles 168 to 172 prescribed the procedure by changes from the influence on recognised rights and decision-making according to these changes. The basic solution is that the procedure for decision-making on changes affecting the reduction of the scope or termination of the rights recognised under this law is initiated by official duty, and the changes affecting the increase in the volume of recognised rights are initiated at the request of the users. The user is obliged to participate actively in those procedures and, in accordance with Article 170, the first-degree body shall, under its official duty, carry out the procedure for the adoption of a new rule of law which is provisionally recognised under this law. If a user who has been temporarily granted the right to make it impossible for the medical board to reach the opinion at the end of the temporary period and the procedure for the recognition of the right to be suspended, and the same will be recognised from the first day of the following month from the date of the application of the law. The provisions of Articles 173 and 174 are laid down by the following procedures – the process of increasing the percentage of disability if, in the case of a disabled military person or a civilian with disabilities, changes arise from the impact of increasing the percentage of disability recognised by the final solution, the procedure for re-recognising the properties required by the request for the percentage of disability lodged by a person who has ceased to be disabled due to a reduction in the percentage of temporarily recognised disability and below the minimum percentage, the procedure required by a person who has previously submitted an application for recognition of that property on the basis of an early injury or injury caused by an insufficient percentage of disability. The law stipulates that the procedure for the exercise of rights under this law does not pay fees and that the costs resulting from the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia to exercise rights under this law are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The provisions of Articles 177 and 178 have prescribed the authority of the competent ministry to keep a single record of the users of the rights under this law, the rights achieved, the members of the household, the income of the users and members of their household. In accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data, personal data on users to be kept in the register are taxed. The record is kept through a single information system. A unique information system will also be the basis for payment of rights. The direct entry of the data into the records shall be carried out by the first-degree authority and shall be responsible for their accuracy. Data processing is necessary in order to enforce the law of the prescribed powers, and in accordance with the regulation governing the protection of personal data. In view of the need for specific marginalised groups to provide special protection and the necessary data to be collected for policy-making, it is necessary to collect data from categories of specific identity data. The provisions of Articles 179 and 181 shall stipulate that the payment of monthly cash receipts shall be made on the basis of the data entered in the single data record. The cashier is a first-degree organ. The user to whom the payment was made shall be obliged to make a refund of the cash amounts achieved unless he has had the right. The first instance of the solution determines the unfounded amount received, the period in which the same outcome is achieved and the way in which the unfounded income is recovered. Money receipts under this law, which are due monthly, become obsolete in accordance with the rules on the limitations of the claim. If the user does not agree to return the amount wrongly received, the refund may take place in a court proceedings. The provisions of Articles 183 and 184 also stipulated the power of the Ministry of Defence to supervise the work of first-degree authorities entrusted with the affairs of the state administration in this area in accordance with the law governing the state administration. The surveillance carried out shall be drawn up a record to be sent to the first-degree body, on the basis of which the ministry shall adopt a solution imposing measures on the first-degree body to remove irregularities under which the body is obliged to act. An appeal to the Government may be made against that solution. The competent ministry has the authority to give the authorities entrusted with the enforcement of this law mandatory instructions for the execution of these tasks. The provisions of Articles 185 to 188 stipulate that for the sake of improving the field of martial law, fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars and achieving co-operation with related, national and international organisations, associations and alliances of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil war, and users of the family invalidity and guardian of the traditions of Serbia's Liberation Wars can be established in accordance with the law governing associations. Associations that are of particular social importance to improve the area of martial law and the protection of civil persons with disabilities and to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars determines the government on a proposal from the minister in charge of martial law. Funds for the achievement of the programmes and objectives of these alliances and associations shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and shall be implemented in accordance with the regulations governing associations. Article 189 provides for infringements in the amount of fines for infringements committed which may punish a responsible person or executioner of a business in a competent authority, and in cases where an act or an offence is committed in breach of the provisions of a law which is relevant from the point of view of ensuring material and procedural assumptions for the legal exercise of rights in this area. The transitional and final provisions shall contain solutions governing the transition to the application of the new law in relation to the laws in force until its entry into force. Starting with changes in matters of status, in the case of individual rights and in the case of provisions in the procedure, most of these solutions contain provisions on the conduct of competent authorities under official duty in order to more effectively implement the provisions of this law. A new basic solution has been defined that rights will be recognised until the entry into force of this law by the rules which cease to apply under which it is not prescribed by this law to retain or enforce under conditions and in scope and in such a way as to be established by this law unless otherwise prescribed by this law. It is prescribed that users whose rights have been recognised without citizenship of the Republic of Serbia cease to be recognised on the date of entry into force of this law, unless they have acquired citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, except for a wartime military invalid who has acquired the right until the day of entry into force of this law. Article 192 states that a spouse of a combatant who died in armed actions after 27 April 1992, who, as a co- subject to child, was granted the right to a family disability, by the regulations which ceased to apply, ceased to exist when and because he had no years to live in order to recognise his right as an independent user, can regain his right to a family invalid after fulfilling the requirements of years of life. The procedure and conditions for the translation of the properties of a peacetime military invalid as a civilian disabled war subject to recognition as a civilian by virtue of the physical damage suffered by an employee or as an employee of a diplomatic or consular representative of the Republic of Serbia or on his way to that representation in connection with his official duties under the duty of the Republic of Serbia have been prescribed. It is prescribed that a request for the exercise of this right to a family invalid after a dead civilian wartime invalid may be filed within one year of the day of the death of a civilian disabled war. Article 195 prescribed a procedure for recognising an increase in the amount of personal disability with 25% of the underlying disability in which there are more damages corresponding to the disability of the first group. It is prescribed that the right to monthly income during the unemployment of wartime wartime wartime disableds from the fifth to tenth groups, under the Law on the right to monthly monetary income during the unemployment of wartime wartime people from the fifth to the tenth armed group since 17 August 1990, will be granted as the right to a disabled wartime invalidity allowance. The law is set at 63% of the base. It is prescribed that the bearers of the Partizan Monument 1941, NOB fighters, Spanish National Liberation and Revolutionary War from 1936 to 1939, persons decorated by the Order of the People's Hero, the Order of the Karadjordjev Star with swords or the Golden Medal of Obelić, as well as members of their families, retain recognised rights under the rules that cease to apply at the beginning of the application of this law. Tax rights are listed, the way they continue to be realised, the way in which the amount of the right and the amount of those rights is calculated. Tax rights are recognised under the rules which cease to apply at the beginning of the entry into force of this law and the right to be translated and recognised in accordance with this law as regards the name of the right, the prescribed basis for determining the amount of the right, the percentage amounts of the right of the basis and the method of harmonisation. Time limits have been set to implement the process of that translation, with the provision that the rights to the solutions adopted in the translation procedure have been recognised from the beginning of the application of this law. Article 200 provides that the procedures governed by the requirements for the recognition of rights under the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families and the Regulation on how to exercise the rights of members of the Yugoslav Army in the country in the field of martial law which are not resolved until the date of application of this law, will be resolved in a manner, in accordance with the procedure and in the amounts prescribed analogous rights in Articles 197, 198 and 199. Article 201 has prescribed a procedure concerning the rights recognised under the rules in the field of martial law and the protection of civilian disabled wars of the AP Vojvodina and the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. In fact, these rules have ceased to apply in accordance with the provisions of Article 3(1) and Article 5(1). Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 20/93, and the rights recognised under these regulations continue to be implemented by the regulations under which they are recognised until the adoption of a republican law governing their further implementation. According to the above, the payment of those rights shall cease on the expiry of the month in which this law entered into force, with which the date ceases and the validity of the solutions which these rights have been recognised and which do not require a special solution. The exercise of these rights for a period of time since the application of this law has been governed by Articles 198 and 199, in accordance with which it will be translated into the relevant rights prescribed by this law. Article 202 provides the legal basis for the transfer of rights to the rights of the competent authorities of other republics of former SFRY during the existence of the SFRY. This provided that they have citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, residences on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that they are paid those rights on the day of entry into force of this law. It is the users of the rights in the field of martial law under the rules of former SFRY who have avoided war on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and their payment of rights has been established as a form of humanitarian aid. The legal basis is that military people with disabilities and users of family disability, recognised in Republika Srpska, who have been taken over into a system of martial law protection of the Republic of Serbia and who, under the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, have been established the payment of rights in the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of specifically concluded protocols on the co-operation of the competent authorities of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, translate those rights and recognise them under conditions, in the scope and manner laid down by this law. It is the following protocols: the Protocol on the co-operation of the Federal Ministry of Health and Social Policy of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Ministry of Affairs of the Fighters, Victims of the War and War of Republika Srpska in the area of martial protection signed in Banja Luka on 26 June 2000; the Protocol on the Co-operation of the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Labour and the Bora-Native Protection of Republika Srpska signed in Belgrade on 27 November 2003, supplemented on 18 November 2005 and 29 November 2006. Article 204 provides the legal basis for civil invalid war, i.e. the beneficiary of the right to monthly monetary income, on the basis of a civil victim of war or of a dead civilian war where physical damage, or death or occurrence, has arisen outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia and whose rights are recognised under the rules which cease to apply in the beginning of this law, may continue to apply recognised rights in the scope and subject to the conditions laid down by this law. The issue has been settled to achieve orthopedic and other medical technical assistance, according to Article 63 of this Law. In accordance with the provisions of this Regulation, military disability is essentially entitled to medical technical assistance in accordance with health regulations. However, for damage to the organism, under which the military disabled is recognised as a property, the military disability has the right to prosthetics for the upper and lower extremities, orthosis, wheelchairs in a higher standard than those prescribed in the field of health, i.e. in the scope of both the standard and the content prescribed by the competent minister for martial law. The application for the recognition of orthopaedic, i.e. medical and technical assistance submitted until the application of this law has been put into effect, in accordance with the rules which cease to apply in the beginning of the application of this law, and which are not prescribed by this law, or by a sublegal act adopted under this law, will be rejected, and the rights to such aids, which have been recognised until the date of application of this law, shall expire within the time limit of their duration. Article 206 provides that the start of a seven-year period for the re-recognition of the right to cash compensation for the purchase of a passenger motor vehicle is due. This similar new solution to this right to Article 89 of this Act, under which, instead of the right to a passenger motor vehicle, the right to cash compensation for the purchase of a passenger motor vehicle, is prescribed that the request for payment of rights in the Republic of Serbia will be denied, on the basis of a solution made by the competent authority in the Republic of Serbia, and payment on the date of entry into force of this law was made not by the Republic of Serbia, but by some of the other former republics of the SFRY, regardless of its current nationality and residence. Also, a request will be rejected for the establishment of a payment of the right in the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a solution from the other republic of the SFRY, i.e. the SRJ, or the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. It is prescribed that users whose rights have been recognised, as well as persons unable to comply with the rules which cease to apply on the day of application of this law, shall be deemed incompetent to work and within the meaning of this law. Article 209 stipulates that the payment of the right under this law will also be effected after the application of this law by the rules which cease to apply at the beginning of the application of this law, until the conditions for this payment to be established through a unique record of the users of the rights in the field of martial law, and in accordance with Article 178 of this Act. Rules for the implementation of this law will be passed until the application of this law is started until the current sublegal acts are applied. Rules have been laid down which cease to be valid at the beginning of the application of this law. All now in force regulations in the field of combat-inhabitation protection and protection of civilian disabled wars. The provision of Article 2012 requires that this law enters into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication in the ‘Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ and will apply from 1 January 2021. The public debate on the draft law was held between 13 May 2019 and 3 June 2019. The draft law was set up on the website of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and on the Portal of e-Government with the invitation of all interested persons to submit their proposals, suggestions, initiatives and comments within the specified deadline. The hearings on the draft law were held under the public debate programme. So far, public debates have not been held in so many cities. Namely, public debates took place in 13 cities: Vranja, Leskovac, Kragujevac, Užica, Sjenica, Kraljena, Sombora, Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Zajecar, Belgrade and Nis. Due to great interest in the draft law, the stands were further maintained in Rum. Many now applicable regulations governing the area of martial law and the protection of civil persons with disabilities are presented in the stands, explaining the need to codify these regulations, as well as to improve certain legal solutions, to bring them into line with applicable regulations in other areas. The draft law and attitudes established by the working group were also presented. In all, about 1,600 participants were present in all the stands. Among the participants in the public debate were representatives of the regional, urban and municipal authorities responsible for martial law, representatives of the association of fighters, military disabled, civilian disabled wars and members of their families and others interested. The participants showed great interest in participating in the public debate. During participation in the stands, 207 debaters were orally presented by their opinions, objections, proposals and suggestions on the draft law. It also provided 103 submissions in the form of written material. During the public debate at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, a large number of submissions with numerous objections and suggestions were received through regular and e-mail. After the public hearing was concluded, all objections, proposals and suggestions were discussed in the framework of the work group, after which the final positions entered into the text of the draft law were adopted. I note that members of all interested associations and associations who showed their interest in the work group were involved in the work. This law normably regulates a very important area, a complicated and sensitive area of martial law in a unique way for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. By adopting this law, we will create an initial basis for further analysis and serious work to improve the overall position of ours, freely I can say, the best part of the population, those who have fought for our country, our fighters and their families. This government and some future ones, unlike those from 2000 to 2012, will use a proactive approach to monitor the needs of this category of users and, in line with the country's economic capabilities, will propose measures to improve their position. Positive results in the country's development from the previous period have made it possible to extend the scope of rights and their heights for fighters and their families. If this trend continues, as the government plans, there is no reason to suspect that they will only improve their overall position in the coming years. For such a thing, we have a foothold in the personal engagement of President Alexander Vukic himself in the fact that today we are marking all the important dates of our bright past. In the end, I would like to thank all the associations, all the alliances, all those who took part in the drafting of this law, for the countless meetings we had together, in their participation in the public debates that we all held together. For all of this, for these reasons, I propose to the National Assembly that in the day of voting you adopt this law, because it represents a significant shift in regulation of all issues in the field of martial law and I am undermining again – no law has been abolished, but we have extended their rights by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72259	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do you have any more? Go on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72260	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on the validation of the Framework Military Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in Belgrade on 7 October 2019. The agreement contains areas of co-operation, as well as the principles on which it will be implemented. The provision of this Agreement shall be determined by the authorities responsible for its implementation and shall provide for a way to protect classified information, regulate the resolution of legal issues and compensation requirements. It also contains financial provisions governing the provision of health services, provisions governing the procedure of customs and passport procedures. The agreement provides for ways in which any disputes, changes and additions will be resolved, the way it enters into force, the period of validity and the termination of application, and the entry into force of the agreement in question also provides for an end to the importance of the agreement between the Union of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on military and military-technical co-operation signed on 23 July 2004. The Framework Military Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, which is established, proposes this law, sets out the basic objectives and principles on which military co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, and to contribute to the development of comprehensive bilateral relations between the two countries. I remind you of the traditional good political relations between the two countries. Serbia and Turkey are historically connected, and the two peoples adorn good and friendly relations based on understanding and mutual respect. Military and defence co-operation with the Republic of Turkey may be assessed as good with the possibility of further intensification and improvement, and one general contract in accordance with the national regulations of the Contracting Parties and in accordance with generally accepted international law standards is necessary in order to achieve those objectives. Also, for these reasons, and in order to develop further improvement of bilateral co-operation with the Republic of Turkey, I propose that the National Assembly vote in the day of voting by law confirming a framework military agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. You also have before you a bill confirming the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India, signed in Belgrade on 7 November 2019. I remind you of the traditional good political relations between the two countries. India and Serbia are historically connected, and the two peoples adorn good and friendly relations based on understanding and mutual respect. We owe the Republic of India the gratitude for the principled support it provides for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, as well as our efforts to resolve all outstanding issues in KIM through peaceful dialogue of stakeholders. The entry into force of the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of defence creates a legal basis for the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence, as well as other forms of co-operation in the area of defence for which the parties are interested. The Agreement contains areas and forms of co-operation, provides for the possibility of developing co-operation in the area of common interest through the conclusion of specific protocols and additional agreements in accordance with the agreement in question, the provisions on the protection of classified information and the costs incurred during its implementation, the possibility of establishing a joint defence committee and medical support. The Agreement provides for ways to resolve any disputes, changes and additions, i.e. how it enters into force, period of validity and cancellation. A defence co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India, whose confirmation is proposed by this law, sets out the basic objectives and principles on which co-operation will be based in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India, in order to contribute to the development of the overall, overall bilateral relations of the two countries, as well as in peace and security in the world. Also, the primary objective of the proposed law is to establish a legal framework that would allow the parties and their competent authorities to co-operate in defence, defence and security issues, i.e. policy, military-economic and scientific technical cooperation, military-intelligence co-operation, military education and training, military medicine and veterinary services, as well as other segments of common interest. Co-operation in defence with the Republic of India can be assessed as good with the possibility of further intensifying and improving, and in order to achieve those areas and forms of co-operation, it is necessary to conclude a general defence co-operation agreement, which would legally regulate those issues in accordance with the Vienna Treaty Law Convention and the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for these reasons, and in order to further improve bilateral co-operation with the Republic of India, I propose that the National Assembly vote a law confirming the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72261	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we continue to work, I'd like to agree to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform the People’s MPs that today the National Assembly will work even after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I don't know if I'd get a new chance to do that. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72262	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, there is today a bill on gambling. The adoption of a new law in the field of gambling increases the level of social responsibility of gambling directors, creating the necessary conditions for the introduction of a more advanced system of surveillance, i.e. control of traffic achieved. This directly creates conditions for reducing the grey economy, for more efficient collection of budget revenues, but also improves the legal framework for combating money laundering and terrorist financing, in line with European standards. You also have before you the proposal for a law confirming the Protocol under the Convention on the Agreement for International Transport of Goods by Road, and today you are also facing the proposal for a law on the approval of the Loan Treaty (A programme for Climate Change Resistance and Irrigation in Serbia - Phase I), between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is also on the agenda that the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences. Furthermore, the proposal for a law on the validation of an agreement on defence co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India, the proposal for a law on the validation of a protocol on the establishment of a border point between the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro and BiH, the proposal for a law on the validation of a framework military agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, the Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement on Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on Industry and Technology, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on the exercise of paid activity by certain members of the family, members of the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Cooperation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia, the proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic and the Republic of Serbia's and the Republic of Serbia's, on the Republic of Serbia's, the Republic of Serbia's, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofthe The following laws are before you today: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Control and Marking of cases of precious metals, with annexes I and II, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the other Parties to the Initiative for Prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the Southeast European region on arrangements with the host country on the Secretariat of the Initiative for Prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the region of Southeast Europe. Furthermore, a bill confirming the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. You are facing today a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on co-operation in the area of sustainable management of cross-border waters, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Nicaragua on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports, a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the area of water, a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on co-operation in the area of sustainable management of cross-border waters and plums of common interest. On the agenda today is also the proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on co-operation on construction, management, maintenance, reconstruction and reconstruction of pipelines, for transit of natural gas crossing the state border, a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection, a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Grenada on Economic Co-operation, a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on mutual recognition of qualified services from trust provided in the Republic of Serbia and the certification services for electronic transactions provided in Montenegro, a draft law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Morocco on Trade and Economic Cooperation of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. 3 Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreements in the area of infrastructure, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. I hope that these days we will have a constructive and reasoned debate and I invite you to support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72263	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? National MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72264	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, on the board held yesterday, in addition to the draft law on gambling, we also had a proposal to confirm the agreement concerning the climate change and irrigation programme in Serbia and to confirm the Convention on Child Support and Other Family Members. What I took the word for today is that, you may have forgotten, but here we also commend the Minister of Finance, who is indeed on the initiative of a national organisation that includes all Serbian people with disabilities, i.e. 15 alliances and over 500 organisations, indeed understood that this law relating to gambling, which actually increased revenues in the budget, by increasing certain fees and fees, is precisely defined for the means to go for the needs of certain categories of people with disabilities in Serbia. You also received representatives from these organisations and proposed that this amendment be accepted by the Government, so that we on the committee yesterday discussed this bill with the amendments adopted and the Committee on Budgets, Finance and the control of the spending of public funds adopted this amendment. I must say that the day before we had the Committee, I had the opportunity to receive representatives of the national organisation, Ivanko Jovanovic, Mrs Gordan Rajkov, who is both former MP and Michael Pajevic. Indeed, in this direct conversation with them, I hear that they have indeed addressed the institutions that have helped specifically amend the office and that the Ministry of Finance has included the proposal and given it to the government, which the government has adopted. The essence of that amendment, and we'll talk about it when they're amended, is that 40% of exactly the financial resources that come into the gambling budget go to these categories. You've given it so far, however, somehow they're afraid, if certain ministers change or change the situation, that the budget has to be taxed, to secure and create certain financial security somewhere, because they claim that over 70% of people with disabilities live very hard, almost on the edge of economic dependence. This is what they believe, that they are threatened, over 800,000 people who are covered by these organisations, and that the amendment itself refers to the budget intended to be paid for these purposes, will be distributed by 19% to finance the Red Cross, then to finance organisations of persons with disabilities, whose aim is to improve the social, economic and social situation of these persons, then to finance social protection institutions, local self-government, sports and youth, and then remains 5% for the position of 25.point 3. that is the division of the Ministry of Health, the treatment of rare diseases that we are constantly talking about, from which items are very important that there are means to help the continued treatment of diseases in children treated abroad. I think it's of great importance that you did this job that you understood the need for this target group to define the means of purpose somewhere in this bill. That is why we think it is very good to adopt this law on gambling in this part when it comes to helping these categories of citizens, i.e. Serbian citizens. On the Committee, we have had the opportunity to really hear how important these conventions are, or projects that you are working with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, especially when climate change is at stake, and here we have heard that indeed now the East of Serbia will receive considerable funds in terms of these projects relating to governance, i.e. protection, especially as there are a large number of grants, 1.2m euros of 15m euros, which will concern flood protection, i.e. climate change itself, which is very important. Today, citizens of eastern Serbia should hear that indeed all parts of Serbia are equally represented when it comes to projects financed by the finance ministry. I think that in the voting day we really have reason to support these bill proposals in the best possible way, because we see that many of the injustices in the past will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72265	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72266	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management in my opinion, the most important Committee of the National Assembly, because when the food disappears, when the water disappears, you can only appreciate those who produce food and those who guard our waters for drinking. We've been reviewing five laws and the board has accepted all five. Just for the sake of the viewers and fellow MPs who are not members of the Committee to list them. We have two agreements with Turkey. One's about the vet. It's very important to me, given that they appear in the wind on our territory of a new disease that once did not exist in our territories. We had a disease called "slut skin". It's a disease that's mostly previously burdened African countries and countries that are lower than we are. These diseases can cause us great economic damage, and we were fortunate to stop this disease. Even Europe, which had no experience with this type of disease, then did not know what to recommend. However, I must admit that there are experts with us who understand and diseases that once did not exist in our territory, and that is why we have successfully contained this disease, not that we have protected ourselves from the great economic damages that were 10, 15 times greater in Bulgaria, Greece and Macedonia than in our country, but we have stopped this disease for both Croatia and other parts of the European Union. We stopped her somewhere on the level, at the border somewhere, so she never showed up again. It is now current, which is not important for Turkey, "African swine fever", which was also not present in these territories. Despite two years of reluctance, however, it appeared peripherally little in Serbia. There may be other diseases, so I say that because of food safety, very important co-operation in the veterinary field, and also in the area of phytosanitary protection. We have a law with Azerbaijan that talks about plant quarantine, and that's also important because of potential plant diseases that can occur in the trade and transport of plant products between us and Azerbaijan. Plant production is also important. There are different kinds of diseases again, so that co-operation is very important. It is also significant because of the potential cultivation of certain plants and so on, that it can be co-operated between our Plant Protection Authority and their organs. We have three water agreements. One is with Turkey, but sustainable governance with Romania and Hungary is particularly important. This is very important because it is about the Danube and the plum that is with the Danube and I believe that we have experience from 2014, that we know why Turkey also needs to share knowledge, experts and so on, why it is necessary to co-operate with Hungary and Romania, especially because of Vojvodina and possible damages that can occur if it is not managed in a sustainable manner. Also, on the Danube at this time, we are trying to establish water systems throughout Serbia, but this co-operation with Romania and Hungary is particularly important for Vojvodina. I have to say right away that we need to build the bay systems as soon as possible, expose them, because we won't be able to use the water as much as we want. There are some international agreements, there are quotas as much water as can be exhausted from the Danube, and it is stupid that between the Danube and Sava, Tisa, Tamis and so on, Vojvodina has very few surfaces that are irrigated, and yet in order to water them and to control droughts and floods, it is necessary to manage the waters in a sustainable way. What surprised me was that certain opposition MPs, regardless of what was debated about the protection of plants, did not come to the board and did not pay attention to such important topics, not only to the waters, but to the protection of plants, because at the meetings of the National Assembly where direct transfers, full of the mouth of plants, GMOs, etc., and the replacement was a surprise that opposition MPs, who allegedly advocated plant health, did not appear at the board's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72267	Thank you. The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, esteemed citizens, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy discussed seven agreements that are being discussed today and that you heard something from the promoter and decided at its session unanimously to support their ratification. It's about the following agreements. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica. It is proposed to strengthen mutual bilateral economic relations, which confirms the two countries' readiness to establish co-operation in the field of tourism, as well as improve relations in the areas of economy, culture and create conditions for their further development. Specific forms of co-operation of interest and importance are indicated for improving bilateral tourism transport by promoting co-operation between relevant entities and organisations operating in the field of tourism, as well as international tourism organisations. The next agreement is between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on trade and economic co-operation. It reflects the intentions of the signatories of the agreement to institutionalise and develop the area of trade and economic co-operation between the two countries, as well as to intensify and diversify their trade on the principles of equality of common interest and international law. Regulation of bilateral economic co-operation between the two countries creates conditions for its improvement on long-term grounds, as well as an increase in investment flows between the two countries. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on mutual recognition of qualified trust services, which are provided in both countries' territories, actually implies that information communication technologies are one of the drivers of global economic development, and in this sense goes towards recognising qualified services from the trust that contributes to the elimination of barriers to business, enabling the use and the same legal fact of qualified services from trust, i.e. qualified certification services for electronic transactions in both countries, as well as mutual recognition of qualified means for the creation of electronic signature, qualified electronic seal and qualified electronic time stamps. Confirmation of the Agreement will have an impact on economic operators in both countries that will achieve greater efficiency in mutual business co-operation, by switching to electronic business than during classical business. This mutual recognition also means that, apart from business entities, both countries' citizens will be able to use online services from another country. Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Grenada on Economic Co-operation stems from the intention of the signatories of the agreement to institutionalise and develop the area of trade and economic co-operation between the two countries, as well as to intensify and diversify their trade between them also on the principles of equality, common interest and international law. In particular, I would like to highlight the confirmation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on co-operation in the construction and management, maintenance, reconstruction and rehabilitation of natural gas pipelines crossing the state border. The energy development strategy, among other things, has established the strategic objectives of the Republic of Serbia in the natural gas area, which is to ensure safe supply of the domestic natural gas market, the establishment of a domestic and regional natural gas market and diversification of sources and natural gas supply routes. The natural gas consumption project has a long-term trend of growth, and the pipeline system of the Republic of Serbia has only two points of integration with other countries' systems, an entry point at the border with Hungary and an exit point on the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, making the whole system sensitive. Construction of Bulgaria's master gas pipeline and Hungary's borders would provide a new natural gas supply route, as well as an interconnection with Bulgaria and Hungary. Realisation of this project will contribute to achieving the strategic goals of the Republic of Serbia in the natural gas area and will significantly affect security of supply and increase energy security. It will also enable more significant use of natural gas, as well as its use for combined heat and electricity production and use in the transport sector, etc. compressed natural gas. The Serbian and Hungarian sides agreed to take measures to support the implementation of the project, the co-ordination points of the end of the pipeline on both sides, as well as the legal position of the persons performing the tasks stemming from the implementation of the agreement. Further confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Industry and Technology stems from the intention of signatories to institutionalise and develop an area of industrial and technological co-operation between the two countries, with a view to further economic and economic strengthening and development. This opens up the possibility of additional new investments, i.e. the creation of new jobs, on the one hand, and the reduction of the unemployment rate on the other hand, and the creation of these new jobs, plant plants, businesses and tax settlements result in additional budgeting. Finally, the confirmation of the Convention on the Control and Marking of cases of precious metals, with annexes 1 and 2, implies that in order to facilitate cross-border traffic from precious metals, to ensure the control of the share of precious metals, the platinum, gold, paladium and silver in items of precious metal and also to ensure the protection of consumer interests conditioned by the specific nature of these items in Vienna, seven European states signed the Convention on the Control and Marking of cases of precious metals, to which 20 countries joined today. (President: I thank you. ) Our country in the Convention has application status and the Member States of the Convention shall use one mark guaranteeing the quality of precious metals and which shall be exchanged between the Member States of the Convention without further review of the trade marks and costs, and in that case, for our country, in full accession to this membership, would mean and contribute to an additional reduction in the costs of imports of the items marked by this trade mark.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72269	Thank you. I ask, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, lovely Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72270	Thank you, Chairman. In my opening part of the speech, of course, I would like to commend that the Government has submitted an amendment correcting this failure, which is that there is no provision in the new bill regarding the fact that 40% of the income, the law on gambling, goes to sensitive social groups, above all, to the organisations of persons with disabilities. Although it didn't bother me when I saw it wasn't there, because I assumed that it would definitely continue to fund those programs, and I appreciate that it was probably a technical mistake. What worries me more is what effect on the lives of people and people with disabilities and people with rare diseases have programs that are financed from the funds collected from gambling. What am I saying that for? I'm talking because it's really huge amounts of money that the state gives to the organizations of people with disabilities. However, the quality of these programmes and the measurement of the effects they have on the lives of ordinary people with disabilities are very questionable. In fact, I can hardly say for sure that the greatest effect is on those who run these organizations, which is a small number of people, and what is rarely the case, it happens that those who run those organisations are often not people with disabilities. I really think this country is too rich, because huge money is being thrown into a well, which is not coming back to us and is not coming back through socially useful citizens. Yesterday I went to the Ministry of Labour site to see, and here I must commend the minister for being transparently announced how much money the organization gets, from the Ministry of Labour I speak only, and later I will talk about other ministries. What my friends from Montenegro would say, she had a drop to kill me when I saw what money it was. You know, let's just say, I'm going to name a national organisation of multiple sclerosis that gets, now I'm going to tell you exactly, 11 million got in 2019, a society of multiple sclerosis of the Vojvodina six million. Then you have local organizations where one in Backo Topoli got 220 grand, in Sombor 450 grand, etc. On the other hand, you have an organization of MS platforms, which was registered two years ago, zero dinars have been received, and the only ones have managed to raise so much to a recognizable level and give importance to the topic that sufferers of multiple sclerosis do not have adequate therapy. They also managed to reach Prime Minister Ana Brnabic to meet, point to this problem, to the health minister. So, an organisation that has zero dinars in its budget for two years has done much more to identify this problem than all these national, regional and local organisations. Then we have a Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Serbs, which in 2019 won 26 million dinars. Do you know it's almost 250 thousand euros? In doing so, it is not money provided for interpreters who will translate deaf people's content from television, emergency situations. We have this coronary virus, deaf people in Serbia, and they don't know it exists and it's spreading at lightning speed, because they can't take that information except for two or three minutes of news on RTS. These are the funds for some courses in Vranjska Banja for seven days. You in seven days or a man who knows the Serbian language, and illiterate is enough or does not know the spelling you cannot train, let alone someone who does not know the sign language to learn in seven days. We also have a national organization that you mentioned, which in its composition has all these alliances. So, in addition to national funding, each alliance receives individual funds and each city organization receives individual funds. All these organizations have employees in their organizations who receive salaries from these funds. We all pay taxes on these budgets to these organizations. My question is, what about me, and is everything okay with me when I decided to be a national MP and I have to report to the Anti-Corruption Agency for 70,000 dinars and pay 30,000 dinars to correct the wrong Drina and fight for the rights of persons with disabilities, and I have to report to the Anti-Corruption Agency, all the proceeds in the banks, to give blood from my fingers to prove that my close relatives are not some kind of officials or those, because my close relatives also have to give all that information to the bank, and the people who run these organizations are not subject to any control of the Anti-Corruption Agency? It is no secret that some of these officials have a monthly salary as governor of the National Bank, and many have higher incomes than ministers in the Serbian government. Let me tell you, this is one competition for regular programming activities. The labour ministry also has a constantly open competition where funds are allocated and where these organisations also apply for additional funds. There are the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Tourism, the Department of Social Protection, local self-government, all of them are investigating competitions, the Department of Combat and Disabilities Protection, where again these organisations apply for funding. Not to mention the European Union projects and projects of international organisations, which I am not interested in in this regard, because they are not budgetary resources. My question also for the Minister of Labour - which is why when you give funds to remove architectural barriers to NGOs that then remove architectural barriers in the institutions of this country, the type of social work centres, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the PIO Fund, etc. Why don't you give these branches directly money to remove barriers to what they commit and the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Planning and Construction. What is the need for intermediaries in this business? I also call on the Minister of Finance to go to the Minister of Labour and see how the reports on the implemented projects of these organisations look, to ask the end-users how much this has effect on the everyday lives of people with disabilities. So if we're really passing laws that need to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, and if we as public officials, we're subject to serious control and I have nothing against it. I think that people who work in organisations and who use budget funds, or officials in those organisations, should also be subject to the same control. So, not to tell you further individual alliances. Of course, there are organizations that do their job well, and you will recognize them by getting at least the funds and my question is, that is, I would like to commend the organizations that have managed to reach the chairman of the Finance Committee and the finance minister and to instruct the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister to get this back into the law. I also ask, why were they not so loud when the Financial Support Act was passed to families with children where children with disabilities were denied, or they were denied the right to choose whether to receive compensation on the basis of profit or for the grief of children and for the help of children? Why don't they criticise the disastrous situation in institutions where people with disabilities live? Of course, around this topic they have united very nicely and have been very loudly able to advocate this back into the law. Like I said, I don't think it's back to law so it doesn't go on funding, but I'm seriously worried about the effect of these programs. Look, 26 million, you can make three schools that are accessible to all children with disabilities for example, not to mention that we need a sign language study institute, that we need a sign language department, that we need a larger number of sign language interpreters. We don't have it all, people play sign language schools and spend 26 million dinars. People there have contracts on work and what's the biggest problem, which many of these organizations lead under one uneducated people, under the number of two people who have been there for decades on these functions and their role is actually to choose members, to keep them calm. I see it as a para-state organization, not at all protecting the interest of people with disabilities, but as well as the numerous unions we have. You know, we're protecting employees, but we're talking to employers about how we're actually going to best protect ourselves, and to tell our employees that, well, we couldn't do any of that. I think the situation, when it comes to people with disabilities in Serbia, is very bad, but it thinks that the state singles out huge money that points to the wrong side and spends in the wrong way and I think that money can be far better and better quality to exploit and invest in long-term projects that will have a long-term effect on the lives of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72271	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72272	Gentlemen Ministers, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the Law on Fighters of War Disabilities, the families of the dead fighters. We've waited a long time for this law, 28 years. It's a good thing this law came to the Assembly. If this were just a law on disabled people, war people and families of killed fighters, I would, and certainly all radicals, vote for him with both hands because through this law, when it comes to disabled people and families of dead fighters, all the questions that we've been asking for years back as problems, even some things have been done and more than that. However, we have one fundamental remark. We believe that this law should not have allowed civilian disabled war and civilian war victims to be found, they already have their own law, because fighters, people with disabilities, families of fallen fighters are a national category. They exercise their rights as a national recognition. Civilians of war and civil victims of war are a social category and they exercise their rights depending on the economic possibilities of the state. Looking at the rights they have achieved, it can be said that Serbia is a very rich country. How much Natasa Kandic affected it because she criticised the draft law before, and is likely to criticise this one, because she is never satisfied with that amount of rights towards civilian war people and civil war victims and always says that war people with disabilities have too many rights. So that's our point, and we don't think it should have been solved that way. The laws so far have always mentioned fighters, but they were only in the title and no other member. This is the first law in which fighters appear and who are practically given rights to fighters. Although the objection is not essential, but since the minister has said it several times, since it has been taken over from previous laws, it is in our amendments, but here, we draw attention to getting one expression out of the law – the fighter is on fire. Gentlemen, there is no such thing as an inappropriate term. When we talk about soldiers, we say, the dead soldier. When we talk about fighters, we say a fallen fighter. Both soldiers and fighters were killed. We gave it up in some five amendments, and then we suggested that when you accept that amendment that it was a dead fighter, then through technical processing and lecturing, it was regulated and that even though it was taken over from the previous period, you now have the possibility of it being regulated right in the future because all the fighters had drawn attention to that term being inadequate. I don't think there's any reason because it's not a fundamental remark, it's more language-technical and it needs to be accepted. When it comes to members, we believe that in Article 5(7), the period from 23 March 1998 to 26 June 1999 was to be in that member and to be mentioned in Kosovo and Metohija. However, since point 6 is generally a possibility, and I think you may have thought that way, that period from March 23rd 1998 to March 24th 1999 should be covered and then that's okay. It's acceptable on that side. As for establishing the basis, in the earlier law, the basis was somewhat simpler, and you could, you know, last year when it was passed, Mr. Minister, that illegal regulation, so after two months of emergency procedure, we passed it illegally, where the basis was determined on the basis of the average of the previous year. Now that law has been abolished. I don't think he should have kept this for two months that last month's payoff. I just don't understand why you don't say average from the last month. The earlier basics were arranged differently. So the average salary from the previous month increased by 80%. That was the basis. The first category invalids had a 100% base, and then everyone else had a dependent on which group of people with disabilities they belonged. That was also very logical. It could've been done like that now. I'm not saying this is how you decided it can't be done. So it's a little bit more complicated, because now we have four basics, of which by this first one, it's said that the first category disabled have 188 percent of the base. Well, what was more logical was that they had 100% of the base, and everyone else below that and everyone else, family and everyone else, who's making certain that the rights are somewhere below 100%. But since you've already arranged it this way, it can be that way. And from these four bases, I draw your attention to this quarter, because it's really offensive, not to say and embarrassing. It is the right to a combat supplement, where the basis is the lowest amount of pension in the insurance of employees in the Republic of Serbia, which is around 13.200,00 dinar. If you took it, and you tied it up, somehow, and it could've been, by the percentages of the base when you get a salary for the middle, for the salary in the Republic of Serbia, two months ahead of that month, it would've been kind of painless and more acceptable. But when you tie it up, for the legal minimum amount of pension that is so big, so when it's said that third category of fighters, that they belong to 60% of such a miserable amount, then we think it's wrong, and because of that, this law is not acceptable to us. You've categorized the fighters. We had this variety of options, and I personally never wanted there to be fighters of the first, second, third categories, but in one in Republika Srpska, in their law, there are fighters of the eighth category. But, well, it can also be acceptable. I'd like Mr. Minister, since a child's allowance is being introduced for military people, just to let me know if it's from the first to the seventh group, why isn't it until the tenth, and just to explain to me how this military invalid, a war cripple, is going to make it happen. As far as healthcare is concerned, it is said here that we have sought health care and here it is said that a fighter begins in Article 62, and then everyone else has the right to health care according to the regulations governing health care. Please, just to give me a little more details, because we're looking for it, and it means that the fighters have got it right, and now only how it's going to work. A combat supplement, article 86, our position has always been that a combat supplement should never be tied to any property situation, precisely because it's some kind of national recognition. However, if the possibilities of a state are not such that it can be implemented in this way, we would accept that it is different. But, not so humiliatingly, that article lists the conditions that a fighter needs to meet, to get a combat bonus. In the earlier proposal, that draft was 65 years old, and now you've reduced it to 60 years. But then you set the conditions, that it is not in a working relationship, that it is not a user of pensions, that it does not carry out tasks on the basis of a contract, that it does not carry out its own business, that it is not a member of a company, that it is not a member of a company, that it is not a liability of a contribution to the PIO, that it does not exercise ownership rights, and that it is fruitful on agricultural land, that it is not a beneficiary of the right to monthly income under this law and that it does not exercise this right in another country. And then she says she's not realizing material support through financial welfare. Well, gentlemen, the financial social aid is bigger than this fighter supplement, and that's what's humiliating, that social aid, that's, that means, the condition that if a fighter has it, then he can't achieve a combat supplement, and this as you've given these conditions, it should be a complete homeless man, who has nothing. The question arises, and how will this man live until the 60th year, to get to 60 years, to get that combat supplement, when you've set such restrictive conditions, gentlemen, then you simply didn't have to mention any years, because the number of people who would meet these conditions today, the number of fighters, I absolutely don't think it's great, and that the state of Serbia could, when all the others were excluded, and later they were given, that the fighter of the first category belonged 100%, the second 80%, and the third category 60% of this amount. Now there's something that we find offensive and why we're not going to vote for this law and why we think this is still humiliating for fighters and that it should never have been done that way and listed years. If everything is so restrictive, then it should have been said to belong to fighters who meet these conditions. Mr. Minister, and in article 93, after spending time in armed actions, it says, is recognised as a special internship. As soon as possible, because that internship as recognized by me, in double duration. It is a good thing that Article 96, 94, mentions the right of fighters to the apartment and that in some order they are classified with other categories. Member of the 104th, Mr. Minister, battle monument. I think what you've made possible for the fighters to get a battle monument, that maybe it's one of the greatest contributions to this for the fighters. But since you haven't defined the battle monument, I don't know if you and I are thinking the same thing. It consists of some two elements. One would be, exactly as you say, four, so the medal and the other would be written, which follows, which should be appropriate. Since we've been thinking about this for 20 years, and since we already have a Partisan Monument 41 in this law. - 45th year, then we have a 11th-45th monument. In the last 20 years, we've been talking about the Memorial of the victims of war and the defenders of the country's 1990/1999. A year. We even have an idea solution. The idea solution is related to something else because this law does not say that fighters are experiencing on June 28th as Vidovdan, and that is "Brother's Day". He was always like that in our tradition. He's a minor as such in our historical memory, not to say he's like that in our genetic code. At that medal, we predicted that from the 1919 picture of Uros Predic, the "Kosovo Girl" one element would be relevant, precisely because it reminds... And that picture usually carries one very large symbolism, and it reminds us of June 28th, on Vidovdan which we experience as “Brother Day” and no other day we will ever accept as “Brother Day” or as Veterans Day. Right to ID. It's okay, we're looking for it, it's given. This is where we saw that one wide circle of the bearer of that legitimacy would be. Okay. So be it. Now, when it's determined, it should be in a legitimate position to stand up for what it allows. At the "Ravnogorska Monument", you prescribed how it should look and we have no problem with it. We agree. So be it. However, Article 118 already discusses the Commission for the exercise of rights on the basis of "Employments of Ravnogor". We are solely against this being the composition of the Commission, because although it has already been over, how many, 20 years, equal rights of equidistants and members of the People's Liberation Movement have never been able to achieve their rights, because in the commission there are members of SUBNOR. You're the one who predicted that there were three members of SuBNOR sitting on this committee. They see the eunuchs as enemies, they're exclusive. That's what we've seen in practice so far. We believe that all members should be appointed by the Assembly on the basis of a proposal from the parliamentary groups. In Article 125's final position, we believe it should be deleted, because if it's spoken here about equogori, and I think it's thought of them, and the judgments that revolutionary courts have made, they're absolutely not adequate, and everyone couldn't execute and everyone didn't go rehabilitating their ancestors. Just to say, when it comes to the "Ravnogorska Monument", that we are through one amendment, because the eunuchs are no longer alive, there are no living or Spanish fighters, I would like Mr. Minister to tell me if there is one living folk hero? The only one in these wars we had was one hero who died, and based on his heroic act, he won the Order of the People's Hero. So, if the descendants of the equinoxes, they don't write here in what way, they still have the right to do this on request. You need to write a request. When it comes to posttraumatic syndrome. It's good, Mr. Minister, that you've accepted that Articles 137 and 147 give the possibility that what we've been looking for, that the fighters who have suffered from this posttraumatic syndrome, to solve their problem. We think that what's given in Article 137 of this deadline, that maybe it should be extended by a year, because you've already given it here in article 148 where it takes a lot of things, because if it were just the paperwork for the past 20 years then that would be fine, but I don't think it's any problem if it's said that instead of a year, it's two years and that this problem is solved in that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72273	Thank you. You have no more time scheduled for your discussion. You've been through the deadline for over two minutes. (Nemnja Sarovic: Can he use the time of the parliamentary group?) He can't. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72274	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers with their assistants, we have a number of important laws, agreements. I'll start, first of all, on the law on gambling. A lively discussion took place about the Law on Games of Happiness in this congregation meeting. Namely, we had two amendments to the Games Act in 2018, one, the other in 2019 and today, here with the beginning of 2020, we have one comprehensive, brand-new Act on Games on Happiness. We, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Rasim Ljajic, were to say that the existing law is not valid, that it is very often bypassed and that it needs to be changed as soon as possible. I have pointed out the events and numerous abuses of this law, I have held even press conferences here, above all, its non-compliance and numerous abuses in the New Market and other cities. We pointed out that the law was not respected, first of all, by that provision relating to the distance of schools from bookies, we stressed that the bookies did not respect the legal provision that minors should not be allowed to gamble, we sought stricter conditions and constant control as well as rigorous criminal measures. The current situation in the Republic of Serbia is indeed alarming, one and a half million inhabitants of this country participate in gambling, not to say that gambling is not much better and is not a much better situation among high school students, as almost every third high school student has been found to be betting. Each third grader in Serbia regularly gambles, is the result of one survey, which took place in 2017 in the context of a worldwide project by the Institute of Public Health "Batut" and that is something that really defeats. The children's priorities are no longer their hobby, sport, success in school, but gambling, they become tense, irritable, and all of this is projected at a relationship with family, teachers and society. Now, that's what really concerns the most, as well as the question that all of us are asking, which is what is the fate of a nation whose third youth is dependent, in this case, on gambling? Indeed, one painful question that we must ask one another. The games of chance, we all know, are the favorite entertainment in the Republic of Serbia, especially in the male population, but it is extremely worrying about one tolerance of society towards it as well as the tolerance of parents, as well as professors who often get into schools and jokes and put together tickets with their students without knowing how destructive this disease can affect them. Given that gambling is legal, even socially acceptable could be said, because, as I said, many people seem favorably, the situation has indeed taken critical turns. The most critical were two major cities, Nis with 62% of young people who had at least once gambled between 12 and 16 and Novi Sad 61%. There were 2,107 casinos or casinos in Serbia in 2017, and 71.7m euros from these funds were paid to the Republic of Serbia in 2019. What worries is that there is a constant trend in the growth of addicts and among adolescents. According to Batut, about 40,000 gambling addicts reported treatment of this type of addiction. The problem is even bigger if it is known that today is both current and online gambling and that during the payment of tickets via the internet employees of bookshops and casinos can hardly control the already in force condition that we have already adopted in these changes, that gambling cannot be played by persons under 18 years of age. I am therefore extremely pleased that our appeals have had an effect and that the state has decided to limit the work of casinos, bookshops and automatic clubs due to the alarming increase of pathological gambling addicts. The main newspaper in this law is that, although the establishment will retain that provision that the casino must be more than 200 meters from the educational institution, and we have also sought stricter criteria, that newly opened or newly established casinos must be at least 100 meters from the existing casino. In this way, we will practically enable... We will judge them and, it seems to me, reduce their presence in one place and thus reduce the attention of the people towards them. You know how many providers of these services are attacked in their advertising and attacked in, practically, spreading their influence or, let me say, infecting young people with this kind of worrying behavior. Once again, I remind you that this is a behavioral disorder that we say in psychiatry is indeed a disease and that it forms an extremely large addiction. According to the draft law that is before us, there are also rigorous conditions of existence, so anyone who wants to deal with this job will have to have a founding capital of at least 250,000 euros, a dedicated deposit in a bank of 300,000 euros, 50,000 euros a deposit risk in a cash register or a safe, 500 euros deposited in a bank for each machine and 100 euros in a cash register each day, while for those chains for slot clubs that have more than 2,000 appliances deposit will be amazing millions of euros, just like the casinos that have a live game. I am pleased that the legislator has indeed resorted and adopted our appeals to be extremely strict, to reduce in every way the number of these casinos, and thus we really control this problematic state that has come to us. I hope that this solution, which is fully in line with the European directives and some legal practice of the EU, will deliver results in reducing the trend of gambling growth in Serbia. Of course, this problem must be further focused on us, that even after the adoption of this law we must follow its effects and be prepared to, if we do not, and if it does not produce quality results, or reduce addiction, we are willing not only to change it, but also to think about the total abolition of gambling in our country, or the total elimination of gambling. I'm convinced that gambling wasn't the only one who didn't gamble. You know that joke about the pyromaniac, when he keeps praying to God to win on Lotou, then he comes to him in a dream from God to have to pay the ticket sometime. God, in this case, it seems that the pyromaniac was smarter than those who staged games of chance. Once again, in games of good fortune, not only did he lose who did not, as I believe, and I am glad that, and the people's wisdom, he did not receive only one who did not participate. So I'm saying that this has to be one of our possible alternatives. Since 1 January 2019, work has ceased in Albania and there has been an absolute ban on all bookshops, i.e. a gambling ban. Not only are cafes where people, bookmakers and similar institutions are banned, and it is possible that in hotels with five stars, which are outside city centers, in certain areas there is a possibility that people who have so many resources and who, in my opinion, are overnumbered, bet and bet on them, there is some kind of pleasure and dangum. Of course, I also respect the fact that the recent history has shown us that prohibition, on the other hand, can be harmful and, in this case, from the field of vision. From the absolute control that the state has in this proposed form, which we now have, it can, if it forbids gambling in Serbia, to go through that black, dark part that can be hard to control, in the crime zone, and the profit that the state is making in fact would be overrun by criminals who would secretly organize different types of gambling, and that argument that is on the tone and on the wave of this law that is proposed, should be established. In any case, a solution as well as in many areas in life to measure and I think, by adopting this law, we're going to make a quality move. The stricter control and monitoring of the law itself is a good solution, but I repeat again, we need to be prepared if this law does not give birth to quality results, to act even more drastically. In the SDP, we pay great attention to this social problem, knowing that the treatment of this disease is very painful and difficult and that prevention is the most effective method. Since the proposed law focuses on prevention of disease of addiction and protection of minors as the most vulnerable group, we will indeed support this law in the day of voting. As for the Law on the Rights of Fighters, War-War Disabilities, Civil Disabilities War and Family Members, I consider the law to be generally good, human and just. As Social Democrats, we stand for a comprehensive solution. We support lawmakers and wartime wartime people with disabilities, civilian wartime people, members of their families on pensions, money supplements, apartment assignments and other benefits and benefits. We show great respect for all the people who participated in the defence of our country's freedom and territorial integrity. However, as a citizen and as a Social Democrats and all of us from Social Democracy, as expressions and staunch representatives of the anti-fascist definition, we can never agree on the equalisation of the Partisan and Equality Movement, nor accept the equalisation of partisans and Chetniks. Of course, I point out our extremely negative attitude towards reviewing the past and minimising the anti-fascist struggle against occupiers in World War II. In front of us today, dear gentlemen, there is indeed one set of many laws confirming contracts, agreements, agreements with different states, and I think that all of them are affirmative, good, that what is for us Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic, is approaching Serbia's modern societies, that they are modernising our society and that they are equating our legal system with the legal system of Europe, which is crucial for us because the European path is a crucial path and I believe the greatest and strongest link us in this coalition. For me, these laws, contracts, agreements that we make with the Republic of Turkey are really very important. I remind you that King Alexander, who, in my opinion, with Despot Stefan Lazarevic, one of the greatest Serbian rulers, has defined this country's policy towards the Republic of Turkey as brotherly relations with the heritage of permanent peace and closest co-operation. Today, there is great trust between the Republic of Turkey and Serbia and today the relations of the two countries may be the best in the modern history of the two countries. The main political project that supports both Ankara and Belgrade is ensuring peace and stability throughout the Balkans. As far as economic co-operation is concerned, it is indeed on an extraordinary rise, and this really brings me joy to the mutual interest of both countries. I will remind you that today the value of Turkish direct investment is more than 200m euros in Serbia and that in 2011, it was about one million, which is a drastic difference. Today, the number of Turkish companies in Serbia, gentlemen, is over 800 in these Turkish companies for over 10,000 of our citizens, and that is indeed something to be proud of and something to be commended for. It really implodes the course that the government has taken towards the Republic of Turkey, as one of the imperial forces and one where it really is worth, first of all, our interest to develop good neighbourly and quality economic relations. Turkish companies have taken over more than 19 projects worth about $400m today, and 17 out of 19 have already begun their realization. According to the Republic of Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, the investment that amounted to around 200 million in 2013, today or over a billion euros in gross exchange, estimated to reach two billion in real high places in the external trade between Serbia and other countries very quickly. We have before us laws on the validation of the Agreement on the Military Industry, the co-operation of the technology industry with the Republic of Turkey, as well as agreements in the areas of security, veterinary, as well as in the areas of water. I repeat once again that we will be happy to support these agreements as a confirmation of the government's good definition of a truly industrialised state, such as the Republic of Turkey and continue to develop good neighbourly relations to mutual benefit. I also look forward to working with the Republic of BiH. As Social Democrats, we inherit the view that the nearest and most friendly countries should be our neighbouring countries, that smart people keep friends close to themselves, and enemies away from us. I don't believe Serbia has a better friend than the state that BiH is. I also support other agreements with countries both in the environment and in other parts of the earth's pattern, and I think their confirmation and voting for them is a step forward in improving life in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72275	Thank you. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72276	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished representatives from the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Mr. Djordjevic and Mr. Neric, the respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance headed by Minister Sinisha Mali, will begin by saying that on the agenda of today's assembly session and in the overall principle search yesterday, today and the next day, we are talking about very important laws that have waited almost 20 years for them to enter the assembly procedure that speaks of the importance and importance of these laws. In front of the JS parliamentary group, I will talk today about the first six points of the agenda, while other points of the agenda will be discussed by my distinguished colleagues from the JS parliamentary group. Unique Serbia and our coalition partners, together with our presidents Dragan Markovic Palm and Ivica Dacic, provide unequivocal and clear support for the adoption of all laws here in the National Assembly from the very beginning. That's how it's gonna be now. So we're going to give and support all the laws that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have filed here in the National Assembly. So, with clear and positive results in all areas of social, social, financial, political and security and economic life of the Republic of Serbia, and for us in Unity Serbia, these laws which are on the agenda, especially regarding the area of social protection, are of paramount importance, as the Single Serbia programme puts firstly programmes in the field of social protection of the family of disabled people. A unique Serbia will vote for all your laws, respected Minister Djordjevic, which you have submitted. They are extremely significant, they are extremely good compared to the original draft law given. We, as members and deputies of the Committee on Work with you and colleagues from the Ministry, have indeed conducted an argumentative and constructive debate and commitment on the Committee. With the presidents of the Fighters' Association, there was one, let me say, for the time being, a good solution. Of course, JS MPs will also make certain amendments and the whole debate by colleagues today is very important, because all of this needs to be changed and completed, and we believe that this new bill will put all colleagues to the vote for this law that is extremely important to our fighters, veterans, wartime people with disabilities and burn fighters. These laws have been really waiting 20 years. Folkly speaking, they are hidden under the carpet, and it is important that you have just included them in this congregation procedure as a priority at this 26th extraordinary session. The proposed laws together with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia absolutely must work every day to create conditions for the better lives of our fighters, to create conditions and not allow them to fall under the social category and for a better future for all children in the Republic of Serbia, to stay here to live, to stay in our homeland, because we do not have a second and reserve country. The legal acts that were in the assembly procedure yesterday, which we were also considering on the Committee on Justice and discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, should provide legal continuity, should give rule, greater rule of law to the Republic of Serbia, because in truth all these laws justify the legal system primarily of the Republic of Serbia, and then all other laws, including social and financial laws that are relevant to the economic and social status of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia considers our fighters in wars the most responsible citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I ask all citizens of the Republic of Serbia not to listen to the truths that are being placed and that we here in the high house are fighting for the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we are fighting for the dignity of the rights of the fighters. We fight, therefore, so that there may never be wars again, that there may never be bombings, pains, sufferings again. I'm a JS MP, but I'm also a great-grandson and a grandson of fallen fighters. A colleague said at one point that we are not using the term - fallen fighters, but it is a system of fighters in the First and Second World War, but I am also the wife, sister and daughter of fighters in the wars that took place in the previous period in Croatia and in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. So, I am proud to say that we are fighting here for all categories of fighters and that for the first time this law included fighters who fought both in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, who fought in the previous war on Croatia's territory. Fighters, heroes, veterans, members of their families, military invalids, must be recognized in ensuring all rights and must be a greater degree of legal certainty. For us from JS, it is a priority, and it is most important, that fighters, let me say, that this current matter that needs to protect fighters, military disabled people and families of fallen fighters must be systematically united in one legal act, given that current laws, laws dating from, let me say, these federal laws are not in one direction. And there were several laws, so there was no single legal act that would unite all their rights. So this latest law based on the rights of fighters dates back to 1998 and requires a single regulation of the area. The law has been radically changed in relation to the previous version. I expect great support from all MPs, of course, with certain arguments as to what needs to be changed and amended, listening to both the rights of fighters and representatives of their associations and the association of veterans. You, Minister, have here today really concisely, clearly and in detail outlined certain details and in some way framed the legislative proposal, that we could get a clear picture of all the items in this bill. Therefore, the existing draft law, which is before us on the agenda, sublimes 12 existing laws, four regulations, one provision, four protocols, four instructions, two agreements and one conclusion, and in the preparation of this draft legislation were attended by representatives of the Association of Military Disabilities and Fighters. This law does not deny any rights to combatants, but in accordance with the state's capabilities, conditions are created to introduce additional rights of fighters. All together, we will agree, we must both as a society and as a state and as individuals and as MPs, as representatives of the legislative authority, to respect those who have fought, who have bled, who have died for our country, to preserve the memory of those who have given lives for our better tomorrow and for better tomorrow children in the Republic of Serbia, because they represent our heroes both as a society and as a state we must show them both gratitude and respect for everything they have done. We want the status of fighters to be really clearly defined, who are fighters, from which times they have the status of fighters and to ensure many benefits for all warriors in certain cases and members of their families, parents and offspring. We will, of course, also advocate amendments that combatants who deserve the most respect and dignity should not be forgotten, which is also shown by this law, should not be left to the case, and not to be social cases, but to the merits of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because war fighters are the foundation of state and patriotism, and this must be appreciated and respected. We from the JS believe that they have the greatest merit for Serbia that today is, that has survived and that exists. When we talk about a combat supplement, it certainly needs to be classified as a form of national recognition. I'd like to ask you here, here, for some further explanation, because I don't think there's enough definition of a fighter supplement and its height, as well as the health care that the fighters got as one of the rights. What they stand for and what I believe is so far included as a holiday and Fighter's Day always is Vidovdan, and that here in the assembly procedure and that the bill should be entered to determine the day of the war fighters, among other things, and the day of veterans, who demand that we determine in order to respect our Serbia and the value and this holiday. I am sorry that State Secretary Nenad Neric is currently out and away. He was involved in all our talks, he even visited the district and together with us certain families of wartime military disableds, and indeed, within the framework of the State Secretariat and your ministry, he advocated improving the status of fighters, but he was also involved in certain discussions and suggestions, when it comes to disabled people, not only the disabled wars, but also our disabled in Serbia, so many proposals were respected by both the State Secretary and your ministry which these associations and individuals suggested. Also, you have explained another law that will support the JS parliamentary group. This is a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India, a significant agreement. You have the full support of our parliamentary group. Then, on the agenda, we have a large number of protocols, agreements. I'll talk about confirming the protocol for international transport of goods. Then, we have a very important law, so I don't forget it, the law on gambling. Under this law, the work of the Ministry and the Minister of Finance should be particularly praised, which this law has included in the assembly procedure, the Law on Games, because this law will significantly increase the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but the financial resources that will be under this budget will be determined by certain categories, I say, the population, primarily disabled persons, which is of great importance. We at JS are, to say, the social programme is always put first and we believe that disabled people as a category in many jobs are not accepted. Many are on the verge of existence. Of course, not all people with disabilities should be placed in the same basket, because the different conditions of life under which they live, but funding from the budget, funding of the Red Cross, funding of social protection institutions and what is most important is the financing of rare diseases for children treated abroad and who are to be treated abroad. Of course we've passed this law, but this is an increase in funds and an increase in funds, which is of paramount importance. So, in this way, the state has shown that it is significantly investing in support and protection, let's say, disabled and even social categories, and that it sets out huge funds. Of course, there should be greater control and social work centres, but also big money that the state singles out and which it finances. NGOs and self-government sites certainly need to be controlled by the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. Also, the agreement and protocol relating to climate resistance and irrigation in Serbia, which the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted on 31 January 2020, is of great importance. I have repeatedly asked parliamentary questions to the Ministry of Agriculture, when it comes to the irrigation system due to changed climate conditions and dry years. It is very important to establish a irrigation system in the Republic of Serbia so that farmers can secure their agricultural production. What is of paramount importance are agreements, visa waiver protocols with a large number of countries. This is in favour of the excellent diplomatic policy led by Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. He now also received a very significant recognition in Thessaloniki, the Hilandary Monument, and visited the event and Zeitinlik. This is all in favour of the excellent foreign policy of Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, which is very important for our country, which is very important for lifting visas with a large number of countries, because every country, every new one, is established for us, to say, a friendly relationship, both with countries in the environment and the region, Europe and the world, especially when we are struggling to question the withdrawal of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, which is this way and confirmed. If we believe that everyone here thinks that Alexander Vukic is indeed the best statesman in the history of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic is the best foreign minister, we should mention, when it comes to, let me say, the social programme, and you, ministers, have repeatedly praised Jagodina, as a very good and significant example led by the President of Unity of Serbia, Dragan Markovic Palma, where we now have the opening of the fourth industrial zone and where every day, I say, the number of youth employment increases. It also affects the stability of families, the stability of the birth of children, certainly employment, the bringing of foreign investors. These are all very important factors that the Republic of Serbia is really going in the right direction. It should indeed be noted, very important, as presented now and at a large regional conference, the strong support of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which we have confirmed here and in these agreements now in the sixth and seventh places of support of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, but is believed to be included in the current, next year among the first five countries that have the support and trust of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is very important for keeping young people in the Republic of Serbia, for staying and surviving young people, for starting families in the Republic of Serbia and for hiring. By the Single Serbia parliamentary group Dragan Markovic Palma, you will certainly have full support for all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72277	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72278	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens, is few people whose existence has been measured for centuries and whose history is as rich and glorious, and fate so tormented and heroic as we can say for the Serbian people. For centuries, our people have been defended by many great conquerors, and for centuries our people have defended both their freedom and the freedom of their neighbours, not wanting to pay for this freedom to those most precious of all that a nation has, the lives of its bravest and best sons. He can't choose where he'll be born and he can't choose where and how he dies, but he can choose what he lives for and he can choose what he dies for. The Serbian people always knew they chose and never made a mistake, and his choice obliges us, as will the generations who come after us. The Serbian people have never sinned and the Serbian people have never been on the wrong side and we must never let them convince us otherwise. Let's remember, our people have always been on the side of freedom and justice, no matter what the price has to pay, never asking what that price is. That is why far greater nations than ours cannot boast of such glorious history, such a freed tradition, such a heroic struggle and so many victims. Much greater nations can learn from our people how to love and defend freedom. He knew that through his history, the Serbian people would face stronger, stronger, and richer. He knew that for freedom he sacrificed his youth, his future. He knew he didn't rise in victory, just as he knew he wouldn't be humiliated in defeat. He knew the Serbian people to celebrate and sing their heroes and heroes, to swear on them and their courage, but he often knew to forget them, to leave alone and abandoned those who fought for his freedom, those who were the bravest, the most human beings, the most frequent. He knew to forget his fighters, warriors and liberators, when they needed him most, then it was hard for them and when they needed help. He knew to forget their wounds, their pain, their misfortune, but they never forgot Serbia, their only country. The 20th century was probably one of the bloodiest and most difficult for the Serbian people in his history. Six wars, millions of dead and wounded, hundreds of thousands of people with disabilities, orphans leaving a deep mark on the Serbian people. Especially severe and painful were war conflicts during the 1990s, conflicts during which the Serb people died at the hands of those whose freedom fought twice during the same 20th century. So to say, against all, alone against, as they taught us, the brothers of yesterday and themselves against the 19 richest, most powerful countries of the world gathered against a small, righteous country and its freed people. None of this and no force has scared the brave defenders who stood for 78 days heroically on the defender of the homeland, defending their homes and their non-monetary, knowing that they could not give up one step, not one inch at the cost of what they had at the time, the price of their lives. There is no way that the state of Serbia, nor we in this parliament, can ever repay these brave defenders, these heroes of the battles of Paštrik and Kosharam, as well as the heroes of numerous battles in the territory of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. There is no way, there is no Order, there is no recognition that can be compensation for their sacrifice, for their lost lives, for lost hands and legs, for their youth spent in trenches, on the defender of the homeland. Also, there is no word of apology, there is no repentance that could elicit the shame that individuals in the former regime have inflicted on the NATO pact's commanders, as well as commanders of the Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska's military, which the former DOS regime impertinently retired and even more shamefully literally hunted, arrested, and delivered to the Hague casamat, in addition to its Western bosses who have brought them against the will of the people to power. We will not hide that by 2012, the state of Serbia has treated its fighters extremely badly. That ugly past and an ugly relationship to them is now a thing of the past. Never a single high-ranking state officials of the former DOS regime will this people forgive their inhumane relationship with the fighters and their families, as they will not forgive all attempts to gain the personal interest and survival of the authorities to conceal the innocent victims of this people. Never will this people forget the period when criminal NATO aggression was called action or intervention, when they said that the "Storm" and the pogrom of Serbs from the Krajina were legal police actions, when Cypriot terrorists and criminals were released from prison, and defenders and heroes were fired from work, humiliated, arrested and sent to The Hague cadet. Never will this people forget that for the sake of their hands the authorities humiliated themselves, both the state and the people, as they humbly kneeled in the countries of the region, apologized for alleged crimes for which the Serbian people were neither guilty, without seeking an apology for crimes against their own people. It is because of all this honor today to be in this House and it is an honor to do at least something to improve the position of fighters, military and civilian disabled wars, as well as their families, and above all, the family of dead heroes. All of our fighters, all of our heroes, whether they were at Kosharam, Paštrik, or in those wars with the beginning of the 1990s, led to the survival of the Serbian people on the ancient hearths, wars that Serbia and the Serbian people neither wanted nor challenged, have the right to take care of them. For a long time, the state of Serbia was ashamed and sheltered from these people and their families and long kept quiet about their role or allowed them to be spoken ill and placed in the pit of the worst. For a long time, Serbia was their mother's stepmother. These people were indeed the best, the bravest, the most frequent and the most humane that Serbia had at the time and could not possibly have been the worst, as represented by the DOS regime, courting its mentors. What must be recognised by the current republican government, where today Minister Zoran Djordjevic, who is in charge of caring for fighters, is that like all previous governments in the last eight years, care for fighters, military and civilian disabled people, as well as their families has raised to a far higher level. It must be acknowledged that during the prime minister's term, Alexander Vukic, for the first time marked the anniversary of NATO aggression at the state level, that for the first time, Serbia has made it public, loud and clear that it will never forget the crimes the NATO pact committed against the Serb people, and that the first time since 1995, at the state level, has been marked by a pogrom over the Serb people of Republika Srpska during the crime action "The Storm", carried out by the Croatian military and police. On this occasion, I will not talk about the concrete legislative solutions of the proposed law, they will be spoken of by my colleagues from the MP's club in a later debate, but what I must say is the irrefutable fact that the proposed legislation will largely restore the dignity of the fighters, the wartime disabled and their families, because this legislative proposal brings together 12 laws relating to fighters, such as more regulations, decisions, protocols, and what is most important is the introduction of nine new rights, which shows and shows how much we respect all those who fought for our country and how we preserve the memory of those who gave lives for our free lives and for our better tomorrow. I am sure that the adoption of this new law is just the beginning of what the government of Serbia has in mind when it comes to the rights of disabled fighters and their families, and that the co-operation of the Republic government and the rest of the ministry with associations of wartime disabled and fighters throughout Serbia will continue in the coming period. I am sure that after the upcoming parliamentary elections, the new Republic government, as well as the resolution ministry, will continue to fight to improve the position of the fighting population, because a country that is unable to remember those who have defended and created it and to repay them for their sacrifice cannot hope for a generation that will someday take care of it, and Serbia is able to do so. That it thus shows and proves that the bill and all other activities undertaken to improve the position of fighters over the last eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72279	Thank you. We'd be done with this morning's work. I'm setting a break. We'll continue in one hour, at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72280	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Dr Danica Bukvic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72281	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are discussing a second set of proposed laws and agreements. I will dedicate myself to the draft law on gambling, while other proposed acts will be discussed in more detail by my colleagues. The law on gambling was passed in 2011 and then the Board of Games was formed as the body of the Ministry of Finance, and by amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, which was done in 2012, the tax administration took over the powers that the gambling administration had until then. During 2018 and 2019, the amendments and additions to the Law on Games have been re-educated by the Board of Games as an authority of the Ministry of Finance and thus a legal framework has been established to monitor the gambling directors and to implement the necessary harmonisation of legislation with the regulations governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In practice, however, it proved that the law was still insufficiently precise and efficient and did not allow adequate editing of the area. We are witnessing that there is a constant growth in the gambling market in Serbia, and rapid technological developments in this industry are also evident, and this was also the reason for the introduction of new legal solutions. The adoption of a new law creates the necessary conditions for better regulation of the gambling market compared to the current situation. The aim of the new law is to reduce the grey economy in this area in order to protect state interests, as well as to increase revenues and adapt to international standards in this area. The paper is that the expected burdens of gambling editors, in terms of the prescribed amount of the rate to be charged for the adjustment of the minimum monthly amount of the adjustment fee, the necessary amounts of the basic capital amount, as well as the minimum amount of the bank's deposit, i.e. bank guarantees to ensure the payout of profits. In relation to the existing legal solution, the minimum amount of capital capital is higher for the editor of special gambling on automatics and special gambling, i.e. betting. The new law, among other things, specifies and complements the current way of advertising and advertising games of chance, and so that advertising must be followed by a ban on minors and a warning about the prevention of disease of addiction. Also, the ban on advertising and advertising of gambling and processors in print and electronic media intended for minors is being extended. A minimum distance of 100 meters is prescribed between new locations where games of chance are held. Distance from the building of educational institutions of primary and secondary school cannot be less than 200 meters. In fact, a high concentration of gambling facilities has been observed, which negatively affects young people, especially young people. It is necessary to make these institutions less accessible, the most vulnerable group of inhabitants, i.e. young people, children and minors who are subject to the production of all forms of gambling and betting. This unfortunately does not refer to found locations where gambling is being held. In order to prevent possible abuses, the proposed law imposes a ban on directors of special gambling, betting by the director who owns or co-owners of a sports club, to the event in this kind of sport and rank competition. The paper is also the introduction of an electronic communications system into this activity. Namely, automatic maintenance is prohibited, as well as equipment that does not allow the exchange of data by electronic means with the software solution of the gambling management. In this way, setting up an electronic surveillance system will allow easier identification of illegal editors, which will help reduce the grey economy in this area. Also prescribed is the obligation to have video surveillance in automatic clubs, bookshops, which is a protection against abuse. Accepting a significant fact that gambling on the luck of the state provides funding for people with disabilities, the Red Cross, funds for the treatment of rare diseases and other associations, whose aim is to improve the socio-economic and social position of a person in a social need, I must refer to the problem this activity brings. I think 200 meters from the school's bookies is not enough. Also, we are witnessing violations of regulations and the fact that children stand in front of bookies and give money to full-time people to make payments for them. This requires strict control to prevent all of this. According to data on Serbia's public health, the most common gambling game is lottery play: lottery, bingo, reef, and second place is sports betting. The percentage of gambling addicts in Serbia is not different from the European average of the adult population, but this number is constantly increasing, and it is particularly worrying about the growth of pathological gambling addicts. I point out that every number of addicts, even the smallest, is a problem and must be approached very seriously and responsibly. This law increases obligations when it comes to responsible betting, stricter advertising rules are introduced, and all employees of gambling directors who have direct contact with participants must be trained to prevent the disease from being dependent on participants in gambling. Allow me to refer in a few sentences to another very important law that today is in front of MPs, which is the bill on rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil invalids of war and members of their families. In fact, there is a public idea that the overall legislative matter regulated by this area should be governed by a single roof regulation. For the first time, this bill singles out the area of martial law protection and the protection of civil persons with disabilities. It is important to stress that both the material and the social status of the users whose rights are being regulated has been taken into account when making the law. Therefore, the law does not provide for the abolition of any right so far, but rather gives new benefits that will be more than 20. Also, the law clearly defines which users whose rights are being regulated, namely: fighters, wartime and peacetime military disableds, civilian disabled wars, members of families of fallen fighters, dead military people, persons who died or died in the military in peace, dead civilian war and civilian war victims. What is particularly important is that this proposal also introduces a new category of users, which has unfortunately not been covered by the legislation so far. Thus, this bill for the first time regulated the rights of fighters who participated in the armed actions of the 1990s, fighters who participated in the war in 1999 and who will participate in a future war. It is important to stress that behind the work on this bill there is a consensus between the state and the fighting associations, the resulting quality and scope of the law that will contribute to the state and social care of all categories of victims of freedom and defence of state sovereignty. A further discussion of counterparts from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club will discuss the bill more. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support all proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72282	Thank you, colleague Bukvic. The word has the authority of LDP-LSV-SDA Sandzak, MP Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72283	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, first I will talk about the Bill of Rights of Fighters and Military Disabilities and I want to point out at the very beginning that the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina, will vote against this law. We don't agree with all the demands of fighters and military people with disabilities, but first I will pay attention that the state must take care of the people who sacrificed for it and should not leave their families on the street as invisible citizens of this country. War veterans and military invalids are invisible to this country, left to themselves, because the state has for 29 years no solution for their status. The state closes its eyes to their rights and needs, as we see, and since 5 October 2019, military people and fighters have been staying in the Pioneer Park in Belgrade, in tents with the intention of attracting attention, forcing the state to introduce a 60-year-old fighter supplement, and after 60 years of retirement regardless of material and social status. The problem is that there is now, but there is discrimination, so some get these supplements and some don't. Also, war veterans and military disabled persons are looking for a special ministry, and the future minister is a proven war veteran, seeking the day of war veterans who will be on Vidovdan, and for the proven deserters to be banned from performing any public function. Finally, they ask for the amendment to the law to be withdrawn and the working group to make a new proposal. War veterans in Serbia demand a little more respect, but also an adequate law that would firstly recognise that status to all those who fought for national interests in the 1990s. War veterans and military disableds say a draft working group appeared on December 9th 2018 and then a draft law was released in a public debate that did not draft the task force. According to them, the ministry submitted a brand-new bill, dated 1 August 2019, the final draft law is definitely not the version that was in the public debate in which these military disabled and combatants participated. This bill is almost identical with the draft working group of December 2018. So far, compensation and rights are covered by the period from 18 August 1990 to 29 April 1992, which was at war in Croatia or from 15 May 1992, which was in Bosnia and Herzegovina throughout NATO aggression and from 24 March when the bombing began, until 29 June. So these two periods count. All that between, all those people who were 1993, 1994 or 1995 are not covered by the law. Those men, soldiers and policemen who were in 1996, 1997, in Kosovo and 2000, were wounded and killed, not covered by the law. That is the observation of those who are presently in front of the congregation. The only rights they have, which are covered by the law, otherwise the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that war veterans, wartime wartime disabled and members of families of the dead and missing, civilian disabled wars have special rights regulated by law. So what the Constitution says is that only wartime military disableds, members of the families of the dead and the missing and civilian disabled men of war have the rights regulated by law, while war veterans have absolutely no rights. The only right we could achieve is a special internship in that period, which is included as a war veteran, which is entitled to retire on some other basis or age and disability. It's the only real thing. However, this is not the same in all cities and in practice different, as it often happens that information comes from the PIO that the military did not pay during that period so that the right is mostly a dead letter on paper. For this reason, fighters and military people with disabilities are dissatisfied and demand that the law be withdrawn from the procedure. The second law on the agenda today is the draft law on gambling. Under the current law 40% of gambling revenues were used to finance the Red Cross of Serbia, helped organisations and associations of people with disabilities, then used for the needs of the state of social needs, social protection, sports, youth and treatment of children and persons from rare diseases. Since the state in one part, we've seen each other's proposal for this law, and no one wants to share a portion of the revenue that comes from gambling, in the first version of this law, it's been abolished so that, fortunately, all of us again, those 40% appear in the law, which I support. It is said that the new law on gambling is seducing order in casinos, as as many as 1.5 million Serbs are drawn to the dice. If that's the only reason this law is passed, we'll see in its application. Maybe that area should be settled because gambling is a big deal for the state. In our country, 2,107 bookshops were registered, and 71.7m euros were paid into the budget in 2019 from gambling games. Let's hope the state has decided to limit the work of casinos, bookshops and automatic clubs due to the alarming increase of pathological gambling addicts. This law, hopefully, will contribute to the survival of only a few, these strongest chains, while all those smaller ones will be prevented from surviving because we see that a lot of resources will be needed to invest and fulfil a lot of obligations. I hope the casinos they're working on black are closed. The old law has failed. There is no respect for the provision relating to the distance between the school and the bookshop. No one in the bookies respects the legal decree that minors should not be allowed to bet. Experts warn that more than a million and a half adults are gambling in Serbia, and there is no better situation among high school students, as each third is placed daily. It's devastating to know that 35% of high school boys are gambling. Let us hope that the state will be more important to deal with this monster and that addiction, not to put money in the budget first. The fact that big money has to be collected from gambling is that, for example, Lutrija Vojvodina, a once profitable company, had to be shut down and moved to Belgrade. Until that year 2004, there were three lotteryes, united today into one "Lutrija Serbia". Three Lutheran organisations, "Lutrija Serbia", "Lutrija Vojvodina" and "Lutrija Belgrade" existed on the territory. Today, all of this is centralized in Belgrade, and we see that this is another good example of how it all flows into the state budget, and the rest of the parts know how it develops regionally.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72284	Thank you, colleague. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Please sign in one more time. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72285	I thank, honourable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. There are two laws and a set of agreements before us today. First I'm going to talk about the first law, and that's the bill on rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civilian people with disabilities and their families. Why am I going to talk about this law first? Because this law covers ten chapters, because we have waited 27 years for this law, because this law in a unique, comprehensive, fundamentally very important way covers all segments concerning fighters, military disabled people, civilian disabled people and their families. For the first time in this law, it is true and precisely defined who is considered a fighter, which are categories and who is considered a fighter. What I would also like to point out is that in these legislative proposals, which the minister in the presentation of this law has initially made in a very detailed and reasoned way, all provisions of the law are in place and concern the protection of both fighters and wartime disabled people and civilian people with disabilities and their families. There's something else I want to point out. This law has been systematically passed for the reason that in a completely transparent way the working group worked, which involved a lot of organizations dealing with fighters, military peoples, civil war victims, civil wartime peoples, and that number of organisations is 50%. 21 organizations then submitted proposals for amendments and additions to this law and all those proposals that came in favour of the promotion of the legislative framework, the Ministry has adopted and therefore today we have before us this law which, of course, deserves all the praise, first because it is the first law after 27 years that regulates this area in a thorough and detailed manner. Of course, I want to point out, I will not repeat myself, given that the minister has indeed been exhausted, detailed and cited all the legal provisions that are relevant to this law, I will only state that this law provides for 25 rights relating to fighters, military people with disabilities, civilian people with disabilities and members of their families. I must also point out that none of the only rights previously used has been denied, on the contrary, these rights have been increased in terms of monetary donations. Also, I must stress that some new rights have been introduced, such as the right to a combat supplement, such as the right to legalisation, which is in fact a public document, such as the right to a special retirement internship of all fighters, then, as is the right to a fighting monument, it is in fact a national recognition of fighters, such as the right to uniform. I think the pride of anyone who defends the sovereignty and territorial integrity of his country is exactly uniform and flag. That is why this bill also proposes the right to uniform. Also, this bill also gives priority to employment, both a wartime military invalid and a fighter, as well as a fallen fighter's child. What is also a very important aspect of this law, it is the right to address housing issues of combatants, wartime military disableds, civilian war victims. The right to resolve the housing issue certainly is one of the basic rights of both fighters and military disabled and civilian disabled. Here one member of the law determines in a detailed and precise way how local self-government should help this category of population, which is precisely through that provision that at least 10% of the dwellings that are built must be directed right towards this category of population, but of course also that at least 10% of the resources that are allocated, for example, through reconstructions, through house repairs, through building houses, through loans, must also apply to this category of population. What I also want to point out is that for the first time this government, that our first time President Alexander Vukic is taking care of both soldiers and fighters, which is through an apartment-building programme under privileged conditions. Of course, these categories that have been treated with the Bill of Fighters, Wartime Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities and their families can also through the exercise of this right to resolve the housing issue. What I must also point out, and what seems to me somewhere to be the basic spirit in fact of this whole law, is the affirmation of values to the defense of sovereignty, territorial integrity and respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. No one better than soldiers and fighters knows what it means to respect and fight for their country, respect its territorial integrity and sovereignty. For the first time, this bill included fighters who were involved in the defence of the country, in the framework of the SFRY Armed Forces, at the time it was the JNA, involved in the defence of the country, involved territorial integrity and sovereignty of the SFRY until 27 April, or until 19 May. For the first time, this bill also mentions fighters who have defended territorial integrity and sovereignty since the 1990s and 1999s. It was 20 years since those who exercised power, and feared those who gave their lives and laid down on the altar of the land. That time has passed, that time will never happen again because President Aleksandar Vukic is at the head of the state and because his idea is to remember and honor all those who have given their lives to their country in the honorable fight against NATO aggressors. His idea is to remember those dead soldiers. Of course, its policy is a policy of peace, stability and future security policy finds children in the safe Republic of Serbia. Of course, I must also point out on 24 March 1999 when our soldiers at KIM in Paštrik and Kosharam were heroically defending themselves and defending the invasion from Albania of the land troops on the territory of the Republic of Serbia which, of course, was then supported by NATO's pact. I must point out that NATO's pact bombed the SRJ without the UN Council's approval. About 2,000 civilians, including 79 children, were injured in NATO bombings. None of the victims, none of the dead, none of the fighters who survived the fight in 1999 must be forgotten. That's why in the 20th year of the NATO aggression marking, on March 24, 1999, they walked side by side with other soldiers in Nis. I must also point out that by the time we arrived at the power of the SNS and our President, Aleksandr Vukic, no one thought of marking the day of memory of all those exiled from Croatia in the action "Storm", also a criminal action when in a column 600km from Knin to Belgrade, most of them were evicted by all Serbian non-emergents, women, children and old people. I must also point out that the Nobel laureate pointed out that he had seen Serbia as a full house full of orphans. I must stress that at the end of the 20th century Serbia was the country that had the most exiled and exiled population from civil wars in other areas, as well as our people from KIM. Along with the military with KIM unfortunately, 250,000 Serbs left in that refugee column seeking salvation for their heads from terrorists and from those who today declare so-called. Kosovo and Metohija. I must also point out, of course, that our President Alexander Vukic remembers those others who gave great credit in the fight against anti-fascism and showed this when marking the 75th anniversary of the village of Pranjana in Gornji Milanovac, when the army in the country saved 500 American pilots who were otherwise attacked. Of course, Serbia is the heritage of anti-fascism, that Serbia belongs to that people, the anti-fascist people, and that, of course, one of the four countries in the world that gave the greatest victims of freedom in World War II. Of course, we must never forget that, that we must mark that for all the fighters, all the wounded, all the disabled, all the civilian victims of the war, we must make full use of the rights possible. SNS policy is a policy of the future, peace policy, stability policy, economic prosperity policy, a policy of opening new factories, new jobs to keep our children alive. When it comes to the second law, which is the bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling, that is where I must highlight its two characteristics. The first feature of it is to prevent games of chance, when it comes to young, or regulation of distances, at which location there should be one object for game-making, it is 100 meters away from each other, as well as the regulation that from the school facility these objects dealing with gambling must be at least 200 meters away. Also, I must stress that this law is important from the aspect of protecting those most vulnerable and most vulnerable, which are persons with disabilities, these are persons with social protection. It's this bill of law, and in collaboration with NGOs and disability associations, you've accepted the proposal that 40% of gambling revenues are just meant for these organisations. I must also point out that this law also has an attractive element in it, that it has an element in countering the gray economy, and that anti-corruption element is almost best seen in the electronic connection between game editors and the gambling board. Also, I must point out that this anti-corruption element, or element of countering the gray economy, is also proposed that those toys that have machines be under video surveillance. Of course, this law has an anti-corruption element, and when it comes to delivering a report from Serbia's state lottery, the gambling administration, which is that Serbia's state lottery is obliged to submit revenue reports, every fifth of the month for the previous month. At the time of the yellow tycoon company, it happened that just from the state lottery some funds, who knows which way to go for some research that no one needed. We're doing all of this to make the economy even better than it is now, and she and she are on a very envious level. Serbia is 44th in the world according to its political, economic and military power. We must never forget that. As far as the agreement is concerned, I would say, there are 26, there would be one basic thread that brings together all these agreements, which is that the Republic of Serbia today is a very important partner in the negotiations and a very important partner in the world when it comes to agreements, agreements whose interest is in raising and further progress, the economic development of the Republic of Serbia and in all areas. In areas of agriculture, in areas of environmental protection, in areas of water protection, in areas of industry and technology, in areas of social protection. Of course, the Republic of Serbia today, thanks to Alexander Vukic's policy, has friends both in the east and in the west and among the large and among the small countries, because the interest of our president and SNS Serbia is first in our children's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72286	Thank you, colleague Jevtović Vukojičić. Since there are no more registered representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups for the word, we are moving to the order of MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72287	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen present, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have been dealing with the theme of gambling and the need to adopt new legislation on this field since the start of the mandate. We believe that it is not good for this topic to be treated as a technical issue that is regulated in a way that is arranged to protect the organizers, players, the bearers of this business and, to some extent, only citizens. We believe this is an issue that has an extremely profound meaning for each individual but also for society in general. The game of happiness, i.e., the cubes in all the sacred books are actually the work of the devil, and they represent in themselves a monster, representing something that destroys an individual. Unfortunately, modern society has succumbed to this challenge, first of all, from financial and material interests in most countries legalized this activity, with all the negative consequences we have for citizens, especially for young generations. That is why we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party believe that we need to approach this issue thoroughly, essentially, considering it from both ethical and all aspects, the interests of this society and the whole community. This would mean the need to adopt a brand-new law which, in our opinion, in version a) would completely ban gambling in this country, which would not be the firstborn. There are countries in ours and in a wider environment that have banned strict gambling and certainly are not losing anything. On the contrary, they have shown a higher degree of awareness of the protection of their citizens, especially our youth, or our future. In case it is not possible to adopt such a regulation in variant b, it would also be acceptable for us to adopt some kind of gambling, gambling and other gambling facilities, where in fact these facilities would be positioned outside the inhabited areas and whoever wants to play in that way, gamble, bet on some finely organised and let them visit those isolated places, because what is harmful must be or should be eliminated and if that is not possible, then it should certainly be isolated. But as long as there is no will and strength to do so, we will insist on this and both publicly and in parliament on other occasions. As far as legal regulations are concerned, what I find very important is the question that we have also updated, the issue of the victims in Strpci, the abducted Bosniaks in Strpci, the kidnapped Bosniaks in the north, the question of the victims in Kukurovici, Priboj and others who were killed in individual crimes, during the 1990s, and the day after that, we have 27 years in Strpci since the event. A few months ago, we had in the North, so we're marking, we're approaching three decades, and it hasn't shown our will and consciousness that people who were citizens of this country, the country where there was no war, they've been kidnapped, the truth of what it looks like from the Serbian paramilitary formations behind the Drina, but for now we have very minimal effects of various investigations, but if all this was going on for so long, what would be a minimum of piety by the state and the whole society, is that families of these victims are recognised the status of civilian victims of war, regardless of what the perpetrators of another country are and whatever this country was then not at war. It's something that we need to do for the overall recovery of our relationship, three decades almost behind us, but I think it's important if we want our future to be better than the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72288	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72289	Thank you very much. I'll be in touch. So this was a diversion during the break. So I'm going to look back at 12 points on this law. I'll start with those immaterial, non-financial pardons, requests from a fighter and a war participant. The first thing they want is the right of a fighter to military honor in the event of death, which is not contained in the Bill's proposal, although State Secretary Neric in the break just pointed out that this is being resolved by another law. So, a death fighter has the right to military honors that meet the rules of military honors of a dead fighter who brings in a competent minister for the affairs of martial law enforcement. The law did not foresee military honors in this case, this law, which is otherwise a practice in many countries in the world. Secondly, it is also non-financial to add a new member of 31a -- a foreigner who meets the conditions provided for in Article 5 of this law, has the right to fight for the interests of our country to gain the right to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. So if we have athletes, who come to compete in our professional clubs and get citizenship, if they are to participate in the team, I see no reason why the fighters who came from the side, helped our war units, participated in the fights, could not get the status of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Third, to add a new member of 24a, that the family of the dead fighter, fighter and wartime disabled, as well as members of their families, regardless of military or civil health insurance, exercise the right to free treatment and priority in the treatment of military medical institutions. Why wouldn't the mother or wife of the dead fighter have the right to prioritize and treat the VMA for free? Furthermore, amendment number 9 that these rights also apply to those involved in the territory of the land security zone from 23 March 2001 to 30 June 2001, when there were also armed conflicts and to apply the provisions of this law accordingly. Furthermore, Amendment 8 to ensure that military people with disabilities from the first to the seventh groups and children of family disabled persons exercise the right to a child's allowance in accordance with the Regulation on the child's addition of military disabled persons and children to family disability users, which is brought by the competent minister for the affairs of martial law. Therefore, children of a military disabled person and their parent suffer certain mental pains and may not be the same amount of supplement for someone with 100% disability and someone with 50% or less disability. Also, a question that has already been raised by General Delic, and he is a proven friend of the fighters and war commander, which is a question to add a new Article 7a - proven deserters are forbidden to perform any public function. Those who have passed certain military courts and become proven deserters should not be allowed to become presidents of the republic and commander-in-chiefs, because if they did not participate as soldiers in the defence of the country, how will they, as top commanders, participate in the defence of the country? Furthermore, there needs to be a basis for these fighting, disability and other fees, which are prescribed by these laws not to be a minimum pension, but to be the amount of the average monthly income without taxes and contributions in the Republic of Serbia. Another fundamental proposal, that is, that all contributions under this law cannot be treated as social benefits, but also as a national recognition in the financial context. What does that mean if you have two fighters who are the same degree of disability and because they have different social status they get different responsibilities, or one of them may not have the right to any dispensation? Perhaps it would be desirable if I had a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72290	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72291	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, gambling and gambling are a safe way to get nothing for something. Gamblers go into gambling games and into gambling to win other people's money, but mostly lose their own. In doing so, I know an exception, I know a man who certainly gets lucky games. His name is Gjorge Vukadinovic. So here's the photograph, him and Boris Tadic, this close. During the government of Boris Tadic, no matter what he didn't buy the tickets, he didn't bet, he didn't spend anything, he didn't throw the dice, and the gamble was best thrown when it was rejected, but he didn't need any dice, no cards, no lottery, no luckys, no ticket, mostly $2,400,000, that was 30,000 euros. That year, Boris Tadic and Djordje Vukadinovic managed to push the lottery down. So, "Lutrija Srbija" that year, it was minus, believe it or not, although we know that the gambling director mostly pre-books 50% of the payment. As for fighters, war doesn't start fighters, but politicians and politicians always owe fighters, because I repeat, warriors, fighters and soldiers don't start war, they mostly die. In World War I, Serbia lost 1,264,000 lives. The disability was 1.551,000. If we hadn't entered World War I and World War II today, we might have been like the English, who lost 0.8% of the population in World War II, and the Serbs who dragged them into the war lost 15%. Ladies and gentlemen, this Dusan Teodorovic, a great hero 21 years ago, his obligation during the aggression was a lecture at the university, and that was a lot for him, so he fled to America. This is the second hero, named Sergei Trifunovic, who complained from the minister to the minister until he defected to the aggressor side, i.e. To America. Here he is today, the great hero, and he's naked with Ivan Ivanovic, and I don't know why, since they're holding onto their breasts, I don't know why the young people call them two tits. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we have more heroes. This is a hero who smokes thympuss that costs 1,500 euros a month. His name is Jeremic. During the aggression, the father, Misko, sent him, otherwise Slobin's director of Southpetrol, seems to me, sent him to London, so the kid studied, although he didn't learn the First Law, there with that Aloyz, what was called, made later multimillion-dollar businesses with that relationship, with Patrick Ho. That's the hero. And this is Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Gilas. Dragan Djilas, a miracle in 1999, started a company in Prague, and Bosko Obradovic had very important jobs to launch the magazine of Ljotic's Dvora. So these are the heroes. Unlike these heroes, this is Tibor Cerna, Hungarian from Fatty, 55kg, soldier for 20 years, dead in Kosharam. His final words were: “For this land it is worth dying for. ” This is him. His monument was discovered only in 2017. He died in 1999, in Kosharam, here somewhere near this trench that was digging where he was photographed. This is his scarf, red, which they wore around their hands to distinguish from enemy soldiers. It contains four Ss and says "Serbia". So his last words were: “This land is to die. ” Why did I show you this? For a simple reason to show how loyal the villagers are, and how many of these yellow unfortunates have been sold. You must, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we politicians must no longer go into wars lightly, we no longer have people to lose, but we must pay our respects to the disabled. They did not go there with their own will, but went with the will of politicians who did not assess the international situation well enough, in my opinion, and he is an international policy as a climate, if you do not respect it sometimes you can also get wet. Mostly, whether it is fair or unfair, they entered the war by deciding politicians. What I have shown you, Tibora Cern, “For this country worth dying for,” his message today would be “For this country worth living” and you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, would see the difference between nothing and a hero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72292	The People's Messenger Joseph Broz has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72293	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister with fellow Members and honourable fellow Members, is now on the agenda, in addition to the other laws, the Bill of Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities, War and members of their families, and I want to talk about it. I think it was high time for this law to be passed and, in that sense, I welcome the activities of the government and the ministry that have long and thoroughly prepared this law. We know that the previous law was passed in 2004, and this law did not cover all rights of fighters, wartime, military and civilian invalids, or their families. The law did not cover fighters from the 1990s or 1999s, or NATO aggression at all. This law finally corrects this injustice and what is most important, since nearly three decades of Serbia will have one law in this area, we can say a roof law that regulates the rights of all fighters, wartime disableds, civil invalid wars and their families from all wars, starting from World War II to NATO bombing. So far, this matter has been regulated by many regulations since the time of the SFRY, then by the regulations of the Republic of Serbia since the 1990s, as well as by numerous regulations by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, even by the province's regulations. The last law, as I said, was passed in 2004. What is important for every free country is that even when wars end, they honor their victims, honor wartime disabled, war veterans, to honor the families of those who gave their lives for freedom. We can't today when many want to end our history, forget any name of the fighter and his merits, whether it's the anti-fascism fighters in World War II that we led against the fascist occupier together with our allies, whether they're combatants from the '90s. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that in the last decade. The famous Archibald Rice, a great Serbian friend, said Serbs are an extremely brave people, to win wars that lead to freedom, but when freedom comes Serbs forget the heroes who won those wars. In peace, we quickly forget the heroes who gave their lives or were badly wounded. Once we forgot their families, we forgot one great hero, Milunka Savic, who unfortunately ended her life in poverty. That's what happens to us after 2000 with the heroes of NATO aggression. We forgot heroes from Koshar, heroes who died in the 1990s in wars that led to Yugoslavia's collapse. This forgetfulness can lead us to a broken history, to a twist in historical facts, to the condemnation of a Serb people who only defended his territory and his people. In the last session, we also corrected an injustice by passing the Law on the Memorial Centre "Old Fair". Today this law is definitely correcting all historical mistakes made to all fighters. This law lays down a significant amount of rights of fighters and their families, wartime, civilian and military disabled, who are wounded due to wartime acts. I particularly think it is important that the law properly treats fighters from the 1990s wars and all those killed in NATO aggression. These heroes of the late 20th century died in the fight against a superior enemy, and those who were wounded at one point suffered a kind of social neglect because there was no political will in the earlier government to be killed in NATO aggression to declare themselves victims, let alone heroes. No one has ever been responsible for our victims, nor for the soldiers who were killed when they were withdrawn from Slovenia, nor for the Storm, nor for Račak, nor for the Koshars. That is why it is time for all our fighters and their families to repay ourselves in the right way by passing a law that will cover all their rights and we are doing so today. All categories of fighters, disabled and their families, fighters, military disabled, civilian disabled war, families of a fallen fighter, families of a military disabled and soldiers who died or died during the military deadline, families of a civilian disabled war and civilian victims of war have been protected. I also mention some of the rights that these categories will have under this law, noting that the scope of the rights is extended. This is primarily a combat supplement, family allowance, monthly income, cost of housing in social protection institutions, right to a special increased pension internship, personal disability, family disability, care allowance, childcare allowance, orthopedic supplement, health care, medical and technical assistance, banj-climate recovery, professional rehabilitation, disability allowance, monthly income, right to solve housing problems, priority of employment and natural right to a martial monument. For all forms of rights, criteria and coverage of persons from the category of wartime combatants, civilian disabled wars and their families have been developed. Since the laws were involved in fighting associations, I believe that they are satisfied with the bill and the state should meet the demands of the fighters, because who will defend us in the future, if we do not respect fighters from the past, liberators of wars and fighting. I think these rights and the coverage of the 90s and NATO fighters are well looked at in the law, but I also cannot understand some opposition MPs who say the law should be postponed. No, I don't. After all these years, the law needs to be passed. If there are any problems that will eventually arise there are parliamentary issues, there are amendments and there is an agreement that could later be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72294	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jevtic, has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72295	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing a set of very important laws that clearly show a high degree of responsibility for the government of the Republic of Serbia. As someone who is a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Water and Forestry, I will base myself on two draft laws relating to the area of agriculture. The first draft law I will talk about is confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the veterinary field. This Agreement was signed in Ankara on 7 May 2018, and was created out of the desire to facilitate the transport of animals, products of animal origin, to prevent the introduction of infectious diseases, infectious animals, of course, and to the health of non-secured products of animal origin. The objectives of the agreement are imports, exports, transport of animals and products of animal origin and the objectives of which show that such exports can be made, imports shall be carried out only if they are carried out, or where the prescribed conditions required by the countries signatories of this Agreement are met. The competent authorities of the signatories are about to exchange forms of veterinary sanitary health assurances, i.e. a certificate that will just follow shipments when importing and exporting to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey. The beliefs must also be made in Serbian, Turkish and English. What I would like to point out in this agreement is a mechanism that will be activated in the event that infectious diseases occur, i.e. they are diagnosed in the territory of one of the signatories and how this mechanism will, of course, be activated is that the competent authorities of the country where a particular disease, zoonose disease, which is otherwise characteristic that animals can be sick, and human beings, of course, will activate the mechanism at that time, i.e. to prevent the consequences that can have a very big impact on people in Serbia, or Turkey. The second bill I will discuss is a confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which refers precisely to the area of plant quarantine and plant protection. The agreement was drawn up in Baku on 21 May 2018, and it was created for reasons because the parties in the agreement recognized the need for co-operation in the area of preventing the introduction and spread of plant diseases, pests and, of course, the expansion and development of trade relations between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. As regards the provisions of this Agreement, they relate to all regulated products, including the country, plants transported with soil and all harmful organisms, objects or materials which may allow reproduction, including consignments of course representing a gift or intended for scientific purposes. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What I would point out in this Agreement are obligations under national law, which shall be examined in implementation, i.e. in the following obligations made by those Members, signatories of the Agreement. In this case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. As regards the obligation, these are the implementation of the necessary measures to prevent the introduction of these quarantine pests during imports and exports and transit, the exchange of regulations and guides governing plant quarantine measures and plant protection, the exchange of information on scientific and research topics in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection, the testing of regulated products by selection in manufacturing and storage facilities, the mutual business travel of experts in order to promote incentives for scientific innovation and relevant experiences, the provision of mutual scientific, technical and other assistance, and that, in the event of doubts about the validity of the phytosanitary certification, the phytosanitary certificate planned for re-export or information listed therein, the national organisation has issued a certificate, it will have to provide additional or specific information on the other side. Both of the laws I spoke of in the area of agriculture, of course, show a very high responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resord Ministry, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, precisely for the reasons I mentioned earlier, because of all of the damages that can occur, the zoonoses mentioned earlier or diseases that are common to both animals and humans. In my previous presentations, I have already praised the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, but it is not a waste to repeat, that there has never been a larger budget for agriculture, that the largest part of the incentive section has never been given for both young people and rural areas and southeastern Serbia, etc. Unlike those who have recently produced a variety of films, documentary films, in which our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who do not have some clear political plans, political goals, which are the alibi of some boycott somewhere for not having any support, all those people whose reactions, i.e. some of whose mechanisms I have remained baffled and as a mother, for insulting the family, disdaining the family. I want to say that Serbia is making progress, that my Vrnjačka Banja is a simple environment that shows how far the Republic of Serbia is progressing and, as I say, with the help of responsible young leadership, which had heard, which animated, which attracted certain investors, so now Vrnjačka Banja can rise from more high-class hotels. It is this very Vranjska Banja and the Republic of Serbia, which has invested in education and here it is seen in agriculture, infrastructure, health care, meaning everything that is crucial to one country. We can also boast of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the work of the president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. And what I hope is that a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will recognise this work and this responsible policy and that on 26 April we will win and we will admit that this is one responsible policy, which will recognise and, of course, will reward one such work and some programmes planned for Serbia from 2020 to 2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72296	Thank you, colleague Jevtic. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72297	Thank you, Your Honor. As you have heard, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have spoken here many times about the Law on Games of Happiness, bookshops and casinos, and that it is one of the greatest monsters our society faces. These data that have been presented today about a million and a half people who have become passive game users are truly worrying and warning. That's why we think the best solution is to ban any kind of gambling organization, because it's the only way to save society from all monsters, and even from this monster that's at the level of this epidemic of "the crown of the virus," because it's simply, and it's destroying not only an individual, but the entire cell of family, society and ultimately destroying an entire people. What we have on the ground, and what we have met with, is still present that in addition to these legal bookmakers and casinos, we still have a large number of illegal bookshops and casinos that work, and that is something that the state authorities would really have to deal with, because besides being allowed and registered over 2,000 bookshops and casinos, a minimum of several hundred more, if not 1,000, works in almost all parts of the state. And, of course, that part about the distance of bookies and casinos from educational institutions must be much larger, it must be much more significant. Also, this provision that if a new casino or bookshop is established, that it must be 100 metres away from the existing one, I think it is too late, because right now all the markets are obsessed with gambling, that all of the most important places of youth gathering are already occupied by bookmakers and casinos, and that they should work to reduce their number, to lower their number, or to remove them from those places that are really the busiest and where young people, along with all their flashes and other ads, are exposed to such challenges as betting and gambling. Of course, we're all saying this because, as a political party, we have often spoken and initiated concrete actions, petitions of citizens, that from educational institutions, from religious facilities, from other institutions where children, student populations, students and students are most important, are far from bookshops and casinos. This has not resulted in the most favourable things to be done, that is, those demands have not yet been made by the majority in this House to make betting and gambling bans as forbidden in most of the most developed countries of the world. So it would be very important to think that at least they are isolated, as here every viral epidemic is isolated if we want to survive as a nation, if we want to build a bright future with healthy generations, generations that are not exposed to any virus, especially these viruses that destroy and what generations of their predecessors have built for them, but that destroys what they should, these new generations, should be left to their future heirs, or offspring. That is why it is still very important to think further about opportunities and to prepare our society as a whole to ban any betting, i.e. bookshops, casinos, gambling, gambling, gambling, one specific ban on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as it has been done in a large number of countries in the world, and here in our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72298	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72299	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, as our authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group has pointed out, we will support a set of laws we are discussing. My focus of discussion will be on the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Fighters. Dear Minister Djordjevic, I must point out the great satisfaction and give on behalf of our parliamentary group unreserved support for the normation of the law, because you have contributed to something that has not been done so far, and it is a codification in the field of martial law enforcement, civil invalid wars, which has so far been done with a number of different regulations, and which have not been sufficiently harmonised, so that we have had one, per se, a forest of regulations that is not adequately applied gave those effects that relate to the protection of those to whom this protection must be provided. As a result, this bill leads to something that represents one complete systematization. And when it comes to norming, I think you've both nomotechnically and technically brought the words of the law to one level that can be said that in a practical sense it can produce the best possible application. What is the message of this law and what citizens should know is the lasting value of fighting for the defence, independence and sovereignty of the constitutional order of the country, and in this sense both the material and the social position of all participants in the Liberation Wars, and that of the money in amounts that are percentageally defined in relation to net earnings in the Republic of Serbia without taxes and contributions. So it's something that's just, on the one hand, just, on the other hand, legal, because it's legal by the very fact that we're standardizing it the way you suggest it, and you're enjoying our support unquestionably. To those who have both their lives and all that they have done for Serbia's independence, for constitutional order, for the system, for the ideal of freedom, we have done in some way to repay ourselves by passing this law. That's why you have maximum support. Given that I do not want to, from the legal profession, or from the point of view of my profession to specifically analyse the provisions of the law, I just have to point out that this is a codification which, for example, is codification in the legislative sense of words. Thank you. Dear Minister Mali, when it comes to the draft law on gambling, we can in some ways agree with certain fears that gambling is something that can involve a monster, which can mean certain social anomalies that cause some consequences, but on the other hand we cannot avoid facts that cannot be doubted. First of all, it is about today's presence of the growth of the gambling market, fortunately with the parallel growth of technology in this area. It's one component of a huge system of money crafts. It is a huge system in which certain revenues are realised, but what you have done and what is for every kind of support is that you have made it impossible for game directors to get lucky, literally by norming, as you have done in this law, to prevent anything that involves crossing the boundaries of luxuriant, but to bring down what includes imperial norms, which means the obligation for all gamemakers to comply with those obligations that you have provided for this law. What is good is that our legislation is harmonised in this respect with EU legislation, and the effects of this law are undoubtedly a more advanced system of surveillance, monitoring traffic achieved by electronic means and certainly the introduction of legal certainty. However, on behalf of the parliamentary group, dear Minister Mali, I would like to make a very well-intentioned suggestion, given that we have not responded to the amendments. Since a number of gambling directors have already entered into the process of certain adaptations to these provisions of the law, but they have not been able to do so, I ask you to consider applying the law as follows, which is that the law enters into force within eight days of the day of publication, and that its application begins 15 months from the date of entry into force. Why? Because that deadline is objectively sufficient to provide conditions for the application of those provisions of this law that you have proposed, and given that it is the conditions which have aspects and financial, and organisational, and technical criteria, which must be met so that the editors can organise gambling, it is indeed fair and fair for them to move the deadlines of application of the law and thus make the law acceptable and for those who are not ready at this point, in any sense, to adapt to the resources they have, because they have yet to acquire them. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72300	Thank you. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72301	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, I would like to say something about the history of the Association of War and Peacetime Military Disabilities of Serbia founded on 28 October 1919. It was founded by wartime invalids from the First World War, and King Alexander gave it to the Plaque Association in Sava Square where the House of War invalids was later built. On October 18, 1945, military people from World War II joined the assembly of the Association, and in 1995 a decision was made to join both military and peacetime disabled from the 1990s wars. The name of the association was then added a word of peacetime and since then the term – War and Peacetime Military Disabilities of Serbia, which it carries today. The Association of War and Military Disabilities is the only association of wartime people from Serbia who are a member of the World Veterans Federation and is the oldest veteran association in Serbia. Of all the associations, only the Red Cross is older. Last year it marked 100 years of the association. The Ceremony Academy in the House of the Army, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary, was held under the name "Always in the Machine". It was founded by the disabled of World War I. Today, there are the most war cripples in the '90s. It's a shame how they treated people with disabilities after World War I, and it's a shame how the state treated war fighters in the '90s. Fighters who have been fed up with humanity and heroism have given part of themselves, remaining disabled for their country and their people. It should be mentioned that the Association of Fighters has prevented the admission of U.K. veterans into the World Veterans Organisation. This is a very complex area and a question, because a people who forget their history will certainly not go well in the future. The Serbian people have always reacted to injustice, even when it was at his expense and has always been at the front of the world in the fight for freedom, against fascism, imperialism. We are witnessing double standards in international politics. For example, the Dutch authorities refused to hand over their time to German Emperor Wilhelm, who was in World War I, along with Austrian Emperor Franco Joseph, to the death of many Serbs, and in recent history they were against the start of Serbia and the EU negotiations until they were arrested and all those on the UN tribunal's list were delivered. Whether it's just or unfair, it's the world we live in. This is a big day, because the 23 fighting organisations' proposals are fulfilled by this law. This law addresses the problems of non-compliance with the rules in the field of martial law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the laws were passed before the Republic of Serbia became an independent state. There are a number of regulations that regulate this matter. However, there is both the obsolescence and excellency of certain provisions, rules in the field of martial law and the protection of civilians with disabilities of war, given the conditions that existed at the time of their adoption and compliance with the current conditions. In particular, the existence of provisions governing the rights of fighters from armed conflicts in the 1990s and 1999s was problematic. This adoption of the law solves decades of problems for people who fought bravely and defended their country. It's a picture of how we treat veterans, wartime and military people, and it's a picture of us talking about respecting ourselves and our own country and our own people. Serbia has never been an aggressor, and the Serbian people have never waged conquest wars, but have always sacrificed themselves, perhaps even more than they should have. The government wants to correct the injustice that has been done to our fighters, and for the first time, rules in the field of martial law have been harmonised for the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. "Happy are the peoples who have a boring history," Monteskje said. That's not the case with us, because unfortunately our house is at the intersection. In war resolve, defiance in victory, and in peace generosity. This law is not only the goodwill of the government, but our duty to correct the wrong done. In voting day, with pleasure, I will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72302	Thank you. The word is Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72303	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, I will talk about the bill on rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil disabled war and members of their families. This bill for the first time sets out the area of martial law and civil disability protection for Serbia for the first time, aligning those rules with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, while codifying all regulations in this area. There has been an idea since earlier that legislation in this area should be regulated by one regulation. By putting this bill on the agenda of the National Assembly, the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown a high degree of maturity, taking care of its war heroes. The bill essentially and legally covers all the essential elements and criteria for the categorisation of users of rights, types of rights and greater protection of these groups of citizens. The citizens we're talking about are fighters, military people with disabilities, civilian people with disabilities, and members of their families. Through the legal protection of these categories of citizens, there is a lasting value of fighting for the defence of independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the country. The law contains solutions both for the future and for events in the near and distant past related to war and armed action in peace. The freedom tradition of the Serbian people is expensively paid for by the lives of our citizens. The freed tradition of the Serb people in many stands throughout Serbia is spoken of by Prof. Predrag Markovic, who has passed on his selfless knowledge to younger generations, because in a constant race for time and profit, which most of mankind today is slaved to, we must preserve our identity for future generations to come. Serbia has never waged conquest wars and has always been an aggressor, but has always waged Liberation Wars. Those who waged these liberating wars gave their lives, their health, their loved ones, so that we might live in freedom. When they fought for their country, they did not do it for politics, but for the love of the country. I will quote First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. Quoting: “The images of how we treat veterans, wartime and military people, are pictures of which we speak and how much we respect ourselves and our own country and our own people. ” He also stressed that the Serbian people have always reacted to injustice, even when it was to his harm and that it was always in the front lines in the fight for freedom against fascism and imperialism. I am taking this opportunity to congratulate Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic on giving him the Hilandar Monument of Virtue and Help during the restoration of the monastery, as well as on the merits of protecting state and national interests, which he received during his stay in Thessaloniki, where he participated in a ministerial meeting. At the end of his visit to Thessaloniki, Minister Ivica Dacic also visited Serbia's Zeitinlik military cemetery, where he laid his wreath and once again bowed down to the shadows of Serb soldiers who died during a breakthrough in the Thessaloniki front. He was welcomed at the cemetery by famous Uncle Djordje Mihajlovic, who has been caring for the humongs of Serbian heroes for decades. First Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic pledged that the ministry would help him to join Serbian citizenship after an accelerated procedure and issue a passport. The bill we are discussing today contains new solutions and a significant number of amendments to the implementation of basic material and legal provisions, which are governed by the conditions for the exercise of rights in this area. Certain concepts and procedures for the exercise of rights have been specified, as well as when they cease. Evidence, conditions for the use of rights, unique data records, and supervision of the enforcement of this law. The law defines which users whose rights are being arranged, and these are fighters, wartime peacetime military disableds, civilian wartimes, members of the families of fallen fighters, dead military peoples, persons who died or died in the military and in peace, dead civilian wartimes and civilian war victims. Article 2 of this Act stipulates that the rights laid down by this law are based on the principle of compensation for damages and on the principle of national recognition. This law provides for a new category of users that did not exist under current regulations, which were fighters who participated in the armed actions of the 1990s, in the war of 1999. New rights are also prescribed for this user category. In addition to the law of the prescribed rights, municipalities, the city, or the AP, the persons referred to in the first Article of this Act may establish other rights, e.g. discount on utility services, free or privileged driving in public local transport, free parking, children's right to free textbooks and other benefits, i.e. to establish a greater scope of rights than the rights provided for by this law, provided that it provides resources for those purposes in its budget. Wars have passed, many have been maimed, crippled young men defending their country with their hearts and souls without doubt. We remember only heroes from Koshar and many other heroes who fought in the territory of AP KIM, as well as on the territory of the ex Yugoslavia, who defended their country, by the reputation of their ancestors gave their hands, eyes, and some of the most valuable, their lives. Their contribution to the land in which we live today in freedom is immeasurable. This social category of people should therefore be highly respected and respected on the social scale. They saw these people and witnessed various war horrors, and only their children and loved ones wanted to provide a better, safer and free future. So let us be proud of our heroes both in war and in peace, but they too should be proud of their own Serbia who thinks of them. This law is exactly what we do, we think of them, and we provide them with the rights to a man's life. That is why fellow MPs, in voting day, each of us needs to vote in favour of this law, and the SPS parliamentary group will certainly do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72304	Thank you. The word is Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72305	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, we are talking today about a very important set of laws, an agreement that will lead to the strengthening of the security, anti-corruption, military and economic branches in our country by deepening and improving international co-operation. When it comes to the proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum of understanding on co-operation in the fight against corruption, as part of the Southeast European Anti-corruption Initiative with the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements, we see that the validity of the memorandum has been extended indefinitely because the need for regional co-operation in the fight against corruption has been recognised. Also, an agreement on security co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, concluded in October 2019, confirms the mutual need to regulate co-operation in the fight against criminal acts, particularly in connection with terrorism, organised crime, trafficking in human beings, drugs and similar substances. The challenges we face go beyond the frameworks of states, regions and continents. I will list only a few, terrorism and extremism, organised crime, illegal migration, human trafficking, economic uncertainty. I believe that these interrelated problems can only be effectively solved by greater interaction, better coordination and co-operation aimed at achieving results. It is necessary to exchange information, experience, strategy, plans. This in turn strengthens stability and security in the region, which is in the interest of both the region and the international community. In the face of these challenges, Serbia is responsibly and solidly developing co-operation at all levels, on the regional, European and global agenda, with all friends and partners. Over the last year in Serbia, large-scale legislative activity has been carried out and great efforts are being made to improve the application of the rules in practice and the co-operation of all participants in the anti-terrorism financing system. Reforms have also been carried out at the institutional level and new institutions have been formed, such as the gambling administration, and an important role in the implementation of the refomers in line with FATFA and Manival recommendations has also been played by the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. As a result of activities implementing the plan since June 2019, it has been announced that Serbia is no longer on the grey list of countries with strategic shortcomings in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Terrorist organisations also earn money from drug trafficking or people, in their ranks most often have experts in new communication technologies for further networking and recruitment of new members. So I want to point out that there is a huge role in preventing and detecting these actions right now, and I want to congratulate you on a series of actions in which you have helped detect criminal networks. At the end of 2018, the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, as part of the Anti-Terrorism Service, also established the Department for Preventing the Abuse of Public Sources and the Internet, allowing the conduct of an online investigation aimed at providing evidence for the purposes of criminal prosecution of the perpetrators of this crime. When it comes to corruption and crime, I must remind the citizens of Serbia that Vuk Jeremic, a favorite of Serbian President Boris Tadic at the time, spent nearly $8m on his NGO CIRST, which is characterized by the intransparency of activity, huge sums from the companies he collaborated with while he was a minister and not true about the sources of financing his campaign. He's involved in international corruption and crime and the humiliation of our country. For the last election campaign, over 7.5m euros were paid to his consulting firm's accounts. It would really be fair for criminals like this to be put under investigation until all the crimes they've committed are determined. The proposed Law confirming a military framework agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey contributes to further raising the system of international military co-operation, defence and improving the operational functions and capabilities of the Serbian Army. We can now, indeed, say that the Serbian Army is fully in control of Serbian territory, safeguards security and will never allow any political instability to flow into our territory. Serbia's role is to support peace, stability and development in the Balkans. Our government has regained respect, respect and honour for Serbia. We have a government headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic who is seriously planning and building better and better-looking Serbia in the long term. With these agreements, Serbia creates a good environment, peaceful and solidarity between the environment and neighbours based on mutual integration and through the necessary assistance. So, above all, our government is making these agreements potentiate friendly relations, and that's what we need in the further Euro-integration of our country. Liaison with countries such as the Republic of Turkey and co-operation with the countries will further accelerate co-operation in other areas, such as economy, finance, traffic and infrastructure, and, above all, co-operation in the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking, weapons, radioactive materials. In all terms, it contributes to raising the quality of life of citizens in a more synchronised system of joint combat. Today we have a president of Serbia who represents our country in the best possible way, so he has raised our reputation in the world and that more and more investors who see our country as an ambience are eligible for new investments. This government has done ten times as much as others. Thousands of new jobs have been opened, public debt has fallen to 47% and there is expected to be further decline, pensions and wages increasing, in every sphere of society there is an improvement and progress. I congratulate you on the selfless effort and the pawning and invite colleagues and colleagues to support all proposed laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72306	Thank you. People's MP, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72307	Dear presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs. Today, we have important laws and agreements that the National Assembly should adopt and ratify. I will refer to the Bill of Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of Work and members of their families and to a set of agreements in the field of foreign policy which our Government has concluded with several different states. I want to thank the government and the Ministry of Labour and Combat Protection for making great efforts to prepare a law on the rights of fighters, because there was a great legal gap, and above all a great injustice against the 90s and fighters who defended Serbia from NATO aggression. So far, no law has included members of the SRJ, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, who have performed military or other duties in the armed action taken during the peace in order to defend sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the SRJ, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro or Serbia since 27 April 1992. The second category that was not covered is members of the SRJ armed forces who performed military duties or other duties in connection with military targets during NATO aggression at the SRJ from 24 March to 26 June 1999. Both of these categories are now getting fighter status for the first time, thus gaining the right to use martial law under this law. That applies to their families, too. Unfortunately, from 2000 until last year when we gave public recognition to the heroes from Koshar, it was said little, as if we were to blame for being completely unfounded by international law attacked by 19 NATO states. Another category of victims was first covered this way, and these are the victims of an attack in diplomatic and consular representations considered by this law a civilian victim and a civilian disabled war. For me, who am from Kosovo and Metohija, it is important that persons also disappear in the course of acts of war, as a result of the abuse or deprivement of freedom by the enemy or from the residual war material, will now be considered civilian victims. The war, and according to this categorization, will be able to exercise certain rights under this law. This is very important, because we have families over a thousand missing persons who now lack adequate legal protection. For missing persons, a very dedicated search by the Government's Missing Persons Commission, which has contributed greatly to the discovery of the way they disappeared and where they disappeared, what happened to them. I can't help but mention the "yellow house". I would like to commend the legal solutions relating to the coverage of all categories of fighters, disabled and their families, as well as the scope of the law provided for for for all categories of war, military and civilian invalids of war and their families. In the end, what's most important, it's all regulated by one system law. When it comes to agreements on the agenda, I will refer to a set of foreign policy agreements that strengthen bilateral relations with signatories countries, which is a confirmation of Serbia's successful, very dynamic foreign policy, led by Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, with the president of the state and the government. Confirming a protocol on setting a three-way border point between the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro and BiH create conditions for continuing negotiations and resolving an open border issue, i.e. improving bilateral relations with signatories countries. The trimmings are located in a place between Pljeva, Priboj and Tsajnice. By signing and adopting this Protocol, we will contribute to the stabilisation, as well as mutual respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, thus sending a good message that Western Balkan countries can resolve each issue independently with their own capacities. By adopting this protocol, we create the possibility for future generations, states of signatories, to move freely in accordance with international law, estimating peace as a supreme value. Serbia and BiH have traditionally friendly relations and co-operation, indicating a large number of agreements adopted. On the agenda, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Nicaragua on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports. The friendly relations of the two countries rest on respecting the principle of mixing the internal affairs of sovereign states, which, by respecting international law and the principle of territorial integrity of sovereign states and supporting the preservation of national interests. Nicaragua has not recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared state. He won't support the so-called membership. Kosovo into international organisations, such as Interpol, UNESCO and many others. Serbia and Nicaragua's mutual co-operation is a confirmation of successful and friendly diplomatic relations that have lasted 40 years and provide support to Serbia to continue dialogue as a way to overcome Belgrade and Pristina's problems. In addition to having good co-operation with Nicaragua in the field of foreign affairs and politics, there is potential for strengthening co-operation in the areas of economy, trade, trade in agriculture, defence and military co-operation, culture, etc. In addition to those mentioned on the agenda, the Agreement with Brazil, Slovakia, Montenegro, the United Arab Emirates, concerning the activity of the employment of certain family members, members of the diplomatic consular, military, administrative and technical staff. In modern conditions of life, we have an increasingly frequent phenomenon that spouses in many countries refuse to leave their jobs to follow their married or out - of - wedlock partner who is a member of a diplomatic mission abroad. The effects of the work of diplomatic and consular representatives in the case of separated families are undoubtedly less than the effect of those working in the environment of their families. The main objective of those agreements is to preserve a normal family life and keep the family together, with the satisfaction of professional and economic preconditions for the functioning of families of diplomatic and consular representatives. I would like to point out the importance of these agreements especially with Brazil, Nicaragua, Slovakia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, which did not recognise the unilaterally recognised so-called so-called. the state of Kosovo. The SPS parliamentary group, estimating the importance of all laws on the agenda, will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72308	The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72309	Thank you, Chairman. President, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have before us a very important bill that has been pending for more than 20 years and that in one unique and comprehensive way regulates the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil invalid wars and members of families of fallen and dead fighters, a procedure for the exercise of these rights, the use and termination of rights. This bill represents a kind of codification of the rules governing this area, since it combines matter previously regulated through 12 laws, four regulations, one decision, four protocols, four instructions, two agreements and one conclusion. At first, I believe that the law, at last, regulates the status of fighters in an undisputed way, categorizing them according to the time and territory of military engagement, regulates the status of a military invalid, civil invalid war and members of families of fallen and dead fighters. For the first time, there are as many as 25 rights that these people can exercise, plus rights that can be foreseen by acts of the authorities of the autonomous province, the city, or the municipality. In a clear way, it foresees that the rights paid in monthly amounts are of the appropriate basis, as well as specific conditions for the exercise of those rights. This way, I will look only at some newspapers that will interest citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's especially necessary to allocate the right to monthly income. This right represents the right to provide material protection for materially unsecured users of rights under this law. This right is now prescribed in different forms, in several laws in the field of martial law with different user circles and in different amounts – monthly income, cash aid, disability, basic cash compensation and exceptional cash compensation. Users who exercise this right according to current regulations are World War II fighters, as well as military people with disabilities, civil disability wars, family disabled people, family members of families of dead fighters. Since this right is exercised, those persons, if they are materially unsecured, during the time when they are materially unsecured, are entitled to monthly income, do not constitute a permanent form of protection, unlike personal and family disability, because they depend on the income of users and members of his household. Changes in household income may lead to an increase, reduction or loss of further use of this right. The basis for establishing this right is determined by the average monthly income in the Republic, without taxes and contributions, for a month preceding the month in which the law is exercised. The amount of the right shall be determined at a percentage amount of 70% of the base, if the user and members of his household make or do not make the income, and if they do – 40% of the base. If they're single, they belong to a 42% supplement of the base. As a new law, the right to a combat supplement is also prescribed. This is the right that belongs to a fighter who has established the status of a fighter under this law. It is recognised to a fighter over 60 years of age if he and his family members living in a household do not make tax revenues. It is also important to have the right to address housing needs, which is in fact the right to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions that a fighter, a member of a family of fallen fighters, wartime military disableds and peacetime military disableds, in accordance with the rules governing special conditions for the implementation of the Building of Apartments for Security Forces. The funds provided for addressing housing needs are provided in the budget of units of local self-government. It is also important to give priority to the employment priority provided for by this law, which gives priority to a specific category of the law when establishing a working relationship, provided that it meets the conditions for establishing a working relationship. For the first time, it is prescribed that the competent ministry shall keep a single record of the users of the rights under this law, open rights, members of the user's household, the income of the users and members of their household, and that the payment of monthly cash receipts shall be made on the basis of that unique record. These were just some newspaper of the proposed law aimed at regulating matter in this area by providing citizens with a lasting value of fighting to defend independence, sovereignty and constitutional order of the country. On this basis, the law contains solutions for both the future and the events that are in the near and distant past regarding wartime events and armed actions in peace. I must point out that these people have entrusted the state, us and future generations and that the state has a social and moral obligation to care for these people and that we are immensely grateful that veterans have fought whenever necessary for their country. Today, thanks to our President Aleksandar Vukic's policy, peace, dialogue and difficult negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, a policy for a better future for Serbian citizens and for the future of our children are under way. In voting day, I will support this law, as well as the sets of other laws and agreements that lie ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72310	The word is Daniel Stojadinovic. You have two minutes, if you want to use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72311	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, I will talk today about the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty (Climate Resistance and Irrigation Programme in Serbia, Phase I), between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In general, the negative impact of the climate, an outdated infrastructure has led the government of the Republic of Serbia to start improving, expanding and modernising irrigation infrastructure, as well as affecting the strengthening of the agri-food sector in Serbia. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was established to provide funding for specific projects in co-operation with the Finance Ministry, will invest in water upgrade and management. The programme includes the construction and recovery of critical irrigation infrastructure in three separate regions in Serbia -- Negotina as eastern, Svilajnci as central Serbia and Vojvodina as the northern part of Serbia. The project also includes the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Management, which includes "Serbia", so this is a good example of co-operation by the Serbian government, restoring ministries and local self-government. Rehabilitation of the outdated irrigation and water infrastructure system in Serbia is expected to contribute to water and energy consumption savings, will contribute to safer and more productive agricultural production, and we are also counting on a greater contribution to safety and competitiveness on the market and an increase in annual landline revenues, which is particularly important for the Svilajnac municipality. In Svilajnc, a new irrigation system runs 1,040 hectares, and will use both surface and underground water, meaning 330 hectares will be supplied from shallow wells, and the other 710 hectares will be drawn directly from the Resava River. The project also includes the construction of new pipelines for the distribution of water from wells and river operations to agricultural parcels. In any case, this is for the Svilian municipality of great importance and great strategic importance. So the Svilinac municipality itself is one agricultural area that has been dominated for decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72312	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72313	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Ministers, Mr. Zorana Djordjevic and Mr. Sinisa Mali, with associates, respected MPs, as regards the bill on the rights of combatants, civilian invalids of war and members of their families, unlike the previous authorities, who did not have enough hearing, will or ability to solve the problems of fighters, only this authority, led by the SNS, wants to correct the injustice against the wars of the 1990s, and these issues are regulated in a fairer manner. The government and the SNS consider that there is nothing more important than protecting citizens, who courageously responded to the state's call, when it was necessary to participate in the fight and give part of themselves in this struggle, and unhinderedly their lives. Unfortunately, the state's concern, in the earlier period for its fighters, was lagging behind, the fighters were forgotten, many treated them in a comparable way with demeaning, and the word patriotism, unfortunately even got a negative meaning. As if someone deliberately wanted to send a message that it was not wise to defend their country and how much wiser it was to avoid a military obligation, to hide somewhere or to flee from the country, so when it was over and gone, to go back, or to get out of a mouse hole, and to salt the minds of all those who stood on the defender of the homeland, especially those who were willing to give their lives and honor them. We, from the SNS, who know what country is and appreciate patriotism, as the greatest virtue, want to be re-esteemed and respected by every fighter and patriot and to correct forever the injustices of the last war fighters, and that their position, in society, is significantly improved. And, not only that, we want to introduce a new category of users by passing this law, which did not exist according to the rules so far, and these are the fighters of the 1990s and the participants of the war in 1999, who did not get physical damage. We would also like to introduce for them the right to a martial law, to a special retirement internship, to address housing needs, to the right to a fighting monument and to the legitimacy of a fighter, to have priority in employment and other privileges. It's the least they deserve. The law also prescribes new rules for other users, such as the right to family disability, family members of the deceased and civilian disabled war, the right to a disabled wartime invalid, who is 65 years old, the obligation of local self-government to make 10% of planned investment for the construction of apartments, to address the housing needs of military disabled people, an increased amount of disability by 25%, the right to free driving, etc. The adoption of this law will abolish 12 previous laws and provisions, which have so far been regulated. It is good that Minister Djordjevic, in his opening statement, made the public aware of this long-awaited bill, which corrects injustice against the fighters of the last wars. I think the bill is good and I invite you to adopt it. As for the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of India, the Agreement was signed in Belgrade on 7 November 2019, seeking to improve and develop friendly relations and co-operation in the area of defence, and the next objectives and principles of the UN Charter. A mutual desire to develop co-operation that will be based on the principles of sovereignty, equality and mutual respect, trust, recognition of interest and understanding. The aim of this agreement is to establish general principles and procedures in co-operation in the area of defence against the common interest of Serbia and India, respecting the principles of equality and mutual benefit. Co-operation will be achieved in defence and security policy, military-economic co-operation, scientific and technical co-operation, military-intelligence co-operation, military education and training, military medicine and veterinary and in other areas of common interest. Through official visits, working meetings, exchange of experiences and consultations, training and education programmes, participation in exercises and activities, participation in conferences, symposiums and seminars, and in other ways agreed, a joint commission will be established to plan and monitor the activities related to the agreement. I believe that the agreement is good for the Republic of Serbia and I call on you to adopt a bill on its confirmation. The draft law confirming the Framework Military Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, this Framework Military Agreement was signed in Belgrade on 7 October 2019 expressing the need for further development of existing friendly relations between Serbia and Turkey which reaffirm their commitment to the UN Charter's objectives and principles. The agreement concerns co-operation in different military areas based on mutual respect for the sovereignty and equality of both sides and should contribute to the common interests and economic efficiency of Serbia and Turkey. Cooperation would be realised through the exchange of staff, material resources, equipment, information and experience, with the aim of providing a framework for mutual relations and developing co-operation in the following areas. In the fields of military training and education, participation in exercises and joint exercises, in the defence industry, military cooperation and visits, exchange of data, experiences, organisation, structure and equipment of the armed forces, exchange of military intelligence and information, cooperation in the fields of logistics, donations and logistics systems, military medicine, health, electronic communications, information systems and defence of attacks in information space. In operations that are not of war nature, such as peace-preservation operations, humanitarian aid, the fight against piracy. In exchange for information on legal systems in the military in the field of cartography and hydrography, in the exchange of personnel of professional training. In the exchange of guest staff and unit, in the exchange of information and experience, in defence of mines and improvised explosives, in training and exchange of experiences as part of national aid operations in the case of natural disasters and military history, archives, publishing and museology. The co-operation could be achieved in the following ways, meetings and visits by defence ministers, chief of staff, their deputies and other officials who are authorised by foreign officials, training organisations, education, courses and so on. Making contact between military institutions, organising mutual conversations, consultations and meetings, organising and participating in military exercises, exchange of information and experiences, mutually providing logistics support and so on. It is predicted that the parties may conclude specific arrangements with respect to common interests and needs. I believe that the agreement is good for the Republic of Serbia and I call on you to adopt the bill on its confirmation. Proposal for a law confirming the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on 7 October 2019 in order to improve bilateral co-operation and friendly relations between Serbia and Turkey for the sake of well-being in a peaceful atmosphere in both countries, respecting the principles of sovereignty and equality of the interests of both states. Co-operation would take place in accordance with the applicable national legislation and international agreements in the fight against transnational crimes, particularly in connection with terrorism, organised crime, migrant smuggling, human trafficking, intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances. As part of their capabilities, Serbia and Turkey would co-operate to prevent the suppression and conduct of financial investigations and investigations into criminal acts in the following areas. In the area of transnational organised crime, money laundering acquired by crime, computer crime, trafficking of cultural and natural goods, illicit production and trafficking in intoxicated drugs, trafficking in human beings, smuggling of migrants and regular migration, illicit trafficking in arms, ammunition, explosives, nuclear biochemical and radioactive and toxic materials, counterfeiting of money, passports, visas and other official documents, organised crime, smuggling of all kinds of customs goods and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and mules. Implementation of specific investigative methods such as controlled shipments in the fight against intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances. Special importance has been given to co-operation in preventing and curbing terrorist acts and financing terrorism within their own territory and against citizens and the security of the other side. In the fight against terrorism, co-operation will take place in the exchange of information criminal and intelligence data and an assessment of operational co-operation in relation to terrorist organisations and ways of their actions, terrorist acts, financing terrorism as technical methods used in the fight against terrorism. I believe this agreement is also good for the Republic of Serbia and I call on you to adopt a bill on its confirmation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72314	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk mainly about two laws as part of this discussion. First, on the bill of rights of fighters, military invalids, civilian disabled wars and members of their families. I must say immediately that the state must protect the rights of those who have bled for it, not to protect the interests and rights of those who rob it and steal it. A case of war veterans camping in the park for months in front of the National Assembly among the most significant state institutions is unprecedented. Not getting into how realistic their demands are, I consider inappropriate state behavior. I visited their camp on several occasions and talked to them. I know the president of the Republic received them, but they continued their mission after that, which means that the talks with the president were not satisfied. In this context, I must bring out a typical Serbian pain, which is that Serbian fighters were quickly forgotten mostly after all wars. I will point out in this direction and an example of Serbia's greatest hero in World War I, the legendary Milunka Savic, who is the bearer, among other things, and the largest international i.e. French medals, but before the end of her life in Belgrade, cleaning public toilets to feed, sad and ugly, we'll agree. A long time ago in this country, NATO bombing was said to be a campaign, action, intervention, air strike, which was forced by those on NATO's wings, brought to power in Serbia by a five-octobaric coup and who raced to deliver Serb heroes to The Hague military and political leadership. It was only later that we began to mark March 24th as the day of the criminal NATO bombing. About the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil disabled war and members of their families, said General Bozidar Delic, will speak later and my colleagues, and I will say something about another bill, and that is the proposal for a law on gambling. The past law on gambling was passed at another time in 2011, but with the same goal, to regulate the right of citizens to gamble. Since then, the state has been grooming its golden coke several times. Now he's proposing her general glazing. The State of Necessacks, introduced games of chance, abolished them and so on, while the number of automatics and bookies increased drastically. In this case a much smaller problem is law and games and happiness are categories that go into the world of irrational and deceptive, centuries-old even the eternal drive of men is to facilitate their difficult life, to be more joyful, carefree, to be better. However, it often fails. That's why he's looking for the strength to overcome himself, to be someone else. Happiness doesn't exist for all the people in this world alike. Should luck be fought or lucky should play or bet on it? Life is a game, politics too. Is our citizen satisfied and cultured? Did the legislators ask about something like that? The man of today's civilization is in the frames of stress and psychological fatigue, and he is the result of complicated conditions of life, especially in cities where the bond with the natural environment is increasingly breaking down. How do you avoid fatigue, aimlessness, emptiness and the race for money? This law does not answer that question. A helpless man often abandons his destiny. The man is a homoludens, and the game is part of us, but if we lose control, the harmless fun and minors and the elderly and the rich and the poor will become gambling. The games of happiness belong to a special reality that is pressed by impulse and irrational. A player fortunately accepts the temptations of visions that are superior to an unexperienced daily life. They almost teach what it's like to live in a world of hope. The expectation of gambling has a dramatic value. Since the harmless game of chance, they've taken the character of gambling and turned into an irritable thrill. Sometimes other than property is lost and freedom, some players are lucky to play precisely because of the dramatic essence of expectations, not just because of material benefits. The passion of playing in a period of stagnation and instability has turned into a desire for favor while the ball in the drum turns, there is an impatient desire and obsession, and deliverance from the misery of everyday life. The games of happiness are bound to the favor of fate, they are mocking man's reality, work, sweat and patience, and they can crown and strong will, but break weak. They don't give up hope, even when it's known she's a fraud. The root of everything is the desire to change something, reach quickly and easily, to change status and life. The cube has been a human companion for centuries, many historical figures have had problems with gambling. I'll mention Dekart, Walter, Mary Antonet, Dostoevsky. The fact is that gambling today is legalized in a huge number of countries, and that the state is inevitably finding its own interest, but it shouldn't be just budgetary. Bulgaria legalized the cube in 1993. Germany, since 2008, has banned all forms of gambling online. Russia has been allowing casinos and slot machines since 2009, only in 4 remote zones. In the United States, most states have legalized the cube, and in some it is still banned and considered a serious crime. The gambling spectrum, compared to which it can develop addiction, is virtually infinite. The most common are mass gambling, lottery, bingo, instant lottery, raffle, betting in sports bookies on the result in casinos, roulette, cards, gambling, poker, jamb, slot machines, poker machines, Internet gambling, horse racing, dogs etc. Dependence on gambling slows down a worrying situation, next to addiction to alcohol and drugs. Depending on the cube is not only a waste of money and time, but a disease that affects all spheres of life, interferes with work, damages the family, causes financial problems, leads to psychological disturbances, and even loss of life. Research in the field of gambling has shown that many who gamble have other behavioral problems. Risk factors affecting the development of addiction contribute to the problematic behaviour of young people, the escape from school, violence, delinquency, the use of psychoactive controlled substances. Greater availability of casinos and bookshops is a non-critical attitude towards gambling as a social phenomenon, the spread of gambling games in the media as reward games for advertising purposes, all of this helps those who are easily turned off from the normal path. The behavior of an addict is based on the principle of satisfaction, not on the principle of reality. Voluntary activity has been seriously disrupted. It has no real goals, and even less will and energy and strength for some different outcome. Why am I alleging this? I think the social consequences are extremely difficult, that both family and friends, that problems are criminal, social, legal, financial with psychopharmacs and sociotherapeutic modes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72316	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72317	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will support all these laws that are on the agenda, and since my fellow Members, the honourable MPs and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, spoke of the Law on the Rights of the Fighters, then of Disabilities and Civil Disabilities of War, my smallness will say a few sentences about it from another aspect, from the point of patriotism. For the first time, a law has been passed for the entire Republic of Serbia that regulates the area of combat disability and the protection of disabled war. The law lays down the permanent value of fighting for the defence of our country, for independence and sovereignty and territorial integrity and constitutional order of the country, i.e. With these rights, aphirmism and patriotism are a cornerstone of every man's morality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, patriotism is a noble and gentle feeling that, in the words of the great Cicero, is deeply rooted in man. It's the sanctity of the human soul, it's the love of the country or as they might say, it's patriotism. This is best expressed by the Roman philosopher and writer of the great Seneca who said: “I do not like my homeland because it is beautiful, because it is rich and because it is progressive, but because it is mine. ” It's a finished quote. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, that is the only way to explain the patriotism of the Dutch who binds that love to their swamps or the love of the Arabs for sand and deserts, and the Swiss to the snowmen in the Alps. Patriotism is the most beautiful ornament of the human soul. It is the most beautiful virtue of a citizen who seeks to advance the good and culture of his country and if the use always lays down his life for it. Love for the country is a religion of the heart that has to develop since its young legs. When the greatest Greek philosopher, Socrates, who was in the dungeon, persuaded his disciples to flee from the dungeon, he replied, I quote: “I am staying in prison because of the laws of my country which everyone is required to observe, I want to obey. ” It's a finished quote. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the most beautiful example of the country's sacrifice has been shown to us by King Peter, when during the Austrian army's entry into Serbia, he came among his soldiers after he learned that some were dissatisfied by the withdrawal and great fatigue he told them: “I believe that you are tired after so many wars, but know that today as never before, your country needs your help. I sympathise that you are eager for your loved ones and loved ones, and therefore I, your king, resolve your oaths to me, and that I will die here with my two sons defending my own breast and that the enemy will enter our homeland only through our dead bodies. “ A quote has been completed. These words had a lightning-speed effect on the soul of a soldier, enthusiastically hailed the king, and on the first commandment they went after the enemy, beat the enemy, and cleansed all of Serbia from the Austrians to Drina and Sava. Dear People's MPs, our political opponents from the Democratic Party in various aggregate states did not have patriotic feelings during the criminal NATO aggression on our homeland in 1999. Democratic Party leader Dr Zoran Djindjic has moved to Germany. From the Hotel "Adlon" in Berlin, he urged our country to be bombed. On 3 May 1999, he made a statement to the editor of foreign news, Israel's Haaretz, Adar Primor, when he said. I quote: "The most logical thing for NATO is to continue a war that is very effective. They destroyed the infrastructure in Serbia and in ten days, it will be very difficult to live without gas, without electricity, without bridges of communication. Milosevic will not be able to lead more war than ten days to two weeks." It's a finished quote. Here you are, ladies and gentlemen, to see on one side the patriots, and on the other side those who have sided with the enemy. His colleague, Srdjan Popovic, a lawyer, was the signator of a 1993 document seeking Serbia's bombing with Margaret Thatcher, Mirko Kovaca, Zbigev Bzezinski and others. He then called Serbia "anus mundi"- an asshole of the world, and Serbs what is in the anus, i.e. In an asshole. These "Governmental" spitters daily satanicize the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, the state of Serbia and all that was done in Serbia during the rule of Aleksandar Vukic. That's how they satanized "Belgrade on Water". Is that so, ladies and gentlemen and distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia? That's how they satanicized the resuscitation of the Smeder's Ironworks. Even our political opponent, Zoran Zivkovic, suggested that the "Smederevo Irons" and workers be closed home, according to the "N1" CIA, as you remember. Furthermore, they satanized the rehabilitation of RTB BOR, Er Serbia, which today is the regional champion, the opening of factories, remember that Ljoticvac, Boška Obradovic, who stopped the opening of factories, satanized the construction of highways, state roads, local roads, 987km of roads in three years, satanized the construction of 370 schools, hospitals, the opening of the National Museum in Belgrade and the Museum of Applied Art. There is little time to list, but this is enough to see individuals from the Alliance for Serbia satanicize everything that is advanced in Serbia. Among the satanic teams was David Philip, a writer as he presents himself. On 7 March 2018, the man said, quote: "Alexander Vukic's politics is schizophrenic," a quote concluded. The man has been working constantly against the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people for 28 years, and on June 6th 2019, he said, quote: "Kosovo is not Serbia nor will it ever be," a quote concluded. This way, neither the greatest enemies nor those of the U.K.C. He threw out and insulted, mocked Nobel Prize winner Peter Hanke because he was on the right side of Serbia during the aggression of the criminal NATO alliance, and because he was at the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic. On June 6, 2019, said David Filip, quoting: Hanke's moral character is zero," the quote was completed because he opposed NATO bombing. And it wasn't just Hanke, he says, the only Nobel laureate who was on our side in 1999, that was four more, and that's Jose Samarago, Portuguese, Alexander Solzhenjicin, Russian, Dario Fio, Italian and Harold Pinter, English. Otherwise, David Filip said that the day of the victory over fascism in Nis with General Vladimir Lazarevic is at the helm, abuse of that day, etc. So here are the honourable Members of the people to see what kind of people it is. When it comes to him and this film, one of the authors, Slavisa Lekic, let me tell you that both, here are the appeal of 88 intellectuals from the region who blame official Belgrade for the crisis in Montenegro. Here, amongst 88, to see what kind of enemies Serbia is about, and I'll read just a few names. Among them, Latina Perovic, a breaker of Serbia and Yugoslavia. The second signator is Stepan Mesic, who quoted me as saying, "I have done my job in the SFRJ presidency. Yugoslavia is no more," the quote was completed. Milan Kucav, let's not talk about him. Only a few Azem Vlasi, Sherbo Rastaoder, a historian from Montenegro, one of the largest anti-Serbs in these areas. Millyvoj Bešlin, historian, Nikola Samardzic. What do you say about that? Sonja Biserko, David Filip I was talking about, writer, Svetislav Basara, writer, Natasa Mičić, MP in the Serbian Parliament, Cedomir Jovanovic, MP and LDP President Nenad Canak, MP, LSV President, Bojan Kostreš and many others, and among them this one calls journalist Dinko Gruhonjic, Tomislav Marković, the nakarad of journalists, Slavisa Lekić, here he is, you see, the author of the film that was found. You can see now that the people are concerned, that everything that is Serbian to them is foreign. Gordana Suša, who else than she would call a journalist, and Snow White Congrada. That's the one who said that Srebrenica was a genocide and said that Vojislav Seselj was a "convicted war criminal", and there is no documentation for such a verdict, which she invented. Dear People's MPs, I, for all of them now, these journalists, the writers I've read and the ones I haven't read, yet once again, I'm going to say what John Swinton, former head of staff in New York City, New York Times, is on a toast he held outside the New York Club away in 1953, only part of the quote I'm going to read, quote: "The job of journalists, analysts, writers, etc. The writer, the charlatan, I'd say they're destroying the truth, lying openly, selling their own country and people to earn bread. We are the tools and servants of the rich behind the scenes. Our talent, our opportunities and our lives are owned by other people." And finally, dear Mr. Lekic and the co-workers in the movies, it is especially worth this last sentence of John Swinton: "We are intellectual prostitutes", finished quote. Dear citizens, I'll finish this part, let's call the Patriot speech, I'll paraphrase in the fact of Michael Jovic, the history writer for the fourth grade of elementary school in the 19th century, whose textbook had 52 editions until 1939, paraphrasing and something to add, I quote: "I'd like you to always be heroes like Obilić and Hajduk Veljko, honest as Karajordje, that you never take power like Jovan Kursula, not to grab yourself, but to help others like Hajduk Veljko, to do good as Prince Ivan, to forgive the enemy as well as to the Prince Michael," and I add: to defend Serbia and to defend as King Petar the Liberator and to build and reform as the Serbianman. On that behalf, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72318	Thank you. The word is Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72319	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen Ministers, colleagues and colleagues before us is a set of agreements and two very important laws, the laws we have been talking about all day. When I talk about this law, the Law on Fighters and Rights of People who participated in both their heirs and families in wars for this Serbia, I remember Laza K. Lazarevic and what we all read in childhood: “All these people will gold. ” All of our warriors suffered in the Balkans, or after the Balkan wars, and after World War I and after World War II, and finally someone who tried, and this is nice today and said the minister, who is trying and this is the first good attempt to solve it comprehensively. That's this government, that's this congregation majority. Many may not be satisfied with this bill, we are here to fix it. It was important to pass such a law, and I am sure and I am convinced that in the day to vote and accept this legal solution, and the time ahead of us and all those objections, even though there has been a number of public hearings, where public hearings were organised, which the organisations participated in, were involved in the preparation and development of this law and the very good opening of Mr. Minister, which lasted over 60, over 70 minutes, where a member per member explained to the details. Whoever wanted to listen heard and finally heard that he said that we were open and that this government and the next government were open to new proposals to improve this legal act, but this is the beginning. I'm sorry there are people who criticize something when someone's trying, when someone's working. It turns out that in this country sometimes it's more important not to work, it's better not to do anything. Another law that I would and would dedicate to a certain amount of time, given that there are a lot of our colleagues who need to discuss behind me, it's the law on gambling. It's a law that defines one new way and the game-makers of chance, the distribution of profits and what's most important, with this electronic surveillance improves what's very important and eliminates I'm sure in a large part of the gray economy, first of all. What is proud, and this is what the chairman of the Finance Committee in our Assembly has said a lot today, is that the Government and the Assembly Committee accepted the suggestion and amendment of those who are largely concerned with the funds that are collected in this way in the budget and through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which are disabled, which there are over 800,000 and we have implemented and amended that member of the law, and in what percentage, which certain organisations need to finance, because this is, above all, their main source of funding. Also, one part, which is a percentage of five percent will be financed by children to treat severely curable diseases, i.e. for treatment abroad. I note again, it is only one piece, as the ministry also envisioned with its budget fund and the budget of the Republic of Serbia most of the funds intended for that purpose. I'd end up here if I didn't. In any case, in the voting day, I will vote with all the proposed legal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72320	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72321	Gentlemen, as long as we are here in the O.R., I was expecting the Minister of Resort who is in charge of these laws to react several times, the minimum, for the reason that while certain reports of MPs of the ruling majority have been read, they have spoken of certain things that are untrue, from the fact that fighters and various associations are overly satisfied with this Bill on the Rights of Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities War, and members of their families, where they probably, watching their referendums, did not know or wanted to say that they were just representatives of those people who have been protesting since October of the Pioneer Park, since the morning of the morning, they had made their peaceful protest today and continued to enter the National Assembly and asked to withdraw such a radical law, because none of what was most important to them since they had been fulfilled. So, after that, October, November, December, January, February, there will be March the month, six months of winter days spent in the park, in tents, and the government of the Republic of Serbia had no hearing. Then I asked myself, "Why didn't the minister react and explain to the MPs that they probably didn't read the bill because speaking in superlative in this part was really incorrect?" This is the smallest word that can be used. And then probably the reason he didn't take a word and answer to those MPs was the fact that how important this law is to the government of Serbia and the fact that, in a joint principled single search today, along with this law, which is one of the most important perhaps, you put 27, 28, 29 other laws and then the Law on the Rights of Fighters, so that citizens who follow the transfer would know, put together with the Law on Games, on various conventions, on climate conditions, on the area of sustainable management of cross-border waters with Romania, etc., etc., and so on, with many other laws that absolutely have nothing to do with what Serbia today was necessary. And that's why the minister didn't react, because then this truth would come out. Why is the state, as the headquarters of society, as the headquarters of tomorrow's unity of its nation, people, all those who respect the Constitution and the laws of the Serbian state, why must it take care of the fighters? When I tell the fighters, I also think about veterans and wartime military people. Not only to repay those fighters who have defended their country in the past, but to have, after all, who will defend us in the future. Here is the question of moral integrity. If you do not meet those who were willing to give their lives for the country at the most difficult moment for the country, who have also given their lives, who have shed blood, who have fought the most difficult battles in the history of humanity, because no country has faced, as in 1999, such a small country, that it is at war with the world's greatest military force, pressed within a terrorist organisation, then the regular army of Albania and the entire NATO pact. Do you remember the true stories about how they were bombed with carpets, tape bombs day and night? Do you remember those moats of mothers of those soldiers and fighters who died? Did they deserve today to be offered minimum funds after all they've given to this country, after 20 years of silence? I understand somewhere that we live in a country where we even have a military minister who was militaryly incapacitated at the time of the war, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't pay back to those who were militaryly capable and the other disabled and bled for this country. A few days ago, the president of the state said, quote: "Syptari will never be in Serbia's system again." They may not be in Serbia's system, but Kosovo and Metohija will. What is this statement by the president of the state before the talks continue, where he says -- they will not be in the system. They don't have to, which one of them is asking to be in the system? We demand respect for the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. What is a shameful fact, and I hope that Mr. Minister Zoran Djordjevic will remember, is only one of the heroes who lives here with us today and who is ready to fight again for this Serbia. It is said and it seems to me, that the man you received on one conversation was Albert Andyi, who was a specialist and elder of the Russian Federation Army, who was a fighter and I can freely say a hero from Koshar and Paštrik, who was wounded by the Sue River, very hard, lost his eye and after only 15 days went back to war, was then in the units of the Ministry of Interior of Serbia, who, by his skill and what he became a specialist, Mr Djordjevic knew well who he was and how he liquidated and how many he had executed, the number of terrorists he had liquidated, who at the most raised the morale of our armies with his treatment and his love for Christianity, Orthodoxism and Serbia, who married the Serbian woman with whom he founded his family. Such a man since 2000, exactly 20 years, has papers for temporary stay only, and from our country, although he has properly complied with the laws of the Republic of Serbia applied for citizenship, then after a year submitted an emergency, to this day no written reply has been received from the institutions and representatives of the Serbian state institutions. Also, we need to know that it's a man who's a wartime disabled second category 100%, and that's a man who's lived for the first 10 years without any means whatsoever. Does this man have credit for you or not? Did you at least have a moral obligation to betray such a man immediately? What else was that man supposed to do for this country? What was a man like that supposed to do? Let's look at another example, Mr. Minister, some stranger shows up and plays for our basketball or football club, this football or basketball club, it's irrelevant, the sports club sends a request to the state for a foreigner who plays in that club to be issued by an emergency procedure of citizenship and a man who runs after the ball, who has nothing to do with Serbia, who earns money, because our clubs mostly help the state, gets overnight citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Is that a problem for you or isn't it? That raises the question of how do you even treat fighters? What's interesting, when we look at it, is that the simple people realize that all the truths, when it comes to fighters, are here today, are Article 33. A law that says in paragraph 4. "For the right to a martial law, the minimum amount of pension in the insurance of employees in the Republic of Serbia, according to the PIO regulations." So, the lowest pension. Now let's see where you put the people who sacrificed their lives, where you put the people who defended our country, where you put those people in advance and the generations that they're going to need to defend. Let's see how you regulate that... Mr. Markovic, this isn't a joke, I'm asking you not to throw it away. This is how you solved the question of fighters - the lowest pension. Let's see how you solved for athletes and what you suggested. A few years ago, the Serbian government reached solutions on granting national and sports recognitions to Serbian citizens in the form of a lifetime-long monthly monetary income. These national pensions, according to the solution, are assigned to athletes who won medals, etc. In line with the medal after she was 40 years old. First, athletes after they turned 40, who were law-abiding after 60, with no right to receive any income until 60. After that, athletes are destined for pensions ranging from 111 to 166,000 dinars per month, regardless of the material condition. It is further said that the public has recently received information that these pensions are more than the receiving of prominent SANU members. The largest pension in Serbia, which can be obtained on the basis of 45 years of employment, is about 100,000 dinars, while athletes who won the bronze at the Olympic Games receive at least 111,000 dinars a month and increase that amount to 166,000 for gold. So gold is worth three average salaries, silver two-and-a-half wages, to me, Mr. Minister, that wouldn't be as funny as you right now, while bronze is worth two average salaries. As the average salary in Serbia jumps, it means that next year, the fighter who lost his leg, the eye, can't feed the family to receive between 7,000 and 13,000 dinars, and the credited athlete who, of course, should repay such people will get no less than 30 times as much. If you say that the average salary and the average salary is 60,000 dinars, that means that they will receive 180,000 dinars on the monthly level. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that by this law you have humiliated the fighters with a proposed solution and they need to know that when you decide to go to defend the state and give your life, if by any chance you stay alive, you can get between 7,000 and 13,000 dinars, and if you are a good athlete and win one medal, no matter how many performances you have had in the team, no matter how much you stop and don't want to play for the team, you will receive thousands of euros in funding. Since there's been some flings from colleagues, if someone doesn't think I'm improvising, I'll read you what it looks like when it comes to Article 86 and Article 87. Article 86. The first thing that needs to be put to the point is that for fighters, it needs to be national, not social aid. So you're giving national pensions here, and you're putting fighters in the social category. When we look at Article 86, in order to meet the conditions, after the age of 60, if he is 60 years old, he must practically be homeless, that no one in his family is doing anything to get some funding. Article 86 says, first and foremost, the right to a martial law only if it is older than 60 years of life and if it or a member of its immediate family, who lives in a joint household, is not in a working relationship, is not a beneficiary of pensions, does not carry out work on the basis of an out-of-work relationship contract, does not carry out independent work, is not an entrepreneur, is not a member of a business society, is not an obligation to contribute to pension-inhabited insurance, does not exercise the right to own or benefit from enjoying land on agricultural land more than five hectares, is not a beneficiary of the right to monthly income under this law, does not exercise material support through financial social assistance and other rights under social protection rules and, based on the properties of fighters for the same period of participation in the war, i.e.e. armed actions taken during the peace period, does not achieve monthly income receipts by another country. So he needs to be homeless, a beggar to come out and give him 7,000 to 13,000 dinars. Why am I talking between 7,000 and 13,000 dinars, so that's clear? Article 87 goes on to say, the combat supplement of Article 86 is recognised in the corresponding monthly amount, and that is to the first category fighter of 100%, the second category fighter of 80% and third category fighter of 60% of the base. You say at least pensions, and it looks like this: the first-class fighter, who lost everything, will have a monthly fee of 13.221 dinars, if he meets all the conditions of the homeless; the second-class fighter at this time will be able to count on the funds in the incredible 10,577 dinars, that's the money with which in Serbia you can live well; third-class fighter 7.933 dinars. So once you go to a bigger market and spend that money well and say, "That's it." This is if we take the average pension of 24,200 dinars, something over. You failed everything on purpose, and you should at least give the average pension to these people and, of course, what they were fighting for, as far as possible at this point, allow them and give them back some of the respect that, we're not going to waste words, they deserve. In the meantime, how many of these 20 years have these fighters, the disabled deceased? Unfortunately, when I can tell you how much you've saved on those people who haven't paid their pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72322	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. In order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72323	Thank you, Chairman. Let's get this debate serious, that's the point. No one here has said that he is too happy or too pleased that he tried to stamp out the previous speaker, but the truth is that today the state of Serbia is far more responsible and far more dignified towards fighters, fighter organisations, fallen fighters, disabled wars and other categories we are discussing today. After all, that's true what I'm saying right now is confirmed by the authorized party representative whose previous speaker just spoke here. So, the authorised party representative whose previous speaker spoke earlier said that we had waited a long time for this law, and that even some things were done with this law and more than expected – I quote. Then, that this is the first law in which fighters appear and are practically given some rights, said the authorised representative of his party. Let's move on. He'd rather have listened than spent time in cafes, but that's another thing now. Let's move on. When it comes to health care and here we are commended for how we regulated it by this bill, and this commendation comes from the authorised representative of his party. When it comes to other categories, it is also said here that it is a good thing that Articles 96 and 94 mentions the right to fight on the apartment. So, we also have a commendation from the authorized representative of his party. Well, we have some more commendations, and it's the part that concerns the martial monuments that are being introduced by this bill. Let's move on. Here, it is commendable for the right to legislate which is introduced by this bill. We also have the part where post-traumatic syndrome is treated, and the authorised representative of his party is praised when it comes to all of these categories. So someone here was supposed to spend time listening to what his authorised party representative was saying, instead of sitting around bars or whatever he was doing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing, indeed, a number of important draft laws, agreements, agreements, but certainly the greatest public attention has just challenged this bill that we are discussing, and it is the draft law on the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil war and members of their families. We heard this morning, I must say in an exhaustive statement by Mr. Minister, which is why it is important that we adopt the bill. What effects this law will have, what problems this law needs to solve, and finally what objectives will be achieved by this law. What is important to point out, although several speakers have already pointed out, is that for the first time uniquely for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the entire area of martial law enforcement and the protection of civil persons with disabilities, especially if we know that the protection of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil war, as well as members of their families has been regulated by several different laws and sublegal acts. So even regulations of different levels of government. We have earlier federal regulations, so we have republican regulations, so we have regulations of the former autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija and we have regulations of local self-government. As I was saying, this law will affect fighters, military people with disabilities, civilian war, members of families of military disabled men, civilian victims of war and civilian people with disabilities, because they will be able to fully regulate all the rights provided for in this law. I would especially point out the category of users that have not existed so far, and these are the fighters who participated in the wars of the 1990s and the war in 1999 and the new rights prescribed by this law. The right to a martial law supplement that we were just talking about, the right to a special retirement internship, the right to legitimateize a fighter, the right to a battle monument, the right to a fighter on a uniform. All those rights positively expressed by the authorised representative of the party of the previous speaker, who was just trying to challenge this. In addition to these rights, other rights are prescribed, the right to address housing needs, the right to legalisation, except, fighters and military people with disabilities, civil invalid wars, parents, spouse and child of a fallen fighter, soldier dead or killed in the military, fallen fighter, civilian victims of war, dead military disabled and dead civilian war. Then, the right to the invalidity supplement of a wartime military invalid who turned 65 years old, the right to a family invalidity of members of the family of the dead civilian wartime first group, who used the care and assistance allowance. In addition to all these rights, there is an increase in the amount of current rights, and this is personal disability, family disability, the right to the disability allowance of unemployed military people, the right to drive free of charge and the privilege of driving. Also, some rights, other than those mentioned, are changed in relation to existing regulations, combat supplements, unemployment benefits for wartime wartime people, Banjski and climate treatment, passenger motor vehicle rights, care and assistance allowances, and many other rights not to read exactly what is provided for in this bill. So, the chairman, all of this says that the legislator had in mind the importance of including all categories of users by law, to show respect and honour for fighters, fallen fighters, disabled wars and other categories treated by this law, or to say those covered by this law, because they submitted the greatest sacrifice and Serbia is obliged to respect and appreciate it. The message we send by adopting this law is that we highly appreciate manifest patriotism, willingness to defend the country and state sovereignty, and that the state will know how to care and reward people who are willing to respond to the call of the country and defend the country. For all these reasons, I would like to invite us to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72324	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Three MPs called for a replica. He can get one, it makes sense for me to be General Bozidar Delic. Here you go, General Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72325	Everything I've been saying as an authorised representative is absolutely nothing at all controversial. I also said that the current Law on the Rights of Fighters, War Disabilities and the families of the dead fighters was in the work concerning the disabled and the families of the dead fighters was relatively good and had only a few problems to solve. This law solves these problems in an absolutely quality way so that when it comes to this law and the part relating to the disabled and the families of the dead, we have no objection and we would vote for the law. However, it is also true that the rights of fighters appear practically for the first time in this law and that in all the plans that were before this, they were significantly smaller. However, if we talk about national recognition, what is inadmissible is to take the lowest, legal lowest pension and to take it as a basis, and after 60 years of age, with very restrictive conditions which, when I think about it like this, may satisfy several hundred or just not to exaggerate, several thousand fighters. Here it is said -- it would be more acceptable to take an average pension in Serbia, which is around 24,000 dinars. When it comes to national recognition, and what Miljan was saying now, about the national recognition of athletes, who in their careers, a number of them, made a huge amount of money, then it can really be said that the fighters were not respected as they should have been and that the state of Serbia had to find certain funds, significantly higher, and that it was not so humiliating. If you've read the law, then you've read the fact that it takes an additional two billion 620 thousand 175 dinars to implement this law, and if you've ever read that law I suggested three years ago, it took six and a half billion dinars. It is likely that this law or that the elements of this law have entered into this legislative proposal, which is absolutely acceptable to us in all other elements, would not have come into a situation that is less than social aid and that fighters are thinking about whether it is better to have social assistance or to have a fighting allowance. (President: Thank you. But what's special, just one more sentence, it's that 60 years. So you have to live without anything until you're 60, and then you get that fighter supplement or that church that's between 7,000 and 13,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72326	Thank you, General Delic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72327	Thank you. A colleague Markovic earlier spoke contrary to the provisions of article 107. The Rules of Procedure and somehow you were held short by democracy. You're talking about the law where the rights of fighters are governed, and you put, in addition to this law, games of chance and 27 other agreements on the agenda, etc. So as soon as these EU officials turned their backs on you, you went back to the way you were. But Mr. Bozidar Delic explained everything about our attitudes, and in previous reporting and now, regarding this law and the rights of fighters. After all, he's been with his comrades every day, because many of them who have been strikein' there for days in the park are his comrades. It's very interesting to say here, these MPs from the government, I think of them, to praise so much this bill. Then what are the fighters outside the Assembly? What are they protesting? I don't see them waiting for these out of power to applaud them. One more thing, three times in the course of his debate, he mentioned that our colleague was not sitting here, but that instead of sitting in the Assembly, he was walking around the cafes. That's inadmissible. Now I have to answer him and tell him that he hears the public and hears the fighters who listen to us, who are now strikein' ahead and protesting against the authorities outside the National Assembly, that from the government, from the full coalition, he is sitting 26 MPs at this moment. I just got word that everyone's almost dead drunk, half-drinked in cafes around the congregation. It's really inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72328	Comrade Radeta, would you like the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Markovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72329	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I repeat my appeal, to try to seriousise this debate today, in line with the topic on the agenda. Chairman, I just want to thank you for the correctness of the esteemed General Delic and for saying that the issue of fighters is being resolved for the first time, practically, by this very bill, in a systematic manner. It is important to say that representatives of various fighting associations, disabled associations supported this law and that they themselves say this is a significant increase for them. And thank you anyway for estimating that this is even more than expected, and here we fully agree. I believe you will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72330	Thank you, colleague Markovic. General Delic, come in. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72331	Gentlemen, first of all, you need to understand that we're normal people and we're never gonna say something that's good that's not good. So, a lot of what we've been looking for has been given to this law. We're looking for a uniform, one member mentions that the minister will prescribe what that uniform looks like. I know there's probably gonna be a rule book in that rulebook about fighters getting it by their means. That's not a question, either. Mr. Erić and I spoke once upon a time about how important this monument is and I watched what this proposal is and we absolutely agree, it's okay. Most of the things we used to talk about got into this law, post-traumatic syndrome was also mentioned. I am pleased that we fought, I believe that only a few hundred fighters will be granted wartime disability status and will be able to move on with their lives. We're not Americans, so after combat acts, 65% suffer from post-traumatic syndrome. After all, we were defending our country, and they were attacking other people's lands. But what's key is to say, to someone, this combat supplement is important. People who have no other means to survive. Because you've seen what restrictive conditions are imposed on you, and for 60 years. That shouldn't have existed for 60 years. That should have been, for example, if, at the very request of the people who meet those conditions that would not have been a very large asset, they probably wouldn't have gone beyond what I predicted in that law three years ago. Our goal is to show respect for the fighters in this way, that the fighters don't have to seek social assistance at the level of their municipalities, and we have them here in the park that live on welfare. It's unacceptable, if it's a national recognition, that we have people who live on welfare.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72332	Thank you, General Delic. The word is Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72333	Dear representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I want first of all to say to the special fact that we have finally welcomed that the Bill on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families has come into the assembly procedure, that this bill has a number of positive things, that in a single, systematic and comprehensive way, it regulates the martial-inhabitation area, that this law does not provide for the abolition of any rights that has been acquired so far and that this bill introduces a series of new rights, which we have already heard in today's debate, and the right to legitation, the right to battle monument, the right to uniform, then regulate the questions of post-traumatic stress, an active approach to resolving housing issues of the population. Unfortunately, however, this bill does not cover one category of fighters, it is more than 50,000 members of the Republika Srpska Army, which have not been recognised since 27 April 1992, until the reintegration of eastern Slavonia, Baranja, Western Srem, into the state framework of Croatia. I talked about it in the Serbian Parliament eight or nine times in the previous period. I've had many conversations with the Krajina fighters and I must convey their dissatisfaction and indignation that in this bill, in addition to seven categories of fighters, they are not included in the eighth category. It is about members of the Republika Srpska Army who fought honorably and proudly for their people, who were honorable fighters, who defended their people and defended themselves for freedom. They are deeply convinced that they did not wage any private war, but that they did so from national initiatives and, above all, fought against the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tuđman, whose aim was to create an ethically clean Croatian state, on the principles of the Ustasha movement and an independent state of Croatia. Krajina fighters are not to blame for experiencing a 1995 disaster in the criminal actions "Blash" and "Storm". The blame lies primarily with the Western centres of power and their dual standards policy on the one hand, but I must also say insufficient concern and insufficiently responsible relations between the then Serbian government. I'm going to state a few reasons why I think the Krajina fighters should be recognised by this law. First, it is well known that all of the country's officers and sub-offices have been recognised as a war effort for the entire time of the double-term war and the question is now being raised – with whom the country's officers and officers have commanded, when they have been recognised wartime throughout the war, and with their fighters only until 27 April 1992, so on the day of the creation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Also, the military internship has been recognised throughout the war and civilians serving the Yugoslav People's Army. The second reason, it is known that Croatia, by its law on the rights of Croatian veterans, and as they say the defender at the end of 2018, recognised members of Croatia's council of defence from neighbouring BiH, i.e. all members of Croatia's larger defences from western Herzegovina, central Bosnia and other parts of BiH and fully equalised with the rights of members of the Croatian military, and asked no one whether they should do so or not. Thirdly, Croatia is known to have brought amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in 1993, which allowed members of the armed forces of an independent Croatian state, therefore the Ustasha and the natives, to be recognised and recognised for their participation in the NDH armed forces from 17 April 1941 until 15 May 1945 in double duration. Therefore, the Ustashas and the natives were fully recognised in 1993 by the amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. They got pensions for what they did. What did they do? They executed a brutal unremembered genocide on the Serbian people, on Jews and Roma during World War II. According to the 2013 morning list, about 13,000 surviving Ustashas and natives and members of their families were then receiving pensions and in the coming years, Croatia allocated close to 50m euros in its budget. So, Croatia allocates nearly 50m euros each year to pay pensions to the Ustashas and the natives, and since there is a possibility after their death that pension may be inherited by their wives. Also recognised by the Ustashas and the natives is recognised as a double wartime, meaning the period they spent in captivity after 16 May 1945. Also, you need to know that these right Ustashas and the natives didn't have to have any written evidence. So they could either bring a photo where they were taken in their units or at the time of slaughtering and killing Serbs or which was allowed to have two associations, which are Croatian veterans' society of the Croatian Domobran and the Society of former soldiers of the regular Croatian Army, could, or could issue assurances or confirmations of the participation of surviving Ustasha and the natives in the armed forces of NDH. On the basis of these certificates and assurances, these two associations and certificates and assurances of the Croatian State Archives, the Croatian Pension Fund, or the Institute, made solutions that they could make pensions. The fourth point, or fourth argument in favor of my thesis, is why I believe that all of the Krajina fighters should be recognised as a wartime service throughout the double-term war. It is also known that Germany only six years after the end of World War II, so in 1951, it allowed all former members of the German Vermarcht, the German army and former Nazis, who were not found to have committed war crimes, to have acquired the right to pensions. According to data from February last year, outside Germany there are two thousand and 33 people paid out of their budget for their pensions because they fought in Germany's Vermacht in SS units, on the eastern front, in the Balkans and around the world. Of these over two thousand people who receive pensions from the German budget, we have 71 persons from Croatia today. These pensions range from 500 euros to 1300 euros. So Germany didn't take off, Germany that was defeated, which caused World War II, whose regime made the unremembered Holocaust and genocide, because only six years after the end of World War II passed a law that allowed its members to receive pensions until today. So someone who was 30 or 35 now over 90 in 1951, he has been receiving a pension from the German budget for more than six decades. For these reasons, which I believe is that injustice and discrimination, according to the Krajina fighters, is that they are recognised only until 27 April 1992, I have submitted an amendment that I will now read. I think Article 5 that regulates the categories of fighters should add point 5a to point 1 after point 5. which would read, - therefore, as a fighter is recognised as a member of the Serbian Army of the Krajina and the Ministry of Interior of Republika Srpska in areas protected by the United Nations, who participated in armed actions after 27 April 1992 until 12 November 1997 in the area under the protection of the United Nations Peace Corps, based on United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 743 since 27 February 1992, the Vens Plan and the Law on the validity of the legal system on the part of the SFRY territory, which was under the special protection of the United Nations, the Official Journal of the SFRY of 20 March 1992. It was just the adoption of this law on 20 March 1992 in the then-SFRJ Assembly on the validity of the SFRJ legal system in the coastal area that one of the conditions was that the Republika Srpska Assembly decided to accept the Vens plan. I think with this amendment, we would correct this decades-old injustice and send a message to the Krajina fighters and the Krajina that they are to be recognized along with all other categories of fighters listed in the law. The second thing, Article 7 regulates the issue of classifying fighters into three categories. It is said that the fighter of the first category is a fighter with an engagement of over 200 days of this law, and the fighter from Article 5, point 7, is referring to the aggression of the NATO Pact on the SRJ, a fighter who has been engaged for at least 60 days in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija and the fighter, who has been recognised as the property of a military disabled, regardless of the length of his engagement. The second category is a fighter with an engagement from 46 to 200 days. And the third category is a fighter with an engagement of up to 45 days. My opinion is that this categorization should be considered and that it is in a certain way discriminatory and unfair. For what? That's what I heard in a conversation with the Krajina fighters. According to this categorization, it turns out that one day of war on KIM is worth more than three days of fighting in Krajina. Also, we have another category of fighters. In the summer of 1991, a large number of Serbian citizens, who fought in the area of the then Socialist Republic of Croatia against the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tuđman, were mobilised, and the largest number of those fighters were hired for a period of 60 to 80 days, up to a maximum of 4.5 months. So for the longest 135 days. Now it turns out that all these fighters, and there were over 140,000 of them, according to the information I have, of which over 80,000 of them from the AP Vojvodina area, are exclusively fighters of the second category. So they can't be first-class fighters. I think it's double discrimination in this categorization. My proposal is that we have two categories, so the first category is fighters who were hired for at least 60 days and more, and that's how we'll even the fighters of Republika Srpska's period, and that's how we'll even the fighters who were mobilized in the summer of 1991 in Serbia, especially in the area of the AP Vojvodina, and that's how we'll send a clear message that all fighters, whether they were at war in 1991, 1992 and 1993 in Krajina, or in KIM 1999, are exactly equal. The second category would be fighters who were hired less than 60 days. The third thing I want to talk about, the special chapter is dedicated to this bill of law, about proving the status of a disabled fighter. This includes members from 141 to 154. It is said in these articles that only documents are considered specifically military, police and judicial, and medical records. So you're looking for original written evidence from the time of participation in the war. For families of fallen fighters, written evidence is sought from the period when the face died, died or disappeared. For disabled people, written evidence is required from a time when the person received a wound, injury, or a disease. I now want to say the reality of the Krajina. It is important to know that a good part of the command has given the order to destroy evidence related to formations, numbers, names and last names of fighters, so that the evidence and that documentation will not fall into the hands of the enemy. Also, it should be borne in mind that in criminal, Croatian, military actions, so from those in 1991 in Western Slavonia, Orcan, Papuk 91, Otkos, then "Miljevska plato", "Masslenica", "Medak pocket", and to "Bleska" and "Storms", that the Krajski fighters left the documentation in their houses or were forced to drop that documentation, including military books or simply disappear during those fights. A good part of the Krajina fighters doesn't have that documentation. Now even if this law were to be recognised by the Krajina fighters, throughout the double-term war, the problem of means of proof would appear. In that sense, I think it would be good for one member of this chapter to be dedicated to the means of proof to say that one of the means of proof can be two qualified witnesses. In Article 150. The bill absolutely introduces any possibility of witness statements given in court proceedings being considered a means of proof. I think you should think about it. We have seen from my previous presentation that Croatia has made it possible for pensions to survive the Ustashas and the natives, as even the two associations mentioned have issued assurances and certificates of their participation in Ustasha and Domobran units. In 2013, more than 13,000 people received pensions from the Croatian Pension Fund. The fourth thing I want to talk about is I said and I want to point out again, that it is very positive that this bill in a comprehensive and systematic and very good way, the regulated question of disabled people and the question of families of fallen fighters. There's a small category of civil war victims I'm going to talk about a little bit later, but what's in practice. Since I've talked to a lot of people in the field, I've had one fact that one, that's not a large number, a small number of Krajina fighters who were wounded on battlefields and a family of fallen fighters did not exercise the right to a personal and family disability. Why didn't they? They missed the legal deadlines. People were distracted, they lived in different places. A lot of people didn't think about it back then. My appeal and appeal is whether we can, so can Minister Djordjevic and you, Mr. Nerić, have one position, one of the members of this bill, to open the deadline, six months to 12 months, that all those who are not all the Krajina fighters, and all the other fighters, who did not exercise the right to a personal and family disability, to allow them to apply. This does not automatically mean that they will exercise the right to a personal family disability, but it will be decided by the competent medical board, that it is possible for them not to be discriminated against and said, you no longer have the right to do so for the rest of your life. The fifth thing I want to talk about is financing the defendants' defenses for war crimes. I would like to remind my fellow Members and fellow MPs and the public that Croatia, by its Law on the Rights of Croatian Veterans adopted at the end of 2017, has provided one member with the assurance that all members of the Croatian Army and the Croatian Council of Defense charged with war crimes are financed from the budget. I want to visit, say, Canton Sarajevo in his budget for last year, so for 2019, he has allocated 358,000 euros to finance the defence of accused members of the so-called. The BiH Army for War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity. Part of that money goes to pay lawyers, and part of the funding goes to associations that deal with providing free legal assistance. So we are all aware of the fact that most fighters are in a difficult social economic situation and are unable to finance their own defences. On the other hand, we also know that the Croatian prosecutor's office, that the BiH prosecutor's office, are not independent and not biased prosecutors, that these are ethnically motivated prosecutions that are instigating investigations, which bring charges against Serbs without any evidence whatsoever just to justify a false, pointless and absurd thesis that Serbia, JNA and the Serbian people have committed a great aggression against Croatia and BiH. So they just need as many investigations as possible, as many charges as possible, as many convictions to say 2030, 2040 and 2050, so what do you Serbs want? Look, there are thousands of convictions against you, you are indeed a criminal people. So this is a very important thing. We see Zagreb and Sarajevo single out huge funds to fund their fighters' defences. We need to consider whether this law or some other way to help our people and the Krajina fighters and all other defense-funded fighters, especially when we know this fact, I repeat, that these are ethnically motivated justice, ethnically motivated trials, and that the aim is not to determine the truth, not to satisfy justice, but to believe this false and pointless thesis of Serbian aggression. I'd like to mention a few facts in the end. In addition to this first amendment, which I was saying that all members of the Republika Srpska Army have been recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war, he has submitted three more amendments. The second amendment concerns civilian war victims. So this question, I repeat, is very well regulated by the bill, but we have 12 civilian victims of the Krajisnik War, who are not covered by this bill. What's this about? Namely, by the regulation of the former federal state of 12 civilian war people from Krajina, the people who suffered during the Crime Action "Storm" received a personal disability from 2000 to 2012. This provision was abolished in 2013, the rest of the more than 1,000 civilian invalids of war continued under the republic's regulation to receive a personal disability, but these 12 civilian disabled wars from the Krajina, it is rightly disputed and it has been in fact since 2012 and 2013 not receiving a personal disability. I will give an example of Jelena Vukovec from Vrhovina, who was born in 1973, therefore, during the Crime Action "Storm" she was 22 years old. So, she was killed in Plitvice Leskovac, wounded in the leg and hip and she's disabled in the fourth category, 24 hours she traveled so wounded to Banja Luka when she was given medical attention. We have even among these 12 landscaped civilian disabled wars and first category disabled people, so they're all disabled from the first to the fourth category. So I'd like to ask Minister Djordjevic and Secretary of State Neric to see today, tomorrow, how do we resolve this issue so that these 12 civilian victims of the Krajina war are included in order not to be discriminated against, here, but that lasts for seven, eight years. The third amendment refers to extremers who received a personal and family disability, however, went abroad in the meantime. One part of those faces was abolished by a personal or family disability. Please, Mr. Eric, let's see how to allow these people to re-apply and exercise the right to a personal and family disability. So it's not fair and it's not just fair because they went to Australia or returned to Croatia or a European country, or America, to have their right to a personal and family disability lifted. The fourth amendment concerns a category of persons that I will talk more about when there is a debate in particular, and it concerns an out-of-marriage community. So, in the end, I welcome this great effort by the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, to prepare such a comprehensive and comprehensive bill on rights of fighters, military disabled people, civil invalids of war and members of their families, only to appeal and ask that these five, six things that I have told you about, and are related to the Krajina fighters, to the Krajina Pole, to complement and corporate this bill, and I think Serbia would thus send a strong message that it has fully recognised the Krajina fighters, their fair fight for freedom against the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72334	Thank you, Mr. Linta. We no longer have declared word in accordance with Article 98. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word in accordance with Article 96? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72335	Thank you. I must say that patriotism and patriotism are one of the highest values of SNS, unlike Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic, who were ashamed of our troops from the 1990s, who were ashamed of the soldiers of Kosar and Pastric, we are not ashamed of these soldiers, we are proud of these fighters and, as Aleksandar Vukic said, those fighters are the best part of Serbia. It took 27 years for a law such as the Bill on Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities and Victims to be found on the agenda, and we discussed it. In the end, I must add that the yellow tycoon enterprise has done everything not only unrespectingly and ashamed of those who defended our country, but has done everything to set a limit between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj. That's not what Alexander Wolfie did. That's what they did. They are also the most important issue, the Kosovo issue has moved the UN into the EU, for all of it to be a shame. Citizens will recognize the true values, the true patriotic values, the true values of responsibility, and I hope that on April 26th, the elections will have no dilemma. Serbia that wins is Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-25-0.u72336	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to conclude a joint principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 4, 5, 7, 8 from 10 to 28 and from 30 to 35 of the agenda. I thank all the MPs for their participation in the work and, of course, to the ministers Sinisha Mali and Zoran Djordjevic, also to Mr Neric and Mrs Savicic. Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
