ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the twenty-third extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in each decision-making process if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Djordje Milicevic and Zarko Obradovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for decisions in the agenda set out in the request of 154 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the twenty-third extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 154 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the twenty-third extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 3. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted on 18 December 2019; 4. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted on 9 January 2020; 5. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected in the judicial capacity, which was submitted on 14 January 2020; 6. Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who has been filed by the State's major prosecutors since 25 November 2019; 7. Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who has been filed by the State's major prosecutors since 26 November 2019; 8. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commission's 2020 Financial Plan for Securities; 9. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media for 2020; 10. Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Rebalans of the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 and 11. The proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 192 paragraph 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint uniform search be carried out on: a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Court in the courts of general and special jurisdiction; a motion for a decision on the election of judges first elected on 28 October 2019; a motion for a decision on the election of judges first elected on 18 December 2019; a proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected on 9 January 2020; a proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected on 14 January 2020; a proposal for a decision on the election of judges, which was submitted on 14 January 2020; a decision on the election of a deputy public prosecutor, which was submitted by the State's chief prosecutor, as of 25 November 2019; a proposal for a decision on the election of the deputy public prosecutor, which was submitted on 26 November 2019. Another joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision to give consent to the 2020 Commission's 2020 Financial Charter Plan; Proposal for a Decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media; Proposal for a Decision to give its consent to the Rebalancing Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 and a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – none of the abstentions – there is a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been called to attend: Dragomir Milojevic, VSS President Ivan Jovic, VSS election member from the line of judges and VSS deputy president, Tatjana Lagumdzija and Sandra Kulezic, election members of the State Council of Prosecutors, Mirjana Pavlovic, VSS secretary, and Natasa Djelic, head of the Department of Status Affairs of Judges VSS. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected on 28 October 2019; Proposal for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time on 18 December 2019; Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected on 9 January 2020; Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected on 14 January 2020; Proposal for a decision on the election of a deputy public prosecutor from 25 November 2019; Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor from 26 November 2019. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Ivan Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71066	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, you are presented with proposals for a decision on the election of judges, who are first elected to the judicial office, and the VSS decided at its meetings on 9 and 24 December 2019 and on 10 January 2020. The High Court of Justice has published and announced the choice of judges for the basic court in Piroth, the Commercial Court in Valjevo, the Commercial Court in Leskovac, the Business Court in Novi Sad, the Commercial Court in Zrenjanin, the Commercial Court in Somboro, the Business Court in Užica, the Commercial Court in Začak, the Commercial Court in Novi Sad, the Commercial Court in Zrenjanin, the Commercial Court in Panchev, the Business Court in Kragujevac, and the Commercial Court in Belgrade, and the Administrative Court of First and Third Court in Belgrade, as well as the Court of Justice in Lebanon. The expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates is determined on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Judges and the Rules on the Programme and the method of laying down examinations assessing the professionality and competence of candidates first elected. The High Council of the Judiciary has made a decision on the education of committees for selecting judges for the abovementioned courts, and the Commission has conducted an exam for candidates and also held talks with all candidates, and has established a list of candidates published on the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. On the basis of Article 49, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Law on Judges, the Council obtained an opinion on the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates from the authorities and organisations in which the candidates work, while for candidates who come from the order of the judicial associates, or assistants, it obtained the opinion of the session of all the judges from the court from which the candidate originates, as well as the opinion of the session of all judges directly to the High Court. In accordance with Article 50(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on judges for candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants also provided an assessment of the work. On the basis of Article 13(3), Law on the High Council of the judiciary and Article 51(1). The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Court of Justice established proposals for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of 70 candidates, by proposing for a judicial office in the Court of Justice in Piroth, the candidate first elected: Marija Aleksic, a judicial assistant at the basic court in Piroth and Jelena Boskovic, a judicial assistant at the basic court in Piroth. For the Business Court in Valjevo – Milan Pantic, a judicial assistant at the Business Court in Valjevo. For the Business Court in Leskovac – Aleksandra Denić, judge's assistant at the Business Court in Leskovac. For the Business Court in Požarevec – Mila Savic Rajčić, Judge of the Business Court in Požarevec. For the Commercial Court in Sombor – Mile Vranesh, Judge Assistant Court of Commerce in Sombor. For the Business Court in Užica – Marija Koadidinović, judge assistant of the Business Court in Užica. For the Business Court in Cačka – Ivana Mihajlović, Judge Assistant of the Court of Commerce in the Kingdom. For the Business Court in Novi Sad – Snezana Obradovic, Judge Assistant Court of Commerce in Novi Sad and Isidor Janić Turudija, Judge Assistant Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. For the Commercial Court in Zrenjanin – Srdjan Golianin, judge of the Chamber of Commerce in Zrenjanin. For the Business Court in Pancheva – Miljana Belic, Judge at the Business Court in Pancheva. For the Business Court in Kragujevac – Ilija Zinajić, judge assistant at the Business Court in Sombor and Raško Radošević, judge assistant at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac. Te, for the Business Court in Belgrade – Marko Radovic, Judge Assistant at the Supreme Court of Cassation, Biljana Kantar, Judicial Assistant at the Supreme Court of Cassation, Olga Djuradjevic, Judicial Assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Dragana Ivanovic, Judicial Assistant at the Privredna Appellate Court, Tamara Marković, Judicial Assistant at the Privredna Appellate Court, Mirjana Milanović, Judicial Assistant at the Privredna Appellate Court, Svetlana Grujić Marković, Judicial Assistant at the Privredna Court in Belgrade, Jelena Cvetinović, User of Initial Training at the Judicial Academy, Maja Stokuća, Judge at the Privredna Appella Court of Appeal, and Ljiljana Čolić, Judge at the Pristredno Appellacija Court of Justice. Then, for the Administrative Court in Belgrade, the High Judicial Council proposed to Minja Bikiki, an adviser at the Constitutional Court, and Elena Petrovic, a judicial assistant at the Administrative Court. For the first basic court in Belgrade, Jelena Simanić, lawyer, Bar Association of Belgrade, Vesna Bogosavljević, adviser to the Constitutional Court, Maja Djekić, Judge at the First Basic Court in Belgrade, Ljiljana Andrić, Judicial Assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Jelena Mirasavljevic, Judge at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Ana Bulatović, Judicial Assistant in the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Branka Jevdić, Judicial Assistant in the Higher Court of Belgrade, Ivana Milosavljevlić, User of Initial Training at the Judicial Academy, Milena Posavić, Milosavljević in the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the Republic of Zagreb, the Croatian Court of Justice of the Republic of Zagreb, Mr. For the third basic court in Belgrade, the Council proposes Vladan Kovacevic, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Uroš Popovic, adviser at the Supreme Cassation Court, Jelen Čuk, adviser at the Supreme Cassation Court, Lola Katanić, judge assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade, Iliy Markovic, user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, Marija Djordjevic, judicial assistant at the Higher Court in Belgrade, Rastak Music, judicial assistant in the Higher Court in Belgrade, Nikola Ribać, judicial assistant at the Court of Justice in Belgrade, Todor Brajović, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Begorad, Danko Spajic, judicial assistant in the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Natas Jovanović, the beneficiary of the preliminary assistance in Belgrade's court of justice and justice in Belgrade. In view of the basic court in Leban, the Council proposed Dejan Ilic, a judicial assistant at the basic court in Leskovec, Marija Jovic, a judicial assistant at the Higher Court in Leskovec, Aleksandr Stojanovic, SO Lebana and Aleksandra Stamenković Cvetanovic, a judicial assistant at the primary court in Leban. Thank you for your attention. I think you'll support all proposals in the day to vote on the Supreme Council of the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71067	The word is from Mrs. Sandra Kulezic, election member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71068	Thank you. Dear chairman, honourable MPs, the National Assembly today has two proposals for first election for the deputy public prosecutor in a senior public prosecutor's office and 13 basic public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. A total of 19 candidates have been proposed. Of which is one of the primary public prosecutor's deputies who is currently on a three-year term of office and is again proposed in this procedure for a senior prosecutor, 12 prosecutor's assistant, one adviser at the Justice Ministry, one lawyer, two judicial assistants, one member of the Judicial Academy and one adviser at the State Council of Prosecutors. A deputy Public Prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar was proposed by Baticanin Adnan, deputy Public Prosecutor at the New Pazar Public Prosecutor's Office. Deputy Public Prosecutor in Belgrade's First General Public Prosecutor Ilic Vojkan, prosecutor's assistant at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Rundic Petar, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, Stojanovic Jaksa, prosecutor's assistant at the Third Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Deputy Public Prosecutor in Belgrade's second main public prosecutor, Lecic Ana, prosecutor's assistant at the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Oljačić Cerovic Marta, adviser to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office Filipovic Jovanovic, prosecutor's assistant to the Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. A deputy Public Prosecutor in Belgrade's Third General Prosecutor's Office, Arsnovic Marica, a prosecutor's assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Jeftic Marina, a prosecutor's assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Samuilovic Jelena, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev, was proposed. A Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Smederev Public Prosecutor's Office was proposed by Gole Aleksandar, prosecutor's assistant at the Smederev Main Public Prosecutor's Office. A deputy Public Prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin was proposed by Alexic Dijana, a lawyer, the Vojvodina Bar. Skakic Jasna, prosecutor's assistant at the Central Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica, was proposed. In the main public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac, Budic Aleksandar, prosecutor's assistant in the prosecutor's office, was proposed. In the main public prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar, Fetahovic Azra, a judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Novi Pazar, was proposed. In the main public prosecutor's office in Uzic, Deputy Public Prosecutor, Andzic Marijana, prosecutor's assistant at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic, was proposed. In the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Olivera Mladenovic, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, was proposed. Naskovic Nikola, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis, was proposed for Deputy Public Prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. Smiljanic Pavle, an independent adviser at the State Council of Prosecutors, was proposed as deputy Public Prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Arangelovac. When it comes to the procedure for proposing these candidates, carried out by the State's Major Prosecutor's Office. The procedure was implemented in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, the Rules of Procedure of the State Council of Prosecutors and the Rules of Procedure on the programme and how to pass exams for candidates who were first elected to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The procedure involves first checking the expertise and training through the exams organised by the State Council of Prosecutors' Commissions, then talking to the candidates, and in the procedure of the elections we also obtained opinions from the authorities and organisations in which the candidates are currently working. All of this was taken into account by the State's senior prosecutors during the decision-making process and proposed to you candidates who they consider to have achieved the highest degree of expertise and training of all candidates involved in individual prosecutions. I believe that the proposed candidates will justify our and your trust, and that is why I suggest that you vote on both decisions of the State Council of Prosecutors in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71069	Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71070	Ladies and gentlemen, this time I will try to abide by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the law governing the area of justice. As before, I would like to say that I support the decision of the Committee on Justice of the Republic Assembly which has returned to the process and to check all candidates who have been proposed for the presidents of the courts. Now, let the promoters think a little bit about whether or not some of them are there, which they have suggested under measures? Are they criminals or not? And are these candidates who are worthy and professional and is this the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia that the holders of some judicial functions will perform professionally, securely and legally their duties? Here's a letter I got from the Pirot that the court workers write to me. I believe that other fellow MPs may have been given where they say - our dear representatives think we are obliged to inform you of the following - Judge Jasmina Jovanovic has been proposed for the President of the General Court. This is a scandal, because this is the face of a judge for only three years, she's studied for 11 years, and the average score for six. All-faith-proposer from the High Council of the Judiciary. Congratulations, I'm taking off my hat. Ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues and representatives of the prosecution and the High Council of the Judiciary, as former justice minister and longtime lawyer, can with full responsibility be aware of the weight of my words to declare that the situation in the judiciary is disastrous, because some judges and some prosecutors are throwing out constitutional guarantees of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as they make illegal decisions knowing that they will not be held accountable for such illegal behaviour. I point out the statement by the vice-president of the Serbian People's Party, the mayor of Novi Sad, Mr Vučevic Milos, in the case of former Minister Bubal, when he publicly referred the issue to the judge who reached the verdict, by which Minister Bubalo was released of criminal responsibility "Are you making a verdict on behalf of the people or on behalf of thieves and criminals", finished the quote. As with Belgrade's First Basic Court Judge Dragan Marcetic, who in case 6742/17 forged the facts and thus damaged the defendant Bescaric by 50,000 euros, but was, instead of taking responsibility, promoted as a reward for such treatment to be a judge in the Higher Court in Belgrade. Namely, constitutional guarantees to which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees every right to a fair trial from an impartial court, as attributed by Article 32(1) to the right to equal protection, the rights to court and other state bodies to Article 36(1) and the right to prohibit discrimination, Article 21(1) and (2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If constitutional guarantees fall under the human rights corpus, they enjoy triple protection in order to be effective, and the lowest level of protection is the request for the exemption of the judge or prosecutor from the proceedings in which they are handled, which are submitted to the President of the Court or to the Public Prosecutor in the event that the unlawful treatment offends the above-mentioned constitutional guarantees of the party in the proceedings, but which the protection is ineffective, because the Presidents of the Courts refuse such protection on a regular basis, as well as the public prosecutors, and as regards the second level of protection, which is also ineffective. Discipline applications against judges or prosecutors who have been reported also end up in the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, who do not have the capacity to establish or maintain legality in the conduct of judges and public prosecutors, which I already spoke of at the National Assembly session, held on 22 October 2019. When I called on the VSS representative's report, which is also the president of the VCC, that 831 disciplinary applications were submitted during 2016, in 2017 588 disciplinary applications, and in 2018 582 disciplinary applications. So, in the first six months of 2019, 242 disciplinary applications, of which 31 were taken into work, which means 2210 disciplinary applications ended in the drawer, waiting for obsolescence to take place, in order to avoid responsibility, which means that the VSS thus protects judges from disciplinary responsibility and thus prevents the achievement of the above-mentioned constitutional provisions of the parties in the court proceedings, which also applies to Judge Dragan Marcetic, whom the VSS pretends is not known to carry out those decisions. Of course something like that can't be done for beautiful eyes. However, the third level of protection of constitutional safeguards is ineffective, as public prosecutors do not prosecute judges and prosecutors against whom they regularly file criminal charges for violation of the law by the judge, the public prosecutor and his deputy, referred to in Article 360. The KZ Republika Srpska, with delays that judges are independent and independent in making their own decisions, serves them as an excuse to protect these judges. In view of the provision of Article 5. The Law on Judges makes it perfectly clear that judges will be called to account for the decisions made in the event of a criminal offence by the judge, including the public prosecutors, who rejects criminal charges in that criminal offence, has at least evidence of the grounds for suspicion that the offence of the abuse of the official position of Article 350 has been committed. The KZ Republic of Serbia, because in this case it is obliged to prosecute the suspect, as it really clearly prescribes the provision of Article 6. The Code of Criminal Procedure, so the team is rather obliged to prosecute judges, if there is evidence in a plea for reasonable suspicion, which leads to a direct prosecution, without investigation, as in the case of Judge Dragana Marchetic, has been dismissed from criminal charges, but without allowing the right to appeal and to continue the trial and to make a legal decision. I would also like to appeal to the statement by the president of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who also pointed to certain problems in the Serbian judiciary. However, when it comes to making court decisions, judges are independent and independent of making court decisions, but judges and prosecutors are not independent of making illegal decisions, and for these illegal decisions, neither one of these institutions reacts. As you've seen, how many disciplinary applications have been filed, there's nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia had a judiciary that could be compared to the most developed and decorated judiciary in Europe. However, after changing certain laws and coming to power in 2000, the Serbian judiciary has fallen to its knees since then to this day. The problem with justice is intricacies. I would like to appeal to the statement by the President of the High Court in Belgrade, Mr. Aleksandar Stepanovic, who said this, quote: "If a judge working on organised crime cases in six years has 78% of the decisions suspended, that means he is not doing a good job." Moreover, there is insufficient consideration in the conduct of the taxpayer procedures and does not concern the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I will mention once again that in the bankruptcy proceedings, the state had to pay 280 million in the budget for the criminal proceedings. Who's to blame? The holders of judicial functions are guilty, and it is primarily the President of the Court's fault, which within the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice did not exercise control and monitor cases, when scheduled, when resolved, whether it is tried within a reasonable period of time, whether the indictment by the prosecutor was established or not. Ladies and gentlemen, you have proposed candidates from both the D.A.'s office and the High Council of the Judiciary. However, you have introduced a practice not to deliver to the Members of Parliament the evaluations of these candidates' proposals and how many years they have studied. Here, this example, if it's true, from Pirot, says everything and doesn't need much to talk about. Nepotism in the judiciary. We should investigate how many sons, daughters, sons-in-law are in the judiciary, how many of them are enrolled at the Judicial Academy, and that's a ticket to get into court. That can't be. At the head of the judicial functions comes you people who have no dignity, a lot of capacity, neither have integrity nor have expertise. We used to have the presidents of the court's authority. The high council of the judiciary should be abolished. Cancel and return to the original state, as it was before. It's known earlier who proposed candidates for both judges and prosecutors. But there's one thing I have to point out, that the Department of Justice and the National Assembly, is that they're detached by the introduction of the American system into our judicial system. The Minister of Justice or the President of the Republic should appoint judges and prosecutors, not that one group, one group of people, one society sits in the High Council and they agree – e, now, we will make a list of candidates and propose these, you know, he's good, he's good, he's my father, he and he, my sisters, my aunts, my aunts, etc., very good. Now, give us the data of the one you're proposing and the one you've proposed before, whether it has anything to do with the holders of the judicial functions. It's a family society, it's a family community, and you see, if everything is handed over to the High Council of the Judiciary, and if it surrenders to the State Council of Prosecutors, and the law of the Assembly is denied, scandal, even worse condition than it is. Therefore, it must return to what was previously in order for us to have a quality judicial system. Since 2000, as you know, we've had party court presidents. If he belonged to DOS, he's the one who's supposed to be president of the court. As far as the exception institute is concerned, it's as if it doesn't exist. I only have one case that the President of the First Basic Court ruled out a judge because he committed a disciplinary offense. Here, if you have that information, come on. You've seen, about 2,000 disciplinary applications have been filed, but there's nothing out of it. How do you spend taxpayers' money? How much are tourist trips of judicial officials, Tara, Zlatibor, Zlatar, Vrnjačka Banja, Koviljača, Palić? Wait, guys, wait a minute, you've gone too far. Don't spend money on the budget. It is the Minister of Finance's fault, which has not denied you this right, and in the budget I cannot provide for you to go on tourist trips, and leave the court with 20% or 30% of the judges' work. It can't, it shouldn't allow, and huge resources are spilling away. Now I hear you're getting ready to send from the judiciary to sports games. Wait, what sports games? Is this people up to your sports games? Where does that say? Give back ten years of how much money you spent from the budget on the name of these tourist trips. As for the candidates proposed by the State's Chief Prosecutor for Deputy Public Prosecutor in Pancheva, Mrs. Samul Jelen, I support the proposal. Ten, twelve years that child was waiting, and it worked really well, and I personally know what quality is, and that it was finally time for her to be the deputy public prosecutor. I reiterate and point out, I support the decision of the Committee on Justice and the party in power that has returned, gentlemen, all the candidates you have proposed. Get those candidates to the BIA to check it out. Have them check out the public security and the BIA who these zombies are you're proposing and if there are any of them that are under your control. Don't do this. Guys, stop this practice. This can't take the state of Serbia anymore. You have a case in Pancev, Deputy Public Prosecutor Medakovic Goran. Two years can't come before the court to prosecute the Panchev tycoon. He personally influenced the report and the opinion of the Belgrade City Institute for Public Health. He has repeatedly tried to change his skill finding so that his friend, if he's his friend, but everything indicates that he has connections, doesn't get convicted and that criminal charges become obsolete. What's the General Court doing in Panchev? What's the D.A.'s office doing? What's the D.A.'s office doing? What's the President of the Supreme Court doing? Do they control it? Why isn't a trial scheduled after two years? You know, it's a tycoon, a man who has money and does everything, and he has a lawyer to defend him, against whom 34 criminal charges were filed, but that's why he was protected by the prosecution, he had a godfather in that prosecution. Gentlemen, this must be interrupted. Most people and holders of judicial functions are both in court and in the prosecution honorably, but you have to with criminals and corrupt people from the judiciary to clear up, you yourself or you have to do it by the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71071	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. (Petar Jojic: In the end, if you will allow me...) My friend Jojić, you've exceeded your time, I can't believe it. Ask for a word, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71072	Mr. Vice President, if you'll allow me, on behalf of the SRS, I also believe that a law on the abolition of public enforcement should be passed as soon as possible. These robbers, people who take ten times the price and their tariffs are from court tariffs. Therefore, this evil should be abolished, for 5,000 objects sold and kicked out of their houses and apartments. It's a robbery, it's thieves. That gang needs to be removed first of all from the legal system. I am free to say this – therefore, Mr. Vice President, it is necessary to take the tariff of the court and tariff applicable by the perpetrator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71073	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71074	I thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, the State Council of the Prosecutor's Office, at the very beginning of the presentation, on the points of the agenda that we are discussing today, I am telling you that with this discussion, I want to affirm what is good in these proposals, to draw attention to some anomalies that have been emerging for a long time, when it comes to applying rules and rules on the evaluation of the work of judges, while at the same time giving support for the proposed candidates as you have proposed today. Dear representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, given that you know that the Regulation on criteria, criteria, procedure and bodies to evaluate the work of judges and the President of the Court is complemented by the rule on which you make decisions on candidates you refer to as judges, I must draw attention to the fact that there are a number of problems which relate precisely to this Regulation. They're not small, and they're causing serious consequences. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about the fact that, according to this regulation, you have the proposals for candidates that you subsequently assess by the rules on which you give a final assessment based on which it is decided here in the Serbian Parliament on who will be the holder of the judicial function. So, this rule, as well as the previous Rules of Procedure, is kind of a generator whether we choose a good or bad judge, though, on the basis of this Regulation, not us, but the High Council of the Judiciary, but the question of the validity of this Regulation is raised. The esteemed colleague, Jovičić, in the Regulation, and in Article 16 of this Regulation, states that the quality of the work of judges acting in proceedings, here in the second instance procedure, is therefore a matter of courts of the second degree or courts of the Republic rank, the assessment, the value of their work being linked during the decision-making process. So it's said to be successful, and this is an extremely successful judge who made over 80% of the decisions within 30 days, and the rest of the decisions within 90 days. Dear colleague Jovičić, we will agree with one fact that neither you nor I can doubt, which is – is it possible to derrogate the law by regulation? The time to make a decision of 30 days is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Prosecution. The law on litigation prescribes a time limit for making a decision of eight days, and in complex cases it is possible to allow an additional 15 days to make decisions, that means no more than 23 days. Then tell me why this rule has been violated by the Law of Prosecution and it has been said that the decision can be made within 30 days and even that the judge can be assessed extremely successfully? So, the Law on the Prosecution, the deadline of 23 days, was violated, he made a decision within 30 days, and he says, the rest of the decisions are not until 90 days. Is it possible it takes someone three months to make a verdict? Should these be the ones to whom the decision applies? Given the availability of justice and access to courts, citizens will respond to this, and that is logical. The question arises whether this rule is legal, or constitutional at all, because it has in some way harshly violated the provision of a law on litigation that is an imperial norm. Furthermore, what is very problematic, he says – if he has made it within 30 days, therefore, in an illegal period, an 80 per cent decision is assessed extremely successfully. What about the judge who did 100% or 120%? Well, he's being rated with great success. Is there a big paradox? In my opinion, there is. For what? So because this one works with 80%, the continuity will make 80% of the decisions, his cases will pile up, his objects will grow, there will be a huge number of cases. And what happens in practice, distinguished colleagues? Well, then the president of the court has to confiscate the cases from him to update it and give it to this judge who works with 120% of his time. What does that mean? This means that that good judge or successful judge will be constantly buried in the case of bad judges. And who's being stimulated here? Neither. This one is destimulated by the very fact that it's bad, because he hasn't made decisions within the deadlines, within which he has to make a decision. Unfortunately, there are a number of old cases, which means that even a program on solving old cases is not respected, and thus releases courts from old cases. What's further detimulative? It's depressing that this judge who doesn't have an update is even said that if his decision-making time is 30 to 90 days, he's troubled again, if he's made 55% to 80% of the decisions, it's a success assessment. You know what, it's really absurd, to be successful, or extremely successful if he made half the decisions, or up to 80%, or slightly above 80% of the decisions. The anomaly is amazing. During that time, he will be given the best professional associates who will try to update him, who will try to raise his quality of work, and then these good judges, who have an outstanding percentage of performance, will be left without the expert associates who help them, or will have, as they are figuratively said, half the associates. Then who's been stimulated here? If I were a judge and I were working with 100%, 120% of the cases, I would think at all whether I should run to a higher court, or to apply for a higher court, because I'm obviously not going to be objectively evaluated. I can do a lot of work, but that's why a colleague who worked incomparably will have the same status as me. I think there's a kind of discrimination that's generated by this Regulation. I just need to draw attention, this has nothing to do with you or the High Judicial Council, this has to do with the Regulation, and this Regulation has to change, because if this Regulation doesn't change, then these anomalies will continue. I'll tell you what's next, as a consequence of this next anomaly. The same profit has judges who work with the rating successfully 55% or 80%, and judges who work extremely successfully with 100%, has this 100,000 salary and this 100,000 salary, and this one will work for years, years, and nothing will be sanctioned, and simply, will come into the situation to be proposed for the candidate and to be discriminated against by the High Council in some way and by his application for the holder of judicial functions in some higher court, and thus we come into a situation to discriminate against the one who is extremely successful. Why? Because you don't have the information that connects to the judge's work. I'm sure you don't have it, because you don't have it in your personal list. The judge's personal list doesn't say anything from judge Pere's 20 cases were taken, because he allowed over 500 cases to be in the works, and it was assigned to another judge. It doesn't say anything in the I.D., and you don't see it. Just because it's clouded somewhere, then we get into a situation where there's space, without your guilt for volunteering, for subjectivity, for anything else. What's going on? It happens that sometimes, based on this Regulation, a judge who in no way has the quality and percentage of success as a good judge is chosen. What's the problem? The problem is that we've allowed this kind of normism, this regulation, to allow no one to suffer sanctions. If we had regulated the question of punishment, so that the penalty of a judge who had failed to work with 20% of the profits, and if with that 20% of the rewards of the successful person, the pay fund would not be touched, the profit fund would remain the same, nothing would have changed, but then the one who was unsuccessful would have realized that he had to raise the quality of his work, and the one who was rewarded would also be as stimulated to continue to work well. However, such a way of norming, unfortunately it does not exist. What we're also talking about, when we're talking about the judge's work, there's a problem here. We come into a situation where when it comes to solving old objects, we have objects that are three, five, ten years old. The program of solving old cases requires that all courts be released from the old cases. Now let's be completely objective, realistic, is this program about solving old cases respected? In some ways, yes, but to the extent he had to be respected, he didn't. We only have courts of republican rank that consistently apply this programme of old cases, I mean resolution programs and solve them, but what it's worth when first-degree judges and first-degree courts are still piling up. You still have judges who are in charge of more than 500 cases in work, you are aware of it and I know it, but this problem appears year after year, and in no case is anything that would radically cut off that phenomenon, which implies the lack of urgency of the courts, and hence the mistrust of citizens in courts when it comes to decision-making speed and decision-making speed, i.e. the legal time limit for decision-making. Furthermore, what is very important to point out is the fact that, when the judges work, we have two more facts to bear in mind. First of all, the quality of the judge's work has always been well watched and evaluated. The quality of the work of the judges means a small number of abolished verdicts, which means that he has worked in quality, which means that his judgments have been confirmed and that the ruling on the law survives, which is why citizens should be assured that the court has made a legal and fair decision. The question arises when you look at statistics how many judges are with a large number of suspended verdicts, and that these judges are still without any sanctions. When I speak sanctions, I speak in this sense of how they raise the awareness on the one hand, on the other hand the quality of their work. The quality of their work is measured through the quality of his decision, through the quality of his judgment. Did he rule by law, whether he applied material law, whether he was wrong about procedural norms, so he passed a legal verdict. I'm convinced that there are not a small number of judges, I don't want to generalize, there are those and most of them who do very well, but there are judges who continue to have such performances, to call them, the qualities, to remain as holders of judicial functions. During that time, neither the president nor anyone else in the courts is instigating anything against such judges who apparently do not perform their judicial function in the way that the law requires them to. What is important for the candidates' proposals, I would like to highlight a few good assessments and, in some ways, to support everything that has been proposed here, given that my predecessor has pointed out some of the proposals he thinks are good, so I will also assess in the same way the very good proposals of the candidate proposed by the State's Major Prosecutors, in particular the General Prosecutor's Office in Uzic, as Vice-President of the General Court of Uzica. Then, for the judges of the Court of Commerce in Uzic and the Court of Commerce in Belgrade. Why am I saying this? It is a very good practice, which finally pays attention to those to whom this attention should always be devoted, and these are expert court associates. They've been people who for years, decades, and even more do a lot of jobs to replace the judges' jobs. They take on their burden what the judge does. They make excellent quality decisions. We, when we read, see the signature of Judge Pera Perić or Mike Mikic, behind that verdict is the name and last name of the judge, but essentially made that verdict in an extremely good way by an expert associate. It's something that's not in doubt. For this reason, it is your support that you have given such fellow Members the chance and I hope that this trust that we show by choosing for the holders of judicial functions that they will justify it. Why? Because they have shown their quality by working for many years as expert court associates. Now there is one problem, which is that the evaluations given by the College of Judges, i.e., I may be wrong, to correct me, that is, that these evaluations are also very flexible, i.e. flexible, and for professional associates, it seems to me that the evaluation is – is particularly highlighted, and for professional associates, just as I pointed out to the anomalies in the Rules on the evaluation of the work of judges – particularly points out, it gives the assessment literally to all and to those who have exceptional success in the work and those who do not express that success. You can't see it, because you're not in that court and then you can't evaluate it, but it has to be evaluated by the President of the Court, but the President of the Court for solidarity, and those judges who are colleagues, they say -- we'll give everyone a grade -- especially the one that stands out. What does that mean? This means that I will give an assessment – it is particularly prominent, and a colleague who has made five decisions, five convictions and a colleague who has done 55 convictions and both – is particularly prominent. You can't see that. I may have been a little banalizing right now, but that's true. These are facts and then we have a situation in which they are rated – especially the good and bad candidate, and then we, as MPs, are somewhat in some kind of delusion, whether the proposed candidate is now in favour or not. Based on these suggestions, we'll give you support, that's not controversial. Whether those supports are based on arguments is now a big question mark. Anyway, I'm confident, and from the point of view of the profession I'm dealing with, that these candidates who are here are very good candidates. I mentioned Uzice, I mentioned the Commercial Court of Belgrade, I mentioned professional associates. For example, for the Commercial Court in Belgrade are mostly professional associates of the Court of Appeal, extremely good. He is an expert associate of the Supreme Cassation Court, Marko Radovic, an exceptional young legal expert, one of the best, perhaps. So, all this stuff that's been suggested really enjoys support because it's well-founded and experiencedly justified, I have absolutely no problem here. Let's say, Andzic Marija in Uzic, at the Privred Court in Uzic, Mary is also, we have candidates who are very good, but respected colleagues from the State Council of the Judiciary and the High Council, without the intention of turning the blame on power, there are many situations and lots of space where we have a candidate who is worse than the candidate who could have been proposed. I'm saying again, I'm not breaking the blame, I'm talking about being given a poorly standardised way of grading both judges and professional associates. If these rules don't change, then we'll still be in big trouble, then we'll still be in a situation where, since there are a lot of non-legislators here, who aren't lawyers, who aren't part of the judiciary, come into the situation to say, we support, there's no problem, we believe, but that's why God will be damaged by the one who certainly had both the chance and the opportunity and fully established, completely justified, he didn't get it and he couldn't take advantage of it. I thank you, President, for your attention. In any case, support for the proposed candidates stands. What I've pointed out is extremely well-intentioned. What I've pointed out is I've just pointed out with one sincere desire that future anomalies like this don't show up and I believe that's how it's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71075	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go. Based on what, my colleague Jojic? (Petar Jojic: So you heard what he said. He didn't mention you one time. Comrade Bacevac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71076	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, for us in the SDP is a great rule that there is no economic development and a fair social order without determined respect for the rule of law and effective protection of the rights of all citizens of our country. We are aware that the judicial authority of the citizens is probably the most important, because everything that is wrong with the citizens they ask to be corrected in court. We know that the citizens of Serbia are also aware that our coalition, in what state the Serbian judiciary has found, is best shown by the number of pending judicial cases, let me say, the process and one figure, shown by the Court's High Council in 2018, that indeed a huge number of judicial cases that have lagged behind from the past and that which we all know to the maximum that justice is slow but reaching in the Serbian judiciary from the beginning of the XXI century could be translated into that justice is a dispute but attainable. Unfortunately, we have found Serbia's judiciary in one catastrophic state, especially the major damage caused by the 2009 judicial system, where, as we are already coming up with information about economic loss, we have spent a lot of time, but it is said somewhere and about 11 billion dinars have been needlessly thrown into a failed reform and this is something that has welcomed us as responsible authorities in both mandates. Of course, a lot has been done and it's been tried and done, practically, to fix a lot of things in this field. Today, the number of court cases that have not been resolved has fallen to nearly half, meaning from almost 1,701,580 to almost half, that the length of the proceedings has also been halved and that if it was in 2012, the court proceedings lasted on average for 534 days, 2017, it was 299 days. Today, it is even shorter, which is a sign that we have managed to, first of all, by having a proper relationship with the judiciary, not by affecting it politically, but by empowering the judiciary as one of the very important branches of the government of this country, it has managed to make some kind of shifts. As for the judicial infrastructure, you and the citizens know well that more has been done in the past few years than in the last 50 years, the Court of Justice in Belgrade has been restored, the Court of Justice in Kragujevac ends, etc. indeed many infrastructure buildings in which our judges work have been restored. The conditions are much better and that's something to be commended for too. Also, they are preparing to continue to change further the improvement of the judicial authority, and that is something that we Social Democracy Rasim Ljajic will really insist on because for us justice and justice society is one of the basic party postulates and the basic postulates of life that we want to improve I apologize to my colleagues, I have not bothered anyone, as far as I think. I listened very closely to you, so I would ask for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71077	Continue your colleague, Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71078	I will move on to what I really am, I will say, the most interested, which is the national representation of national minorities in judicial bodies, something the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia insists on, Article 77, and then Article 46(2). The Law on Judges, Article 82(5). Public Prosecutor's Law, Article 15. Framework Conventions on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, etc. etc. The constitution and the laws of this state confirm and demand that national minorities in the areas where they live, in the percentage of which they have it to be repainted to the judicial institutions of this country and I have talked about it many times and I will repeat it many times, because I firmly believe that the participation of all justice and division of responsibility is one of the best foundations and pillars for empowering this state, in general. In that sense, I will also commend these two solutions that we have for the prosecutions in Novi Pazar. First of all, we have a proposal for a deputy public prosecutor at the New Market Public Prosecutor's Office. There is a proposal, and here I will agree with the exhausted and quality debate of counterpart Neda Jovanovic, where one person who has been an expert associate for 10 years, named Fetahovic Azra, proposes to be the deputy public prosecutor. I know her, as well as Adnan Bacican, who is also proposed, but I know people from the reading room, and I know it's really honorable and valuable people. I called and asked about the relevant Azra Fetahovic and heard best from the president of senior courts, Izet Suljovic, Elvir Dedić, Sladjana Colovic, where she worked for 10 years and, as Mr. Neđo said, probably most of the most difficult court proceedings she conducted, wrote decisions and so on. Indeed, she has gained a serious trust in them, and therefore she is best rated, so I will also be very pleased to support my parliamentary group, and I believe my coalition partners, these people who are of exceptional integrity, of dignity and knowledge, and are still Bosniak nationalities. Given that Bosniaks are in the prosecutions few, which proves that this coalition really wants minorities to work properly and to give them the opportunity to participate and be equal members and high institutions such as prosecutors in this case. I'm sure these people will rightly justify the trust they've been given, and I think that the proposal of young people is of the integrity and dignity of the main thing to raise the judicial authorities of this country to the highest level. At this moment, past the Sandzak area in the courts of the republic, such as the High Court of Cassation, the Administrative Court, the Commercial Court of Appeal, as well as the Court of Appeals in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, do not have any members of the Bosniak nationality. That's something to think about. Not long ago, Bosniaks were represented in the Constitutional Court and was a Bosniak judge, but with the end of his term, not a single Bosniak nationality judge was represented in either court. Therefore, I want us to use this reform of the judiciary in the right way and allow minorities to enter the state system as much as they belong to them under the Constitution and the laws of this state. The strongest link that connects SDP and SNS is certainly an unfavourable fight against corruption and thieving, which has led our country to the limits of survival, a fair relationship with its citizens, as well as a special concern for the poorest part of our society, the construction of the rule of law and the rule of law, is our common goal and imperative. The division of responsibilities and obligations is the best way to achieve our common goal, a more developed, fairer and prosperous Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71079	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71080	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have spoken more than once about this subject and the first thing I want to say is that there is a saying that the right role of justice is to do no harm to anyone. I started two of my presentations with words - judges should judge by law as it is written in law. That applies to the prosecutors. There's nothing else they should do. It's an appeal to us who make laws. Is that so? The MP cannot be called to criminal and other responsibility for an opinion or vote when performing his post. He cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility for an opinion or vote when performing his post. My colleague Atlagic knows, twice I've been called against the law by the court, it's Article 103. The Constitution and such a member has been incorporated into the Law on the Assembly, is that right to fellow Martinovic? Twice, Your Honor, you have violated the law at my expense twice. What are ordinary citizens supposed to think? What are they supposed to expect? What happened to the judges who violated the Law on the Assembly and the Constitution? They, burdening me with breaking the Constitution and the law, no doubt. It says, open the Constitution and the Law, and say that judges should judge as it says in the law, as it says in the Constitution, but in my case it wasn't. What happened to the judges who did this and who received as evidence a copy of the National Assembly's stenograms with my speech, and in the latest version they received a video of my presentation at the National Assembly session? Maybe someone likes me or doesn't like me. Maybe you have some special law that the Constitution and the rules don't apply to me. What did the High Council of the Judiciary do about it? Nothing. You probably congratulated them. I now hesitate to challenge, which judge to challenge. Here, I don't want any. I don't want any. I will challenge the High Council of the Judiciary, apart from the Justice Minister and the Chairman of the Justice Committee, because they are here by function, I challenge this other one with the right. For a long time, I thought that the parts of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the parts of the Court of Justice of theOUR were within the Democratic Party, and now I've been doing a little bit of correcting myself. The judiciary is independent of this authority, that's what I'm saying, but from the former government, I'm not sure for a long time. But lately some parts seem to me like a str, it's an independent trade shop. I'm afraid that's a lot of contracts, and don't think that corruption, at least you who work in the judiciary, is only when someone gets money, corruption and nepotism, you have three kinds of corruption: white, gray and black. Exchange of services is corruption. In the next period, and I believe in the future meeting, I'll read to you once and for all who made a deal with whom and how he settled, who are the nepresms in question. It is almost amazing for me that the Commission is composed of three members of the High Council of the Judicial Council to vote for one judge unanimously, and the next day, at a session of the High Council, parts of the Commission are voting against. So, in that case, he voted against himself. I'm interested in what the motive was? I don't want to go in there because I don't have enough evidence. It says nice here. Here, this is the answer to the High Judicial Council. This is the esteemed Miloevich. He says nice when a judge can be resolved for an act that makes him unworthy of his judicial functions - when he unprofessionally performs his duties, if he violates the Constitution. Mr. Martinovic, is that right? When he violates the Constitution and the law and invites the MP to be held accountable for his opinion, does he perform his post unprofessionally? He says - or he's unworthy of judge functions, the work makes him unworthy. He says-- and if it's a violation of the law by the judge. In such situations, the judge is relieved. One of the judges from Kragujevac, I think the woman was someone, we solved her, but she was fostered by an assistant in the Court of Appeal, in haste, in channels I don't need to deal with right now, but it doesn't mean I won't do it. My question was Judge Majic. It deals more with politics than all the political leaders combined. Does that make him an unworthy judge? He's more politically involved than we are. He is more on television channels, in political debates than several political leaders combined. Here, from Mr. Martinovic, me and Mr. Orlic appeared together several times in the media and on the political line. You have a pedophile case. Judge Majic reached a verdict to release a 26-year-old pedophile because he promised a girl who remained pregnant at 13 years of age. Is that true? Somebody say it's not true, and if it's true, is it a violation of article 180? Criminal code? If that's a violation of article 180. A criminal code, that you can't promise a 13-year-old girl, is that a violation of the law by a judge? I don't know what my colleagues think, but I think it's a difficult violation, a team before he said it was about the Roma and that it was more or less normal, because they didn't know it wasn't punishable. He's got that Roman, he doesn't release ignorance, is that what it was, and if ignorance doesn't release potential culprits and ordinary citizens, I guess that's what the judge gets, and I guess that's a violation of the law by the judge? Liberation of the Gjilan Group, 11 Albanian terrorists. Eleven Albanian terrorists were released by Judge Majic and Hadziomerovic. They decided to be released. So, 80 Serbs killed, 250 tortured by the method of taking a soul. Here's this -- the release of maniacs who promised a 13-year-old girl, the scandalous decision of the Court of Appeal shocked everyone. You could read it in public, I don't have to say it all, but it's my obligation to the victims, because they've been hurt. When a judge harms the victim, if that's what it was, it's the basis for breaking the law. If he did it against the law, if he broke the law and did damage to that 13-year-old girl, then it's considered a violation of the law by the judge and that's a condition for resolution. On the side of politics. There's the Gjilan group. It's all there and now I have the Supreme Court's position. Mr. Milojevic is the president there, is that right, Mr. Martinovic? It says that the application for the protection of the legality of the Gnjilan Group's verdict by the Court of Appeal, Hadziomerovic and Mr Majic and the legal application for the protection of legality says that there have been violations of the law, I have the position of the Supreme Cassation Court, to the harm of the damaged, and for the benefit of the accused. Because for the benefit of the accused, the trial is not repeated. It is so within the law, but the law also states that the Supreme Court of Cassation estimated that it was an illegal verdict in favour of the villains and to the harm of the victims. So, at the expense of those brutally murdered 80, let's see if there's any dignity. Anyway, it was solved by Albanian terrorists being freed. Pavel Bulatovic. With antipathy, Montenegro looked to the defence minister and the Serbian Army officer to pay tribute to the dead, Pavl Bulatovic, who was killed 20 years ago. As far as the investigation is concerned, God doesn't know, but it's mine to stand up for it. Is it possible that someone could kill the Secretary of Defense without the D.A. for 20 years finding out who did it? We have a drug dealer who ordered the murder, which was committed, and the perpetrator confessed and sought protection. The D.A. missed it. An arrest warrant has been lifted and we can now expect mobsters, encouraged by it, to commit even more crimes on Serbia's territory. The court should protect the innocent and punish the guilty. The D.A.'s office, too. Do you gentlemen have the impression that the court was protecting a 13-year-old girl and punishing a 26-year-old pedophile? Do you have the impression that the court protected 80 victims by 11 Albanian terrorists, who have been liquidated by the most violent, tortured by another 250 or how many more? Do you have the impression that the court was protecting the innocent and punishing the guilty? I don't have that impression. So, I think our judiciary is the weakest point and our citizens think we're responsible for all court proceedings? What I am asking, if it is feasible, of the Justice Department and the Justice Committee, that in every judicial unit, in every municipal court, if there is no such thing in every other court, there is something like a ballot box, that citizens who are being tried or citizens who are witnesses, who are entering the court, can put their complaints and objections in that box, that it is occasionally opened, that students of law, let's say, make reports and submit documentation to the Justice Committee, see in which direction our prosecution is going, our judiciary, how satisfied our citizens are with the judgments, probably those who lose the court are, but let's see how they judge and what objections they have on a number of judges, on a certain number of prosecutions, to obtain at least a clear insight into what happens to us in the judiciary when they are complaints we get from citizens, every day, I don't know how many other colleagues, but there are no complaints. In the end, I'll quote Zoran Djindjic. Whenever we say something and comment, it's considered a pressure on the judiciary. When Judge Majic interferes in our business... He's more political-looking than I am. When he interferes with our business, nothing happens to anyone. If we comment on the verdicts that are a few years old, then we press, then Majic rises, the High Council of the judiciary rises, various associations arise, etc., which print magazines. There are more conflicts of interest than in politicians, etc., not to speak. He's got a hook and a hoax out of the judiciary. Everyone like this, like, you've been commenting on St. Mayan, etc. What if I commented on him, the verdicts he made on Albanian terrorists? It's my obligation to the victims. What if I commented on his verdict to a 13-year-old who was promised a face, I'm not going to mention names, 26-year-old? Was that a violation of the law to damage the damaged? Of course it is. Citing Djindjic, he says, "The judicial independence is not divine, the judges are independent of crime, but not of the law." Divine independence in the judiciary doesn't exist according to that quote, and that's why I still urge you to fix the situation in the judiciary as much as you can, try to punish the only guilty and protect the innocent, because there are far more innocents, and they judge both your work and our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71081	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71082	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and the VSS, today we have before us proposals for decisions relating to the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial functions and decisions relating to the election of deputy public prosecutors. Under the Constitution and the laws, they will ensure that citizens of Serbia have the right to justice and justice and will have the obligation to protect the judiciary, as one of the branches of the government that is independent, but which must certainly be balanced with legislative and executive authority. If we are talking about the efficiency of the judiciary, we can say that there is progress in this regard, so for example in 2017 we had the average length of the trial in Serbia was 360 days, which is a great success if we compare it with some EU member states. For example, in Italy, the length of the court proceedings was 700 days. In this context, the Justice Development Strategy should also be mentioned for the period 2019 to 2024, which is the continuation of the previous strategy for the five-year period and the continuity of further improvement in the efficiency of the judiciary. If we remember the Justice Reform Strategy for the period from 2006 to 2011, when a certain normative and institutional framework was established, we will also remember that it was this strategy that received the most criticism over irregularities, whose consequences we still feel today, and of course regarding the unconstitutional and non-transparent re-election of judges in 2009, as well as the establishment of a court network in 2010, which proved absolutely ineffective. Also, there have been more failures, such as the lack of criteria to evaluate the work of judges and prosecutors. Many bad solutions remain to be corrected by the SNS-formed government. Exactly, the 2013 strategy had to first remove problems so that we could think about the development of justice. Judges and prosecutors who were resolved in 2009, were to be returned to solve the problem of a large number of old cases, but also to establish a new network of courts that were overloaded. If we go back to 2016, we will remember that even then the European Commission has seen progress in the judiciary, especially in the adoption of certain laws, although soon after the presentation of the report, laws on the fight against organised crime and corruption have been passed, and the complete picture was certainly even better on the state of justice in Serbia. The fight against corruption is a strategic priority of the government of Serbia and the ministry of justice, which set out a set of measures, but also a plan of law-making to act on the one hand preventively, on the other hand repressively. For example, in September 2018, I'll remind you, we've passed a lobbying law here that's been applied since September of last year. We have thus met the relevant European standards in preventing corruption. Furthermore, in September of this year, the implementation of the anti-corruption law extending the powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the tightened provisions relating to officials. Also, we have well-rounded the repressive system by adopting the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption. Four regional centres with prosecution departments and police were established. They deal exclusively with corrupt crimes, and the result of their work is more than 13,000 criminal charges and more than 800 convictions. It is obvious that the government's intention is to use anti-corruption mechanisms at full capacity in the fight against crime and corruption. Today, we can say that we are satisfied with the results achieved in recent years in order to strengthen the expertise and independence of judicial holders and better efficiency in the work. The previous several-year period marked also the largest infrastructure investment. Buildings of courts were built in Pozarevc, Pancheva, Raski, Užica, then the Belgrade Criminal Court got its own building. The reconstruction of the Court of Justice in Belgrade has been completed, Kragujevac will also receive a new Court of Justice. Better working conditions will certainly affect the efficiency of courts. Therefore, the Justice Development Strategy for the period from 2019 to 2024, as a concrete development plan, should achieve strategic objectives that improve our judicial system. We need a stable, modern, efficient and responsible judiciary. Most importantly, we have to restore trust in the judiciary in citizens, because trust in the judiciary was just thrown away when the judiciary was neither effective nor stable, because the great influence on the judiciary had a policy, i.e. the current rule of law, in 2009, when judicial reform got the prospect of accounting with political indifferences. The leaders in the judiciary who, by argument and attitude, prevented illegal judicial reform were also removed. Everything was subject to political influences and manipulations, and the judiciary suffered the consequences of law violations and pressures. In 2008, laws were passed that were directly contrary to the Constitution, but they corresponded to a political party that was then in power, of course as a front for a clean-up in the ranks of judges who are politically unthinkable. Everything has been done under good intentions for judicial reform, and in fact with the aim of putting the judicial authority under control by the ruling party then, or DS. For this reason, more than 700 judges have been expelled from work, forced into the street, without any explanation, without any apologies for having their reputation and reputation, honor, dignity and placed under question and work and experience. The consequences of the worst judicial reform in Serbia have, of course, been reflected in the Republic of Serbia's budget, as the abolition of more than 700 decisions on the non-reelection of judges has cost Serbia more than 30m euros in compensation for damages to honour and reputation, lost earnings, etc. On the other hand, the newly elected judges were mostly DS members and sympathisers, who were grateful and loyal of course to the party leaders who had appointed them, thus subject to their influence when making decisions. Very often, rather than by law and direction, it was tried according to party instructions. That kind of unequal court practice is what we do today. The items in which they were unprofessionally, unprofessionally and often ordered to judge have caused new costs for the Republic of Serbia's budget, and citizens have neither been guilty nor obliged to suffer consequences. We often mentioned an example from Vlasotinc, when the then president of the municipality and the chairman of the DS Municipal Committee drew up a list of similar candidates for judges and prosecutors, even stamped it on one side by a party, but on the other hand by the municipal seal, in which they did only one more in a series of abuses. Today we're still fighting it with the kind of frames that stayed from that period, and somehow they're acting just as arrogantly and partyly as they were then. The best example for this is Judge Majic, who violates all ethical and professional norms, abuse of judicial office for daily political purposes. Almost no topic appears in Serbia without it being used as a reason to attack Alexander Vukic or the Serbian or SNS government. The need to be at all costs and the story against Alexander Vukic and the SNS also proved to be the moment we voted here in parliament important changes in the Criminal Code, which are a historic shift in the punishment of murderers and child rapists for life. I'm surprised someone who was against the so-called. "Tiana's Law", who participated in the release of the "Gnillan Group", someone who freed a minor with an explanation that Roma is normal and acceptable behavior, I am surprised that such a man has received a prize that reads – The contribution of the year to Europe. But if we're aware that she also won a rector along with him, then it's clear that the day-to-day policy involved her fingers and influenced the choice of laureates. When we speak to the judiciary and corruption, this relationship can be seen through a significant role of the judiciary in curbing corruption, but also through the emergence of corruption in the judiciary itself. This is one of the most dangerous types of corruption to be seen and to make decisions under pressure and result in illegal decisions. Unfortunately, there are still those who have misused judicial or prosecutorial functions or who are unable to successfully perform their judicial or prosecutorial functions because of the choice of party-like staff. In addition to violating the Codes of Judge Ethics, their illegal decisions are also destroying the judiciary, and so is our country. The judiciary is an important anti-corruption fighter, which establishes and guarantees legal order in the country. Courts must be impartial, independent and efficient and only so will they have authority to awaken trust in the judiciary among citizens. I'm sorry we're not discussing candidates for the presidents of the courts today, but on the other hand, maybe it's better, because who knows what we'd hear about these candidates, given the kind of grudges we've had to hear on the Justice Committee. It is clear to you that I will say that it would be good to conduct competitions more carefully when candidates for the presidents of the courts are at stake, because, in addition to expertise and other conditions, it is very important to have dignity to perform that function. It also raises the question of what about respect for the rules of a politicism that apply to judges and prosecutors, and the High Council of the judiciary has proposed to us a member of a DS board. Not to mention the reasonable suspicions that some candidates are connected to criminal acts that involve abuse of their functions. It is obvious that errors have been made, on purpose or not, I do not want to go into it, but make sure that MPs do their job and follow what the candidates are like. Those candidates will be discussed when it comes to the agenda and a decision on the election of 74 of the president of the court. That is why it happened at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, when a complete proposal of the High Council of the judiciary was rejected, namely the Supreme Council of the Judicial Council for the election of President 74. We must no longer allow candidates who do not meet the conditions, who do not deserve or are not worthy of performing judicial functions. On the other hand, how can we observe this return of the complete proposal? The return of the complete proposal has led all candidates to a very awkward position in terms of reviewing their expertise and other qualities, and I believe that this proposal also contains some good candidates. In such a decision, the Committee on Justice has shown that it wants to preserve the integrity of the High Council of Justice, except that we are all obliged to safeguard the integrity of the National Assembly, as a number of disputes would occur at the session, which would create a bad picture of the whole election process of the President of the Court. I repeat, this is about the election of the President of the Court. Our judiciary deserves quality candidates, professional candidates, and without fear that at any time it will be influenced by any political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71083	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate in order of the MPs declared by word. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71084	Thank you. It is really important that both the judiciary and the prosecution are refreshed with the necessary experts in order to go into full capacity to deal with organised crime, because it is a monster that like cancer eats all of our society. It encourages the fact that it is also the High Council of the judiciary and everyone else that they have proposed people who have both strength and youth and credibility to start some processes. Of course, we agree with candidates who are proposed for public prosecutors or assistant public prosecutors who come from Novi Pazar. We believe that their career so far has shown that they have enough credibility and that they are simply deserved in these proposed places. I am expressing hope that in the future, there will be enough power with such a strengthened position to launch some of the processes that are necessary for this society to really start in that direction, the direction of curbing organised crime, which, unfortunately, we have been exposed to for the past decades to the greatest extent. Very often, this organized crime had its levers in both the judiciary and the prosecution's organs. Of course, when we talk about organized crime, then there are two of our most pronounced aspects of this organized crime. One is classical, which comes from very serious and very well-organized criminal groups. The second is the one who commits this organized crime through public institutions. It is a shame that even today, after perhaps more than 15 years, no prosecution has ever prosecuted more than 20 million estrangements from the New Market budget made by the then mayor Suleiman Ugljanin. That's what the reports were made for. There's evidence for that. That's what was said about millions of eaten kebabs, about exceptional housing from municipal property and a lot of other things. The D.A.'s never dealt with this kind of embezzlement. It's something that should have been done and it's something that's left of a black spot when it comes to the prosecution's work in the Republic of Serbia. Also, this latest example from Tutina, when the municipal government, without any procedures, without any possible legal procedures, sells part of the municipal property that was the cultural center, or House of Culture. It's really something that's outrageous. And it sells past procedures, maltene secretly, outside of any competition, very suspicious customers. It is for us one of the most serious organised crimes that occur in the Republic of Serbia, especially in our environment, i.e. in Sandzak. If we have missed the opportunity to process this deficit from the New Market budget that Mr. Ugljanin made when he was mayor, we must not miss the opportunity to deal with this criminal organization that is in power in Tutin, which, for that reason, sells municipal property and which part of the cultural centre, that is, the House of Culture, sells without any legal flows, thus more than any procedure and which takes some means to do so. By the way, according to the notaries we received from the notaries, one of the cities in the area that excluded most of the building land from municipal property and sold it to various entities in order to simply replace all the deficits in the budget, and this deficit has just arisen or arises in such a way that the budget or public funds of citizens are being drawn up for the sake of the personal interests of those who make up power in this city. The prosecution must be launched, the proceedings must be initiated, and only in this way will the citizens' trust in our prosecution be restored to the judicial authorities, and until that happens, we will still have a problem to convince the citizens that both the judiciary and the prosecution are independent and that the judiciary and the prosecution are working on the benefit of the citizens. This is not about individual crime, this is about someone misusing public resources, public functions and from citizens of the Republic of Serbia and from citizens of Tutin taking away what is their right, even if it is the House of Culture or the Cultural Centre. Here I appeal and call on the prosecution, indeed, to show that they are independent and to show that this is something that must be processed, otherwise all of these changes, all of what we are doing these days, which I am telling you again, in the hope that they will change, that these patterns between the prosecution, certain parts of the prosecution and local ruling tycoons and sheriffs will change, we will give support to all these proposals that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71085	Thank you, Mr. Fehratovich. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. He's not there. The word has Bojan Bag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71086	Thank you, Chairman. Whenever we have a choice of judges or prosecutors on the agenda, I can't help but recall the legal cleanings carried out in 2009 by the DS and its sopranos. I can't help but recall that today's decision by people who, as leaders of one part of the opposition, promise everything just for the return to power, left the Serbian judiciary without more than 1,000 people whose knowledge and experience has been invested in for decades. More than 1,000 honest judges and prosecutors are publicly disgraced and branded as unprofessional, incompetent, corrupt and unworthy to perform judicial or prosecutorial functions for one reason only because they did not agree to be blind listeners to the then government. None of those who today in the Alliance with Serbia promise everything for a crumb of government then rebelled and none mentioned the rule of law, nor the independent judiciary, nor the dignity of those people, since they only cared about personal interest. None of them rebelled by seeing them muddy and demeaning honest people. No one, but literally none of the current Alliance for Serbia leaders has thought of saying at least one word and trying to stop this madness and shameless lynch and persecution. Not only was a shameful and illegal judicial cleaning done at the time, but a network of courts was created that was completely dysfunctional and had nothing to do with reality. The result is that the entire judiciary has been reversed for at least 50 years and has caused more than 30m euros in damage to the state of Serbia and its citizens. That's how much this country cost, and that's how much their pride and pride will cost. I don't know if I need to recalculate how much kindergarten and school could be built for that money, how many child benefits, how many scholarships for students, students and young scientists could be paid, how many children could be treated and cured for that money. Knowing that the Serbian judiciary needs recovery, because of all this I have stated, along with my colleagues from the parliamentary club, I will strongly support the selection of new judges who are first elected to this post, as well as the election of deputy public prosecutor. We have confidence in the proposals that have arrived, believing that this is the best quality that could have been proposed at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71087	Thank you, Mr. Bagby. The word is Mr. Nejo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71088	I thank you, Chairman. Given that, in previous waste of time, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I have not pointed out what seems to me to be some kind of college duty. Of course, support is not controversial and support for the proposals that you have put before us, as MPs, is more than well established. I just need to point out something that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know about the economic judiciary. I won't mind those I won't mention, and I don't want to discriminate on anyone, or anyone to favour, but when it comes to the choice of an economic court, or an economic court in Belgrade, I have to point out that a continuity of good practice, a very good practice, is the fact that from the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, candidates who are professional associates for this court and who have so far justified the confidence of the elections. I have to read them again because I made one lapus. My colleague Jovicic corrected me, but I'm going to make that lapus public right now. Marko Radovic is not an expert associate, but a judicial assistant at the Supreme Cassation Court. Olga Djuradjevic is a judicial assistant in the Court of Commerce. Dragana Ivanovic is a judge's assistant at the Court of Appeals. Tamara Markovic is a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeals. Mirjana Milanovic is also a judicial assistant at the Privredna Appellate Court, as well as Maja Stokuća and Ljiljana Colic. It's about extremely good suggestions. Dear colleagues, and my dear friend, as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and Chairman of the Justice Committee, Petar Petrovic, you all decided together in the best possible way and in this sense you have full support. Of course, I always have to point out my Uzis because it's a city that's always had a crucible for the great bearers of judicial functions. In this case for the Business Court in Uzic, this is Marija Koadinovic, and I have already mentioned the candidate proposal in front of the State's Attorney's Office. This is a great way to avoid any dilemmas, any doubt about the real candidates, and never again what happened to us on the Justice Committee when we were fortunately given an indication of the problems associated with individual presidents, or candidates for the presidents of the courts. Personally, I do not think that the High Council of the judiciary can, by law, call off its decision on the proposed candidates, nor is it possible, nor does the Justice Committee have jurisdiction to impose a position or order the High Council of the Judiciary. My proposal was to reach a final solution through the possible challenge of the proposed candidates, because, dear colleague Jovicic, I am convinced that you are sharing my opinion that those candidates for whom we absolutely do not have a single problem, which fully meets all the requirements regarding dignity, in terms of expertise and quality, and in any other respect. Why would they suffer because of those who have truly sinned against a judicial function, wronged their ethics, wronged their morals, wronged themselves for anything that in any case did not credibly credulize them to be the bearers of judicial functions? I am convinced that the High Council of the judiciary will keep its decision in place, i.e. it is impossible to resolve it by law, because the new competition or anything is stalling us and directing us in one wrong direction, which means that we will maintain the status of the performers of functions indefinitely, and that is to the harm and justice, and hence also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I would like the most likely new assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly to decide as soon as possible to avoid one, in my opinion, anomaly, which is that Serbia should, when it comes to the judiciary, be in the status of performers of long-term functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71089	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Neđo Jovanovic is a man of rich experience and practice, a good knower of procedural law and a good knower of legal technique and legislation. Its appraisals are justified, especially when it spoke about that Regulation on the way of evaluation and points and evaluations and the proposal for candidates. Mr. Jovanovic spoke about decision-making deadlines. I must remind you, Mr. Vice President and gentlemen of the High Council of the judiciary and the D.A.'s office, that until last year, until I asked a parliamentary question, and I got the answer, it was primarily about the rejection of criminal charges, there was a practice that you could file a criminal charges for the fraud of 100,000 euros, that the fraud had deceived you and that the prosecutor had rejected the criminal charges, but had not delivered a solution with an explanation. I, in the sense of the Code of Criminal Procedure, sought an answer to the parliamentary question and got it. I must say that the Republic Prosecutor's Office reacted, so the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, Mr. Goran Ilic, issued a binding instruction and ordered all the prosecutions in the event of the rejection of criminal charges that a solution must be drawn up with an explanation and delivered to the parties. There is another problem with the disciplinary responsibility of prosecutors and judges. Discipline applications are filed, however, the applications are rejected as unfounded, but there is no solution, but are said to be rejected as unfounded. In this respect, the applicant of the disciplinary application is a party to the proceedings, in terms of procedural law. I therefore believe that the High Council of the judiciary must exercise control and insight into the conduct of proceedings. You had a case where there was a lawsuit for 34 years. There's been litigation for 20 years. Who's to blame? The presidents of the courts are guilty because they did not supervise the holders of the case and did not control the deadlines, within which deadlines should be completed and the proceedings closed. However, it was avoided. There's one more thing, Mr. Vice President, I apologize, but there are representatives, so let them know. New judges and prosecutors are being accepted. And you know what's going on? Items 5, 10 or 20 years old are assigned to work for these beginners, poor people who are just beginning to work, and those bones get in, that it takes them two or three years to study these items and to act on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71091	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Now the word has an MP, Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71092	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, honourable MPs, at today's session, we have to discuss four proposals for the High Council's decisions on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office and two motions by the State Council of Prosecutors for the election of deputy public prosecutors. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges, as well as the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the decision on the number of judges in the courts, the High Council of the Court has announced the choice of judges for those basic courts. In the process of proposing candidates for judges who are first elected as judges, they took into account the assessment of the work of candidates, as well as the evaluation of the ability to perform judicial functions. The High Council Commission of the judiciary has carried out a review of the applications submitted by the candidates for those courts and established their timelyness, eligibility and completeness. An exam was conducted for judges who were first elected and who applied for the election. The High Council Commission of the judiciary held a discussion with candidates for judges who were first elected and established a list of candidates, published on the website of the High Council of the judiciary and complete material with exams, the Commission delivered to the High Judicial Council. In accordance with the Law on Judges and the Rules on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for selecting judges for the first time, the High Judicial Council has obtained an opinion on candidates from all Judges for whom the choice of judges and data and opinions on the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates has been proposed from the organisation in which the candidate has worked. Therefore, after such a procedure was implemented by law and based on the predetermined criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise, the competence and dignity of the candidates, the High Judicial Council set out at a special session a proposal for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the choice of judges who are named in the decision, with an appropriate explanation for each candidate individually. For these reasons, I will support the proposal of all these decisions of the High Council of the Judiciary, as well as the decision of the State Council of Prosecutors. This work of the High Council of the judiciary has been the result of the laws that have been passed since the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power, and in the framework of the Justice Reform Strategy and the Action Plan for the implementation of this reform. Amendments and additions to the judicial laws have improved the transparency of the work of the High Council of the judiciary and the obligation to explain the decisions made by the High Council of the judiciary, as well as criteria for determining the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates for judicial functions. In this way, greater independence and independence of the judicial authority has been ensured from the other two branches of government, executive and legislative. The Serbian Progressive Party pointed to the need to continue judicial reform and correct the mistakes made in 2012 as early as it took responsibility for the exercise of power. The reform of the judiciary, by creating a legal framework that will not allow what the former regime, or the Democratic Party, has done to the so-called. judicial reforms 2009, 2010 and 2011 About the so-called The reform of the judiciary conducted by the Democratic Party has been said in this assembly. Let me remind you. The independence of the judicial authority has not been consistently implemented by the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the Law on Judges, which provides for a general choice and re-election of judges, which is in direct contrast with the constitutional principle of continuity of the judicial office. The executive authority opposed the opinion of the professional public and without the participation of the judiciary made a decision on the general re-election and election of judges by the first term of the High Council of Justice, which was not elected by the judiciary but by the Assembly. There have been a lot of words about a series of irregularities and illegalities that followed the work of this first summoning of the High Council of Justice. The Executive and Legislative Authority gave special privileges to the members of the first Supreme Judicial Council, as they were excluded from the general re-election and provided them with mandatory progress after the end of the term of office. This led to a counter-service to the executive government, as the choice of judges was carried out without any criteria and procedures, according to the measure of the executive, or the Democratic Party, which is not at all controversial and there is a series of evidence of this, and many have been carried out in this Assembly as well. Analysis of the work of these new networks of courts and prosecutors and the effects of all the so-called "totally". The reforms of the judiciary can be clearly determined that justice has become inaccessible to citizens, that judicial costs have become higher, that the whole judicial system has become more expensive and slower. In order to justify the collapse of the judicial system, in addition to the damage caused by the considerable collection of court proceedings and the great material damage that occurred, suffered by the unselected judges, it was also done inconclusive because on the day of the publication of the decision of the High Council of Justice 25.12.2009 on the non-election and termination of the judicial post, the media has begun not all the unselected judges through written and other media, and since then the Ministry of Justice, the High Council of the Judiciary, as well as the officials of the DS. In particular, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, State Secretary Slobodan Homen, Supreme Cassation Court President Nata Mesarovic and the chairman of the Committee for Justice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Bosko Ristic, pointed out. There is no need to forget the key role high-ranking DS official Dusan Petrovic played in all of this. This was the conduct of the High Council of the Judiciary and, above all, by its members by the function of both executive and legislative authorities and by the alleged reasons for the non-election of judges caused damage to the honor and reputation of unselected judges, leading to hundreds of charges for compensation, in addition to material and immaterial damages. The Republic of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, paid for the damage measured by tens of millions of euros, without any of the above being held accountable. The epilogue of this kind of reform of the judiciary only cost the state 44m euros in fees for disbursed judges and prosecutors. The consequences of judicial reform in 2009, 2010 and 2011 are catastrophic and are still felt today. That's how the DS implemented judicial reform and, of course, all other reforms. Just to remind you that the economy and economy have led to the brink of collapse. I will take this opportunity to take this opportunity to the members of the Vishki Council of the judiciary, in addition to the commendation for the implementation of the procedures and the application of the relevant criteria and criteria, when making these proposals to judges who are first elected by direction and well-meaning objections concerning the conduct of the High Council of the judiciary when making a decision on the number of judges for individual courts. What's this about? Courts with a similar number of cases in work and with a similar number of residents in the area they cover, according to this decision do not have a similar number of judges, there are already drastic differences. Here I will present an example of the Supreme Court in the Great Plan, which is responsible for the area of the Municipality of the Great Plan and the municipality of Smederevska Palanka. This court has 14 judges, according to the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary since 2016. Since the territory of this municipality has 90,656 inhabitants, amounting to 6,973 residents per judge or given the number of cases in operation ranging from 7,500 to 7,750 in previous years, the judge averages 564 cases. I can give you a number of judges in Serbia who have fewer average cases per judge, a drastically smaller, even double and triple smaller number, a greater number of courts that have the same or a significantly smaller number of residents in that territory that the court covers, and that they have a significantly higher number of judges, even twice as large and more than double. I don't know what criteria these are, except for those that I consider to be the most important. So I'm not going to tell those courts, if I have to have official information about those courts. Of course, to be clear, I'm not saying that some courts have more judges than the required number, but it's obvious that the City Court in the Great Plana has fewer judges by this decision. This situation in the Main Court in the Great Plan lasts from 2014, which inevitably leads to ineffectiveness and lower quality of work. Citizens from the territory of the municipalities of Velika Plana and Smederjevska Palanka are in an unequal position with regard to citizens from the territory of other mentioned basic courts. Given that in this year the four judges of the Main Court in the Great Plan ceases to serve as judge, in the interest of the citizens of Great Plan Municipalitys and Smederjevska Palanka, the decision to increase the number of judges will be taken as soon as possible by the High Council of the judiciary, in particular taking into account the fact that the selection process of new judges takes place for several months and often throughout the year, and that the work of this court will be very difficult if the advertisements are called only when each of the judges individually ceases to function. The easiest and most effective way to overcome this situation is to increase the number of judges in this court. Please check this information and review the decision of the High Judicial Council in the case concerning the number of judges in the Main Court in the Great Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71093	Thank you. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, Dr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71094	Dear Representatives of the Party and Reconciliation support the rejuvenation of the structure of prosecutors and judges throughout the country, and we are particularly interested and we are monitoring everything that is happening in the Sandzak area. Not only what we have in front of us now, but in recent months we have some shifts in the field, but it remains insufficient in relation to all the challenges facing the authorities of the judiciary and the prosecution in this area. We have repeatedly pointed to various problems arising from the very fact that space is geographically specific, given the numerous borders and administrative approaches around the cities in the Sandzak area, however we will not give up calling and calling for certain problems to cease to be denied or ignored. So, Tutin and Sjenica have already become something that, we ourselves have simply bored ourselves by mentioning these areas, but we will not give up for the reason that the behaviour of certain members of the prosecution and the judiciary, as well as the police in flirting with certain local authorities who have been sinking in crime for a long and long time is something that should not be normalised in any way from the position of the central authorities and the judicial and judicial authorities, but also from all other state authorities. True, here we have power in the Tutina area, which has been a government for two decades and we've actually almost waited for that power to start falling apart from itself, so I believe that behind these choices we'll have hope, a different structure of power, which will finally put an end to its own darkness. The political, judicial and overall darkness of injustice that is happening in the Tutina area, because we have a city where people don't have drinking water, and apparently always vote for one ruling structure. They vote as they vote, and in fact for the reasons that in the drawers of various officials of the prosecution and the judiciary and the police for years these people have been protected from criminal responsibility. So that's something we have to point out, so it's not good that on similar occasions we wait for one government to fall apart, as the SDA government in Tutin is breaking down today, to three factions for now, and hopefully there will be even more. These are messages for us here in the National Assembly, that we must also take these parts of the country that are geographically considered peripheral, and they must not be peripheral in importance, because they are borderline, and other than that, because they are multiethnic, and they all give meaning to this space. True, the situation in Tutin and Sjenica is the worst in comparison with all other places and cities, but also in other cities of Sandzak we have examples of similar abuses, flirting and sprawling between certain criminal structures which unfortunately are many, unbearable many, but which have survived for years and decades precisely thanks to the fact that certain criminal structures have their judges, their prosecutors, their officers, their inspectors. Even if we add to that certain flirtations at the level of politics, local politics and crime or some other policy levels, then we have an atmosphere that must not be acceptable at all and which we must never be reconciled with. If we add to this the facts that we pointed to, certain infrastructure insulation and detachment of space from important traffic, then it is not difficult to understand why we have dozens of buses a week leaving Novi Pazar, with the healthiest, youngest population referred to west, most likely irreversibly. So we can't keep quiet, we can't deal with this. Of course, any positive gesture regarding the appointment of new prosecutors and judges, I hope, should be supported. We will do so, but we will also deal with those who are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71095	Thank you. The word is Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71096	Dear chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I welcome the VSS and the State's chief prosecutors. When they are here in the congregation, it means that we are making some very important decisions. Why important? So because it is precisely the work of prosecutors and the work of judges that depends on both the judiciary and depends on everything that has come in some way into the focus of the judiciary, i.e. at the stage of deciding the charges and making decisions. I would take the opportunity to commend one part of the procedure and all that came here as a proposal from the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, it was done in accordance with the law and that is what is expected of such high institutions and what is meant. What I want to take advantage of, also as an opportunity on the other hand, is that, first of all, I ask these people who are here and the institutions that they represent that together with both the government and the state and with all the bodies that function, we make such an ambience in which simple justice must be achieved, but available in the right sense of that word. First of all, I am referring to the situation that a certain number of cases experience an obsolescence, which is a serious problem if we have in mind that a very serious, significant, significant public figure, significant for the citizens, significant for the justice of cases simply comes to an ageing stage. In that situation, no one wins, except for the defendant and the guilty, that justice is not served. What I would ask is that, or we speed up, we are certainly working on a system that will speed up the work of the judiciary, I certainly support the independence of the judiciary, but I cannot support a system that simply leads to aging and which does not result. The result of the work of the judiciary must be judgment, fair and in accordance with the law, but it must be judgment. If it is necessary to extend the deadlines, and to extend the deadlines, it is not fair to people, it is not fair to the state, it is not fair to any interested party that any case comes to antiquity, and usually there are large, difficult and serious cases. We have the latest example in the city where I come from, and this is Shabac, a city where the famous Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic, was very short in the judiciary, but he left a serious lead, and indeed in all attempts, in all reforms, and every hiring of a new prosecutor, a new deputy, or a new judge is a kind of reform. Since 2012 we have, of course, respected independence and with respect for the proposals that come from you, we need to find ways to strengthen intensity, strengthen work and strengthen results. The result is the verdict, of course, according to the law. If we have the mayor of the town of Sapca who has been accused and by the judgment of the High Court for the second time convicted of the abuse of five million euros, and if we are the only thing we have asked as a, as a national MP, I have repeatedly addressed from this pay phone, the only thing we have been looking for in that case, we have not entered into how and what will be the verdict, but the only thing we have asked for, we have asked that there be no statute of limitations. So, what happened? There has just been an obsolescence of the case that is extremely important for the citizens of Sapac and for the citizens of Serbia. We simply have no answer whether the mayor has been convicted, has not been convicted by law, because there has been an aging case, but we have a higher court ruling, which is still current, because simply the Supreme Court has made the decision that Mayor Zelenovic is guilty. There has been an aging case and the verdict has not been confirmed, but it is important that citizens know that they have a mayor who has abused a budget that has not worked in the interests of the citizens of Sapco. We have another absurd situation, this same mayor finds it appropriate that immediately after obtaining a decision, or ruling that there has been an aging, to suspend the case, to hold a press conference and to declare himself innocent, not showing the other part of the verdict, which clearly states that there has been an out of date, not that the Court of Appeals has ruled that he is innocent. It is, I think, one of the few cases when the Court of Appeal announced that Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic has re-abused his position and only read part of the verdict relating to the aging of the case, or to the termination of the case, rather than the part in which he pleads guilty whether he is guilty or not guilty. At the same time, I personally filed a dozen criminal charges, we have no answer, nor do we have 72 apartments owned by the town of Šapca, we have no agreement or deal with the purchase of councilors and the purchase of votes that were in part 2016. We have no answer or what will happen to calls for Nazism, and it has just been done by Mayor Zelenovic, by publishing the swastika and by just connecting the SNS with this dark period which is simply not consistent and not consistent in the work in which he is willing to do, when I say not consistent, I mean Mayor Zelenovic, is ready to make a contract with the black devil, just to stay in power for a few more days. We simply don't have many answers to many questions in Sapac, and these questions are actually asked through criminal charges filed against the mayor of Neboja Zelenovic. I'll just take the opportunity to give another example. Yesterday, in the city administration, we had a situation where the mayor schedules a press conference and then brings out a total lie, a reconstruction of the sports hall, that is, the construction of a new sports hall and reconstruction of a school that will cost about 170 million dinars and which will be financed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, the office's funds by decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The mayor comes out and the dead cold says that the town of Shabac has allocated funds from the budget and that they will finance the construction of the sports hall. Is it necessary that we, as MPs of the SNS or the council, file a criminal report or will the prosecutor in Šapac, the Basic or the Supreme or some appeal prosecutor, prosecutor of any level, come one day, knock on the door and ask the mayor – well, why are you lying? Since he is constantly lying, every statement he made of being released, that he is innocent, that the Court of Appeal said he was innocent, until at first sight of a harmless lie that the city of Sabac, or from the budget of the city of Sapca, will be financed by a hall financed by the government's decision and financed from the office, or from the government of the Republic of Serbia. We simply have to ask the question – who is to blame? Everyone was doing their job, everyone was working according to the law, who was to blame for one such object as the case against one mayor, it doesn't matter what it's called, in this case it's called Nebojsa Zelenovic, but that such a significant object, the only thing that shouldn't have happened, is to get old, that's exactly what happened. So, as the mayor claimed in the defense that it wasn't his blood, it was probably the coffee maker and driver of Djok, so in this case, who's to blame for the object that was carrying an epithet of five million euros, the abuse from the budget of the town of Sapca, who's to blame for never finding out again how guilty Mayor Zelenovic is, how much someone else is and who's even guilty. So, I would like and insist, however, that exactly from the level at which it is, from the institutions from which you come and by the vertical people who work with you, to find a way to simply increase the deadlines or to simply provide for that something that was done against the interests of the citizens cannot come to an end until we find out who's guilty and how guilty he is, and for what he's guilty once and finally answers. Once again, I welcome and thank you for your attention. I ask you to help the villains, that those who steal from the citizens, that those who do some damage, simply answer for it. Here, I'm going to end it, and I've asked this question multiple times from this pay phone, people who threaten the president of a country, in this case people who threaten a president named Alexander Vukic, but it doesn't matter what his name is, his name is Alexander Vukic, because that's what the citizens of Serbia wanted, but he could have called himself otherwise. So why are we letting someone who threatens a president of the state, so he's not sanctioned? Among other things, I am going back to Mayor Sapco, that when it was discovered that he had abused five million euros, simply arrested that he could not affect either witnesses or judges or prosecutors, I think that the case would be welcomed by a solution, or a judicial verdict. In this case, when we arrest, and we're supposed to arrest people for a debt of 100 or 200 thousand dinars, when we send them perpetrators. It's okay, no one should owe it to the state if it's simply not in accordance with the law. But let's not just put these big cases aside, but in the interest of justice, in the interest of the judiciary, but also in the interests of the state and the citizens, these cases are solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71097	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71098	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues from the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, I will speak of another matter in this part of the time. Of course, we will support proposals for the first election of deputies and the first choice of judges in the voting day. What I do have a great honour and pleasure is that during this four year term, indeed many new and deputy prosecutors and judges have entered Serbia's judiciary, that there have been very few controversial candidates when it comes to deputy prosecutors and judges, this has been said about a well-tagged and well-established system that is the type of proposal, so to say, it has led to stages to come here in the main search before the National Assembly, which is the one who has the right to choose first choice of deputies, prosecutors and judges, and I hope that this will remain unchanged in the future period, because it is the only way for them by the people to pass on those powers which they need in their future work to have and to use. What we could do in the future, and it doesn't have to be that far away, is to do a serious analysis of the 10-year period behind us and the practical analysis of the consequences and resolution of the 2010 reforms. I expect that, primarily since there is a possibility, it could propose the largest SNS parliamentary group, headed by Mr Martinovic, who knows this area very well, which is to do a full analysis of what we have received, what we have lost with this change, because yet a period of 10 years is more than enough for us to determine whether it is necessary to make a change in the organisation of courts and prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. Is this the system of the so-called system? The basic prosecutors, the basic courts with such a schedule, with the Supreme Court between the appeal and the Court of First Instance, can be improved or better it was a system of municipal courts, district courts and Supreme Courts because, frankly, it is not regrettable for youth, but it seems to me that it worked much better when it came to the organisation of these courts. At that time, it was known what judges were doing, what the presidents of the courts were doing, how practice is being implemented equally, and how a uniform law applies to all Serbian citizens, and, frankly, I am extremely sorry for that time period. So it would be time to make a cut now and then and cut off the prosecution investigation, and I call upon this SNS, we have room in this extraordinary session, so that it can propose such a serious topic. I think we have almost all the elements for this kind of debate, because it is one of the obligations of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and not only to deal with the first choice of judges and prosecutors, or to come to situations where we have come to the Committee's session, to accept and respect the position proposed by the SNS, which is to return a complete proposal for all the presidents of the courts, because obviously there has been a breakdown in the whole procedure. Given the number of objections and suggestions that have arrived, it was absolutely appropriate to return it to the High Council of the judiciary to reconsider its decision. In voting day, I say, we will support the proposal of the deputy and the judge. What needs to be done in the future is the introduction of a far greater number of judicial assistants, prosecutor's assistants, expert court associates, experts in the prosecutions, to define their premises and their place in the whole process, and thus really speed up the work of the Serbian judiciary, simplifying, facilitating the work of judges, rather than putting up with some of the banal things that are not necessary in today's day. I talked earlier about shooting the trial, about the stenographic notes. I claim that at least 50% would raise efficiency in the work of the judiciary and remove any doubt in the slightest word, comma and detail spoken in the courtroom. Today it's so cheap that I just don't understand why it doesn't go any more and do more than it's done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71099	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The right to replica has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71100	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I agree with the greatest part with Mr Komlenski's presentation, but I am obliged to make a few public remarks concerning the session of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which took place on 4 February and I see that this has caused quite a stir in the public, especially in that part of the public that is not favored by the SNS. First of all, I want to say, Mr Komlenski, that the SNS is not and does not want to be in conflict with the High Council of the judiciary, these are the people who are doing a very responsible and difficult job and they have done one job that is very difficult, so they have proposed more than 70 candidates for the presidents of basic and criminal courts in the Republic of Serbia. All of us who are members of the Justice Committee know how busy and responsible work it is, which takes a long time, but on the other hand, we have come into a situation that we simply have to react to a number of candidates who, absolutely, according to the information we have, cannot be elected to the functions of the President of the Court. For example, and such cases have unfortunately been in many cases, I have stated, if I am not mistaken, three examples where you simply do not have the conditions to choose such a candidate as the President of the Court. One candidate came from a court where he received only one vote from his colleagues, another candidate, and it is more or less known in the middle in which he lives, a member of the main board of DS, and a third candidate, it was most drastic for me, was on top of the covert surveillance measures by the Security-Informative Agency, it was found even in one report and the number of telephones of that person and in which the catering facilities meet with representatives of persons against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted, what amount of money is required of those persons to make appropriate judgments in favour of their, conditionally said, clients etc. You can't stay silent on cases like that. I know that this is now an unpleasant situation and that someone can say – here, the SNS is jeopardizing the independence of the judiciary or the SNS has something against anyone from the High Council of Justice. We have absolutely nothing against anyone and we don't take this personally, but you can't choose for the President of the Court a person who can't be an elder to anyone, especially not an elder to other fellow judges, but her biography is such and her actions are such that she should be prosecuted, not be a judge, let alone the President of the Court and by what we had in the material, she should be prosecuted. In that sense, my appeal is for the High Council of the Judiciary, since I see almost every day that various misinformations are being made from that session of the Justice Committee, this is not about the personal war of the SNS against the High Council of the Judiciary, the President of the High Council of the judiciary, any member of the High Council of the judiciary, etc. We know that these are people who do a hard and delicate job, but some things just can't get through, they can't get through. No one can be the judge's president, so he's a member of the SNS board, not DS. My impression is that DS is more present in the judiciary than it is in Serbia's political life. She doesn't exist in political life, but her staff in the judiciary and how they exist. What kind of situation do we come into, as a state, as a citizen? This is a very serious matter, and some colleagues here in the National Assembly talked about it, of course, in the context of the policy they represent. It can't happen, I'm saying now, not only as a lawyer, but also as a citizen of this country, that the president of the Republic should go to a press conference and say -- we have solid evidence against this Cosmajec, that he's a major drug dealer in Serbia, and the police collect all possible evidence and the prosecution file charges, i.e. The court says, "You can throw all of this into the muddy marica. It's all nothing. It's not the man's fault." Well, it's laughing in the face of Serbian citizens, it's laughing in the face of the state of Serbia. These things can't happen. What Mr. Petar Jojic said, I completely agree. So, the High Council of the Judiciary must put in practice, I believe they're doing it, but in some cases, they seem to have missed it. Something called a security check. A person who is on permanent surveillance, recording conversations, and on these measures cannot be found to be in daily contact with people from criminal circles to be proposed to the president of the court. Such mistakes simply must not happen, and if the Justice Committee happens, it is obliged to point out these mistakes. I know it's not pleasant, and I know that one part of people don't understand it, and to say -- here these are now affecting the independence of the judiciary, but you have to react to such things, because of the citizens, because of the state, and finally because of the integrity of the judges who judge in this country. The majority of the judges are honest and honorable people who live on their salary, do not live on bribery and corruption, but every grain has a doll in it, and we as ambassadors are obliged to point out that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71101	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on line, MP Djordje Komlenski, then Mr. Perar Jojic, then Mr. Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71102	Thank you, Chairman. You see, Mr. Martinovic, I can accept one part of your discussion, but I can't agree with the media being attacked by those who hate only SNS. Except for certain colleagues who interpreted it from a highly professional and professional aspect with a desire, but very few, to give their opinion, most of those who do not hate only the SNS hate all of Serbia, because not to hate all of Serbia would not have done in 2009 what they did to the Serbian judiciary. I can't believe that some, call colleagues and colleagues who in 2009 and 2010 were extremely asking what the Serbian judiciary would look like in the next 10 years and when the network of courts and networks of the prosecutor's office was in question and when it was completely illegal and abnormal, without any grounds for dissuasion, or the election of judges, almost a thousand judges and prosecutors, could simply have led to collapse and chaos in the Serbian judiciary. He couldn't get him anything good. It could seem to lay on the side that someone wanted something good, but whoever understood it, who spent at least one day in the judiciary and at least one day paying attention to how the judiciary worked had to know that it was going to be evil and wrong. There is a folk who says, "Good afternoon, wicked woman." Well, I wouldn't be surprised if someone felt threatened and called, precisely because you didn't use the name and last name of those, and of course you shouldn't, who were on the scales and who were being followed, so I'm not sure someone wasn't scared, and basically when it came to the Justice Committee, it wasn't about him. I really think the Committee's decision was appropriate and appropriate, but Serbia, I agree that this will extend v.f. status, but we have v.f. The state of the Supreme Cassation Court. I don't see that the Supreme Court of Cassation doesn't work, works and works. Therefore, it is better to shake this one more time and do it to the High Council of the Judiciary, and then to come to the Assembly, than to be the subject of an individual debate here in the Assembly. I think that decision that was just taken to avoid further harm from this home to all those fair judges and all those congratulatory candidates for the presidents of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71103	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Replica, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In any case, I would support Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic's presentation, as he pointed out the general and state interest. Since I've worked in security services for many years, I have to say that at that time there could have been no one and anyone proposed on any basis to be either a judge or a prosecutor or a president of a court or to be the head of a prosecutor. I will only report again, as it is possible that more disciplinary charges have been filed against the deputy public prosecutor in Panchev, the General Prosecutor's Office of Goran Medakovic, and he is conducting criminal proceedings against the tycoon and has kept the indictment in a drawer for two years and the trial does not continue. How is that possible? More criminal charges and disciplinary charges have been filed, and none of this continues to work in the case. One more thing, I would point out, which is very significant, by which time will the gentlemen of the State Council of Prosecutors have a V.D. A situation in 34 public prosecutor cases? Until when do you think you're holding a V.D. What's the status? From where now on, the presidents of the courts in V.D. A condition? It's got to be triage, it's got to be separated from the wheat. Criminals and corrupts have to fly, and you know, since 2000, a lot of corrupt, unworthy and criminals have come to justice. Affront many, they're the honorable majority, but some of them have been embezzled in crime. I therefore believe that the National Assembly must have a decisive word when the prosecutors and the presidents of the courts are elected, and the High Council of the Courts should be disbanded and given the right in accordance with comparable law, that the President of the Republic chooses judges and prosecutors, that the minister of justice must have greater powers. Let Americanization from Yugoslavia go, let's look at European standards. In France, the president of the state appoints the presidents of the courts, elects judges and public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71105	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Right on line, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71106	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, the State Council of the Prosecutors, since several of the participants in the discussion mentioned the Committee on Justice and the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, is my obligation and as a proposing of one of the points of the agenda here, and on that basis, Mr. Chairman, you had to give me a word, not just give me a replica, to point to some things. I am very symptomatic that some respected colleagues today have a completely different opinion than they had a few days ago when they participated in the work of the Committee on Justice and State Administration and local self-government. To point out for the public, the decision was taken unanimously, voted for by some of my distinguished colleagues who today have the opposite opinion. The decision was made by sending a letter to the High Judicial Council to review its decision on proposals for the election of the president of the basic courts and criminal courts in the Republic of Serbia and the High Council of the judiciary and to eventually withdraw its proposal to the National Assembly. Therefore, the High Council of the Judiciary may, in a review, act by letter of the Committee on Justice and State Administration and local self-government, withdraw the proposal, which was also the conclusion of the Committee, or possibly remain on its proposal and return it to the National Assembly. But what's very important is that we don't need to talk about it today. I, Mr. Chairman, am taking the opportunity to warn you and to introduce you, see what's the agenda point today. It is not the agenda item in the Serbian judiciary or in the Serbian prosecutor's office. On the agenda are proposals from the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors for electing judges, the Courts of Fundamental Courts and the Commercial Courts, the Criminal Courts and the Deputy Prosecutors in several basic prosecutors. I have not heard in discussions that anyone has disputed the work of the Supreme Council of the Judicial and State Council that has not acted in accordance with the law giving him the right, which is the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, and there is also the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which accurately foresees the procedure and way of proposing judges and who elects judges to the first judicial office. So let me just conclude one more time, let's not change our attitudes and opinions from today to tomorrow, because someone in a newspaper wrote this or that somewhere. I must say that I have been started to use this term, many journalists from many offices, especially from Belgrade, and those who are eager to write something bad about this government, this government, etc., to comment on the decision of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. It's not my place to comment on. It's mine to carry her out as president and I did it and I sent a memo to whoever was supposed to be referred to. What the High Council of the Judiciary will decide will be decided by the majority in the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Therefore, respected and respected colleagues, we respect some procedure, we respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we respect the existing Constitution and the existing laws that regulate this area in the public life of the Serbian state. When we do all this, we'll finish this session very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71107	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The right to reply has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. ( Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Our goal is to continue to debate. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71108	All right, we'll be done. I'm obliged to say something about what Mr. Petrovic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71109	We'll finish when we're done, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71110	We'll be done. Here, now he's already speaking George Komlenski, he's the ninth on the list of 24 speakers, we'll be there. What Mr. Petrovic said is absolutely correct. So the Committee has indeed made the decision that it has made and unanimously. In fact, we were in front of a dilemma and on the Committee were asking these questions, whether we should go to a session of the Assembly with this proposal, and then the MPs who consider that there are reasons for the dispute are challenging individual candidates, or whether the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary is withdrawn from the procedure and that the High Council of the judiciary, I should say, proposes that it call a new competition and propose new candidates for the Presidents of the Courts. Worst of all, in my opinion, we get into a situation where we're like two rams on a cabin and now we and the MPs and the people of the High Council of the Judiciary and say, we're absolutely right or absolutely right about these others. We'll repeat the same proposal again, and you try not to adopt it, etc. I don't think we need that kind of situation. Why the Committee has decided to withdraw from the procedure a proposal for the Presidents of the Basic and Criminal Courts. We could've adopted that proposal on the board and he'd come to the tide, but then what would have happened. Then MPs who have enough evidence that certain candidates should not be elected presidents of the courts. We'd be in a position to read that evidence here. Imagine now that I, as a folk MP, read the name of the judge of that and that court, who on the measures of the Security Information Agency, the measures of covert supervision, to read her number of telephones where the catering facilities met, etc., in one, second, fifth case, etc. This would lead to the VSS, which would lead to the Ministry of Justice, which would lead us as MPs in one extremely unpleasant situation, and that is why we have defined ourselves as a more elegant solution, that the proposal should be returned to the VSS, that they should examine it. I know it's a long and complicated procedure, but it's better than having bad and unskilled presidents of the courts, and proposing new candidates for the presidents of the courts, so when the time comes, we'll pick those presidents of the courts and nothing bad will happen. What's suggested in a number of cases, it just can't go through. You, when you put the People's Parliament in a situation that has to be at the National Assembly plenary session to challenge a candidate, and especially the candidate of the President of the Court, I can't just say flat-out, I stand up and say flat-out - I challenge the candidate of that and that. I have to state some reason, my conscience binds me to it. The citizens expect it from me. The judges of that court expect me to. When I say, from me, not from me personally, but from any MP, and then I'd have to read picanteries that are extremely unpleasant. Therefore, it would be good for the VSS to follow the recommendation of the Justice Committee to re-implement the choice, or propose candidates for the presidents of the courts, but this time, one element that Mr Jojic pointed to must be included, which is a security check. Someone can't be the president of a court, and it's on top of covert surveillance and recording of conversations, and these talks show that every day he meets with representatives of certain criminal circles, he takes money from them and promises judgments that suit criminals. These things can't be tolerated. Secondly, you have to keep an eye on it, no one can be proposed, and that it is a member of any party, or even of the party I belong to, and especially of the party that put us in a position to have a very difficult situation in the judiciary. So these are all things that are very serious and about which and how it should be taken care of. This isn't a situation where anyone's got something or anybody's lost. I think we've all got something, that we've all learned from this situation. If nothing else, we have learned that the National Assembly is not a mere flow boiler of anything, nor are the proposals that come from the VSS and that everything is subject to control, criticism, argument and evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71111	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Gjorge Komlenski, has a right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71112	I thank the chairman. It seems to me that after all, fellow Petrovic did not understand part of the discussion, or he thought of someone else. I just want to underline one thing. It's my position from the Committee's session today when it comes to the decision taken on the Committee hasn't changed by a millimeter and it's identical to what was at the Committee's session, so it would be interesting to hear who changed the position, but it doesn't matter that much. Next thing you know, I don't know why I would be here reading the names and last names of all the candidates and welcoming their choice, I totally agree with that. But it's not the job of the National Assembly to elect these people to be deputy prosecutors and judges, and that's the solution. It will not only be better for the citizens of Serbia, and that is why the Serbian judiciary will not function better. We are also obliged to look after the network of courts here, and we are obliged to take care of the conditions in which these people are going to work, how they will be monitored and their additional education, how their progress will be monitored, how their career progress will go, and it is precisely giving me the right to comment that I am truly convinced that the network of courts that was in force by 2010, the municipal and districtal and the Supreme Court, has been far better, better quality, more efficient and functional, when the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are concerned, than what we have after this recovery of the catastrophic reform of 2010. I do not see at all that the introduction of the High Court has resolved problems and has accelerated the functioning of justice in the Republic of Serbia. I also do not see the need that in many places where municipal courts existed today, there are no more. The state of Serbia must be available in every place and I think that the network that has been built for decades, selected for decades, has been far more quality than this and what we have today. It doesn't mean I'm right, but it's time for a serious analysis after 10 years – it is. Is it time to analyze whether, what good did she bring us or what bad brought us to the prosecution's investigation? And that's what we need to run an analysis on. Was it better when they were investigating judges or wasn't it better? If this is a step forward, you need to do an analysis of what is the next step that these people need to be provided? I do not see what is controversial in this proposal that, with all this, there must be a tone recording of all trials, but also other conditions for judges to work and prosecutors to do their job without burdens affecting their quality of work, not their efforts, but their quality of work. So, more judicial assistants, more prosecutor's assistants, more co-workers of the judge's, more prosecutor's associates, will do no harm, no harm, no budget, no state of Serbia, only to contribute to more cases in the shortest time to fairer and fairer court decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71113	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71114	Ladies and gentlemen, I again support Mr. Alexander Martinovic. This is a revolutionary and radical move to confront bureaucracy, corruption and crime for the first time, because if this doesn't happen, the judiciary goes down and falls to its knees. We'll let them choose themselves, but no one, that group in the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council, will hold the whole system in their hands, and that's the most important state portfolio the state has to protect. But we have allowed since 2000, that party personnel come to the judiciary, that among them there are, above all, traitors, criminals, there are corrupt people. In Europe, in the ordinary government vault and even in other restaurants, a cleaning lady cannot enter until a security check is carried out for her. For each judicial officer, a security assessment must be carried out and there is no other. This is the first time. I welcome you, I take off my hat which has finally been decided by the National Assembly to bring this issue back, and gentlemen withdraw this proposal and give candidates with integrity and dignity and let the MPs choose it. I'd just like to look back on what the esteemed Komlensky pointed out. He was talking, among other things, about the prosecution investigation. It is the biggest problem and the greatest evil that has been introduced as an institution, an Americanization in the Code of Criminal Procedure. We don't need their right. We have continental right. We had a good Criminal Procedure Act, and now we have such a situation that prosecutors now pass, illegally, conclude agreements with lawyers. Will the person who committed the crime, where the sentence is scheduled for up to five and up to 10 years, that the lawyer, on behalf of his party, conclude an agreement with the attorney general? Now they have a chance for each year when the prison's fine is delayed to take 5,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71115	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. We're moving on with our work. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, would take this opportunity to congratulate the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Professor Vojislav Seselj and all members of the Serbian Radical Party on today's celebration of the Tri Jararh Council, perhaps there are some who are not members of the Serbian Radical Party but feel that way. Now to speak what is on the agenda, and that is to resolve certain holders of judicial functions and the choice of those who are first elected. We personally will not even challenge, in fact I, as an MP of the Serbian Radical Party, personally will not dispute, nor will we particularly highlight the candidates, especially those who will be in the coming period bearers of judicial functions, but we will talk about some phenomena that and how they are monitoring this activity. I must remind you that there are two kinds of justice. One is God's. I won't talk about her today. The second is folk or human. It is actually a subject, and the bearers or people who allow that justice based on the Constitution and the law are just the holders of judicial functions, and we're going to talk about it a little bit. There's a phenomenon here that's a little surprising to me, now the acting president of the Supreme Cassation Court for the third time, if I'm not mistaken, was once and before the election at the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and I've only seen him here in Parliament once and that, if I'm not mistaken, when the newly elected President of the Republic took an oath. I think it's disrespect for the National Assembly that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has never once come to explain some of the decisions proposed by the High Council of the judiciary, so before it is known that he and the president are acting as such. What could I blame you for, members of the High Council of Justice? There's only one thing I'd like to warn you about. If one of you, I mean not only the members of the High Council of the Judiciary but also the State Council of Prosecutors, was at that prosecutor's birthday party at the "Shumadi" hotel when the question was whether the bill was paid or not? When it comes to who was there? The prosecutor began his career in the King, so it is known that some people were suspected and it is known that this area in Serbia is very well known for its illegal, i.e. every opiate traffic is illegal, of course, if it is not otherwise solved. I don't think we're going to ask for any exception, but I think people like that should be excused from certain things themselves. What is it that we essentially resent to members of the High Council of the Judiciary, including you, Mr. Jovicic? Which is a mild struggle for the development of justice in Serbia. You have great powers, both under the Constitution and under the Law, and this is not only personal to you, but also to the minister of justice, who is acting as a member of the chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government and elected members of the High Council of Justice. I've talked about it many times, it's been a long time since the devastation of a branch of government, i.e. the judicial branch of power. When I said that there are these two kinds of justices, there would be no judicial authorities that do so very often. What about this decision, or the proposal of the Justice Committee? Personally, I don't think there are only three candidates there, perhaps one of the members of the Committee and the president of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, I just cited as an example, there are more, at least according to our knowledge, there is one candidate for the president of the court who, with the help of another colleague, has allowed the judicial costs he should have paid to be obsolete. And that's why we think that, in a somewhat earlier period, the choice of legal holders was the best, not that it was better, but so far that we had offered it was the best solution. There should be no distraction from the mind of the fact that almost every place or from a number of places there are MPs who are easier to find out and it is known through time, and if you form a committee in the Supreme Council of the judiciary to go either on the basis of a report on the work of the President of the courts or courts, perhaps at the very moment when they go to check it out, you will find that the situation is right and that you do it with the best intention, there is nothing to resent, but in time everything is learned, all the negatives, as well as the good and what is good. Here perhaps, I think counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic spoke of it, that what was disputed, and of course fellow counterpart Petar Jojic, should not have executed the selection of these proposed candidates, but a number that passed the procedure at the High Council of Justice should have been elected as judge presidents. There's a little bit of uncertainty in court about that. I was saying, and it's my legitimate right, it doesn't have to be like this at all, we have elections soon, there can be certain illegal, or illegal actions in the electoral actions. In some cases, it will take the court to intervene. I think the judges will be there, as they always are, not all of them, but one part of the judges, and the president of the courts will look a little mildly at the ruling party. That's not the case now, it's always been the case. It's not a question, and that's why the situation was supposed to be completely clean and clear, and in other cases, what was disputed, it shouldn't have been chosen. That's perfectly normal. I don't see any problem here. That wasn't a bad proposal from the Justice Committee at all. I'm a member of this committee. I wasn't at that session. The proposal not to elect certain judges, or the President of the Courts, is quite fine. What else is there to see? Someone said the justice system is much more effective now than before. There's that. A more positive selection is being conducted, but there is something else, that judicial costs are quite high, and then many damaged parties, many damaged Serbian citizens are not even going to seek justice. It may not be a simple thing, but you should keep that in mind and find something that's... Never absolute justice and satisfaction can all be, but it should tend to be a better situation. What do we got here? There are about 70 of them in total, as Mr. Jovicic said. Seventy judges are elected to four groups. What did I see here? This where judges are elected in the Court of Commerce, 22 candidates, their average age is between 40 and 45. In some countries, they too are elected, have judges of the basic court, for judges in the basic court, in some countries with that number of years they also become judges of the supreme or adequate court in those other countries. Someone who attends the Judicial Academy can make rapid progress. We have a lot of evidence and information that at the Judiciary Academy, and that's what someone was talking about, most of the relatives have been enrolling so far with judicial or prosecutorial functions. It's not good, and they're mostly named for judges in the interior, and that's all out of Belgrade, so let me also say Novi Sad. The names of those who have spent many years, 10 years, even 15 years as co-workers in court, and in Belgrade there are many more who have graduated from the Judicial Academy or are members of the academy. We have now, thank God, very talented and young experts in the field of law and we can renew it, but there is one problem here and more colleagues have talked about it because of abuse. The judge's office is permanent, and this cannot be questioned, but there are legal holders who abuse their positions, and there the High Council of the judiciary would have to intervene, immediately to act to remove it. It was a little surprising for me. One of our colleagues said - we found the judiciary in a catastrophic state and then we started to solve these problems. If someone had said that from the SNS, I would have understood it, but it was from a political party that has been the government in Serbia since 2000. I think it's a little unfair and a public distraction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71117	Thank you. (Petar Jojic: Replica! ) Mr Jojic, you do not have the right to reply to the presentation of colleagues from the same parliamentary group. There'll be an opportunity. The MP Veroljub Arsic will now speak, so I suppose there will be opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the debates where many state authorities prove their capacity, and we as a society show and prove the development of democracy we are in. Since judicial reform started in the Republic of Serbia, one question has always been asked, or someone wants to ask one question, which is whether it is an older chicken or an egg. I think that's the wrong assumption at all. Why? I guess in those bodies that propose candidates for judges and deputy prosecutors and prosecutors, they've also learned something about democracy at the university. They can't be good judges or prosecutors if at least some of the basic rights of democracy don't know. So this is where the representatives of the citizens sit and bear the sovereignty of the citizens who voted in some elections. It doesn't matter which political party it is. Now, the decisions made by both the State's Major Prosecutors and the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, who gave them that authority? Who gave you the authority to propose to the National Assembly candidates for judicial or public prosecutorial functions? This National Assembly. We've passed part of sovereignty on to you, with the fact that if the MP who votes for bad law is responsible for it in front of the citizens in the next election, I'm asking the question, if we get bad candidates, who are you answering? Well, to us. To solve the dilemma of who's older, chicken or egg. When any MP declares himself to be a judge or candidate for public prosecutor, votes for his election and he is elected, what happens to the sovereignty of the citizens? The MP gave it to the D.A. and the judge. I guess it's from the French bourgeois Revolution. And that some prosecutors are trying to get Serbia back in time for Al Cappone and Lucky Lucian, we'll talk about that later. I'm asking a question not only of choice, but why are there no motions for resolution here, because I'm fed up with various organizations whose legitimacy is only to compete with foreign embassies to get money for projects that no one reads and, excuse me, speak so badly of their country, that I'm asking if they came from another planet? What kind of education they have from home, from the family where they came from, and what kind of society they want to live in, and to trust that society later on with their children, we'll talk about it later. So, we've cleared up some things. Now, it's very ugly what I've heard from my colleague Martinovic, and I don't agree that a fair offer has been made. It is fair, but not according to the MPs and the National Assembly. There was supposed to be a debate about all the candidates you proposed for the presidents of the courts, so let's see, blackmail, put that back on the list here, and we'll talk about them again and again and again and we'll talk about the truth you've proposed to us. We're going to look for answers to why you suggested such things, so, of course, in some period, it's going to be a question of what you as functionaries, to which we've entrusted a part of our sovereignty, do when you're proposing such candidates. Likewise, the judge is not “the holy cow. ” There's always something going through society that whenever you comment on a court ruling that's legal, final, binding, you can't comment on it. It's not allowed while a trial is being conducted, it's a pressure on the court, but I have the right to comment when it's final, to ask questions, answers, to ask you what you're doing with a judge who doesn't do his job right. Well, somebody convince me I can't comment on Judge Majic's verdict, that shameful verdict. There's a few of them. Now I ask the question, what is discretionaryly correct and independent of the judge? The judge judges in the frameworks entrusted by the Constitution and which we have appointed as MPs through the law. The judge can only judge in these frameworks. What's discretionary law? Who's more likely to believe the evidence? Who's the witness to believe more? If the blame is found, it takes extenuating, difficult circumstances to give the verdict, but can't when the guilt is found to be released. He can't. It has to be answered. Now I ask, what about these judges? Here, we're talking, mouths are full of society, this whole NGO sector, all those civil society representatives, the independence of judges and prosecutors, so I'm asking, did we replace any judge and prosecutor? In the last ten years has anyone been replaced? I'd really like that. It's only if he's committed some crime that's not related to the prosecution's office. I ask the question, how do you appreciate the work of these judges chosen? You know what, citizens, each of us expects to live in a society where he's safe and equal. As a science, I guess it's meant for people not to fight, not to fight, not to kill, but to be equal. Who guarantees this equality? On the one hand, the states, on the other hand, the courts, the state through public order bodies and peace and prosecutors, and we will keep under some excuse that independence and independence are needed, and it is necessary, to bring down the entire system. Under excuses, not justifiable reasons. And what happened now with the election of candidates for the presidents of the courts, what does it confirm? The laws are good, but as a society, as a system we're not up to it. That's no shame. It is a disgrace to the National Assembly, but also to anyone who has participated in this and has voiced that this should be proposed in the National Assembly, that the candidate for the President of the Court be on special ground. You know, you're a lawyer yourself, what procedures it takes to be on top of these measures and to pretend that no one knows anything about it. Oh, that's not possible. It's just not possible. So we expect from you, as we answer in front of our citizens, so we expect you to answer for what you do to citizens through work in the National Assembly, and you can't do otherwise. We can talk about independence and independence. Now let's talk about Philip Korach. Here, there's a deputy or prosecutor giving up the prosecution of a convicted murderer, a criminal, a drug smuggler. Did something happen to that deputy? An endangered presumption of innocence. Oh, no, you don't. How many years has an APB been scheduled for him? If he's innocent, then why isn't he available to our organs? What's he hiding? So that's the logic of a man with a primary school -- if you're innocent, what are you running for? He shouldn't have college, he shouldn't have law school. Second question, if you're honest, where'd you get the money to hide so much? Then comes the normal, logical law of an agricultural producer with a primary school, that he paid the prosecutor who conducted the proceedings against him. Then we show an ugly picture of the work of our state and our state authorities, whether they're in executive power, whether they're independent, whether they're independent, whether they're all of them. It turns out the police only arrest those who steal the chicken, who steal the egg. It's not like that. No, but who decides who gets arrested? Well, the D.A., not the police. The police can lead to an informative conversation, to determine a 48-hour detention period, it is the prosecutor who determines the detention measures, i.e. the arrest. He's conducting an investigation, asking the police to get him and deliver evidence. If he's not capable of such a thing, don't do it. If you're not brave enough to arrest Philip Korach, don't do that job. That's not what you're up for. Be a lawyer, defend him, it's fairer, not like this. So, good thing those reforms were supposed to be constitutional, they were delayed for a while. We're going to use that time to strengthen the capacity and the state council of prosecutors and the VSS, to really come here candidates who no one can give a single serious objection to. One more thing, when it comes to those judges who break the law, such as this Majic who played terrorists, who freed the pedophile, so imagine that he says, "It is generally acceptable and in accordance with the ordinary law of the population from which he comes, it means Roma." First he insulted those Roma, that's the first thing. The second thing, wait, is that our true civic origin is of ordinary law, but I guess we've overcome the original human community. I guess we have laws now. What about the judge who broke the law? That can't be led under discretion. Found guilty, free the defendant, and that's a material violation of the law. Reason for resolution. Nothing. Here, I have here, sitting here in the SNS MP's bench, colleague Marijan Risticevic, we have a judge who does not recognise the constitutional provision of protection under the immunity of the MP. What the MP says in this room is absolute inviolability, absolute immunity, absolute. Imagine now, when it breaks, the entire one system is down. It means that the MP for voting can be held accountable tomorrow, not only for the opinion expressed. It's the same provision in the Constitution. Well, when you break one, then what, they're gonna arrest us for voting? It can't be like that. A lot more about independence and independence. Well, we keep it here for you. But we also expect you to do the right thing. We expect you to evaluate these judges and these prosecutors properly, tell the National Assembly -- this one doesn't do his job, get the conditions to send him to law school or prison. Well, let's see. I would most like to discuss the two candidates here in the National Assembly - Majic, as the judge and the prosecutor who gave up the criminal prosecution of Filip Koraæ, to know, to finally find out why they did it. Did someone give them money? Did Majiæ, when he released the Shipatarian terrorists, drug cartels Albanian, Shiparian, give money to be released? He let the Mazreka brothers go. Did he receive donations from Kosovo? They killed a 13-year-old girl just because she's Serbian. She was raped before that. Is he normal? So if the Supreme Cassation Court finds that the law has been broken, why isn't he here anymore, to catch him well, so he can see, then he can go get the N1, wherever he wants, I don't care. But until there's one single judge, one single prosecutor, they won't answer because they're not doing their job right, believe me, you won't have any independence, no independence, because they're going to destroy it all the time. All the time. All the time. They're going to tear it down and they're going to make a climate in society so they can keep doing what they're doing, for money, unfortunately, not through pay, but through other donations, from some other people, to do what they're doing and to attack your work here, and our work, too. I hope that we will never again be in a position to vote, that is, to get your proposal back, or that any candidate for a judge or holder of a judicial office will be challenged, and that the reasons for the dispute are serious. But I hope we can discuss the work of corrupt prosecutors and judges sometime.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71119	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Now the word has Nemanja Sarovic. Mr. Sarovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we have heard, today is the Christian glory of the Holy Tri-Jerarch, so here I am congratulating Orthodox believers and Serbian radicals who celebrate. But here, I'll congratulate you, unlike my colleagues, and you, former radicals. Some thank each other, some say it's not their glory anymore. It may not be yours anymore, but it was your girl's, so it's time to congratulate. The other thing is, it's interesting, really, I pointed out that at the previous session, the choice of topics we're going to discuss. I would also like to ask the chairman - when will the law on the abolition of public enforcement be on the agenda, which was handed over by the Serbian Radical Party in the procedure and supported by more than 100,000 Serbian citizens? You know very well that public performers of leeches sucking blood and tearing skin off Serbian citizens' backs every day, that these are people you've allowed to legally kidnap billions, literally billions of dinars, and that's according to these official reports we've received. By refusing to put the law on the agenda to be discussed, you do not show respect for the SRS parliamentary group, above all for Serbian citizens, and you know very well that there are many among these 100,000 people who are neither voters nor supporters of the Serbian Radical Party. You know very well that the people are hurt about what they are doing and that they are doing what they do every day, but you are absolutely not doing anything about it. You have recently, and I am convinced by the pressure of the Serbian Radical Party, by two-thirds you have reduced compensation to public executioners. This shows how much they have robbed Serbian citizens. You can see that no one is giving up on this job, which means that the compensation they're taking is still enormous and that they're completely unwarranted. As far as this agenda is concerned, I would first of all like these people who represent today these proposals to wake up from that winter dream in which they drowned. I don't know if anyone explained to them what their rights are here and what their duties are? Do you, ladies and gentlemen, know that you have the opportunity to speak indefinitely as proponents of these acts? And do you know that you are obliged to represent the suggestions you have made and the ones you have submitted to the National Assembly? Does your silence mean that you agree with all these accusations that we have heard above all from the ruling coalition MPs, from the MPs of the regime? Is it true that judges in Serbia are corrupt? Is it true they're thieves? Is it true they work for tycoons? Is it true they're breaking the laws? You have a duty to the profession you represent, to the people who elected you to the positions where you receive no small wages, you have an obligation to defend the honor of the Serbian judiciary, if the Serbian judiciary continues to have the honour. Or say – yes, it is true, the judiciary is a cancer of the state system in Serbia. Here, executive power is a perfect, legislative, probably even better one, well, the only problem in the judiciary, according to the ruling majority, because that's where those who don't want to prosecute drug dealers, those who won't pass judgments in accordance with the law. Do you have the right to sit down, to listen to such accusations and to keep your mouth shut? Will you be ashamed to return to the council of prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary? Do you think that's why they chose you and that's why you came here, to bow your heads and keep your mouth shut? I'd be ashamed if I were you. Unfortunately, it's not you. Let's hear about these deputy public prosecutors and judges whose choice you're proposing, to hear about whose people they are, to hear if they're yellow prosecutors and yellow judges, to hear if you're behind your proposals? Will their possible choice in the judiciary make it a little bit better? Let's hear if you're behind your other colleagues who work in courts, who work in prosecutors across Serbia, and see how corrupt they are, how many are those who break the law? To hear about how many of them you filed criminal charges against, how many of them are you conducting disciplinary proceedings and procedures to resolve? Is that a smaller number of prosecutors and judges, or do they make up a majority? It may be right for those who spoke, who absolutely know nothing about the judiciary, but if the situation is so bad, if you represent criminals, if you represent those who refuse to prosecute drug dealers, criminals, tycoons and others, then, gentlemen, you should answer as well. If you don't want to defend your colleagues, at least defend yourself. Are you at the top of that criminal pyramid that, as we hear from the representatives of the regime, exists and has let go of its arms, absolutely everywhere? Is it normal, gentlemen, that Zagorka Dolovac never enters this high house? Is that normal? What's the more important job he's got? Is that person there? Here, you might be seeing her. Serbian citizens wonder -- is she kidnapped, why doesn't she perform the function she was elected to, why isn't she advertised, why is she silent? What about her? Is she alive, is she kidnapped, is she prevented, is she on sick leave? Where is he? We don't know, but we know she's not where she's supposed to be and we know she's not doing what she's chosen to do. Where's Dragomir Milojevic? What more important obligation does he have today? Why doesn't he show up in public? Let's hear from these highest-ranking officials in courts and prosecutors who put pressure on the judiciary? Who's the one that's bothering you? Let's see if, in your opinion... Let's see if you have the courage to make a statement about anything. Do you have any expertise? For example, when the minister, in particular Zorana Mihajlovic, sends an official vehicle to the ministry for the arrested secretary of state to welcome him after his release from custody and drive outside the ministry, so he's waiting on the street to kiss and hug with the TV crew, is that pressure on the judiciary, is that allowed? Does the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia tell you that you can't do anything to her, that she is above you and that you have neither the strength nor the courage nor the political support needed and the will to deal with crime in this country? Is this how it is told to the judicial branch of the government that everyone should bow down and be silent as you today bowed your heads and shut up in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Is the pressure on the judiciary when the president of the Republic, after the arrest of the first secretary of state, was he the director of the "Infrastructure of the railway", but also, former adviser to Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and her close associate, whom she has appointed, arrest him, he says – I shared money with Zorana, the first one appears, neither Zagorka Dolovac, nor this Milojevic, but reports the President of the Republic and says – I believe in the innocence of Zorana Mihajlovic? Who cares what he believes? Is that the pressure on the courts? Is that pressure on the D.A.'s office? Is that allowed? If so, keep your heads down and keep your mouth shut. If not, raise your heads and stand up, for it is your duty to do so. Is the pressure when the MP says, "Oh, that's enough," talking about your independence, what kind of independence? Do you attribute it to ignorance and intricacies, or do you attribute it to a little and illicit pressure on the judiciary?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71121	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word now has Mr. Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71122	Thank you, Chairman. In line with the good customs of the Serbian people, I would first of all like to congratulate the praise of the MPs of the SRS and wish them to celebrate the glory in health and joy. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever there are proposals on the agenda of the National Assembly for decisions on the election of judges and prosecutors, this is an opportunity to somehow touch the situation in the judiciary, the situation in our judiciary. We've heard in the debate so far... Our authorised representative, Mrs Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, pointed out in her presentation how much trouble we are facing in the area of justice, and especially given the situation we have encountered, given everything we inherited, given what efforts we are making not to repair such a situation that is due, above all, to the disastrous reforms of the judiciary carried out by yellow pests during 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, when I say catastrophic judicial reform, it's not my assessment and it's not an assessment of anyone from the SNS. That's the Venice Commission's assessment. So more than 700 judges were resolved because of political inadequacy, so to speak, were not members of the ruling party then, DS, and those themselves were resolved. The resolved judges then sued the state, brought proceedings, received rulings against the state, and the result was that the state budget was damaged by 30m euros. Furthermore, judges were placed exclusively on the party line, according to the party's key, exclusively by party channels, party proposals and all of you remember that famous case from Vlasotin when the president of the Municipal Committee of DS and the president of the municipality sent a letter with proposals for judges and prosecutors in which they characterised candidates for judges and prosecutors, so they described whether the candidate was similar, whether he belonged to DS, whether he belonged to DS, whether he belonged to DS etc. and thus, in the best possible way, they showed what their relationship to the judiciary was, but also to the state. What's important to point out in this debate is that there are good results, that there is a shift. We also heard that the efficiency of the judiciary is significantly higher today than it was when the yellows led Serbia. We also heard that today the average length of court disputes is less than 250 days, and in their time it was over 500 days. So, twice as much and more than twice as much. I certainly think that we must continue to work on restoring citizens' trust in our judicial system, in our judiciary, although it is not an easy job, given everything we inherited and everything we talked about today. In this sense, there are also some negative phenomena such as that of Majic, who appears less and less in public as a judge, and increasingly as an analyst, analysts for all and all things, bloggers, whatever that means, so he presents himself – as a blogger, and increasingly as politicians in an attempt. The only thing he's known for is that he's been involved in liberating the so-called. Gnjilan groups, which was mentioned earlier by counterpart Arsic. What else is he famous for? He is known for the release of rapists, also mentioned by counterpart Arsic, but also by counterpart Zaric Kovacevic. What else is he famous for? It is known for its strong opposition to the adoption of Tiana's law. That's three things he's become famous for. Tomorrow when he retires, when they ask him - what did you do as a judge, he will say - I participated in the release of the Gjilan group, I participated in the release of rapists and strongly opposed Tian's law. That's his range. In this sense, it is surprising that the Majic has won some kind of award these days, some recognition, from some European Movement in Serbia, whatever it is, and says it is recognition - the contribution of the year to Europe for 2019. He says the European Movement in Serbia wants to encourage the involvement in the construction of a modern and democratic society in Serbia, as well as the work to promote European values and support reform processes leading to Serbia's full membership in the EU and then award the Miodrag Majic award. Even so, the rectors Popovic also gave the prize. It says - recognition of the contribution of the year to Europe was established in 2002, and it is allocated for speech, book, concrete action or the attitude of individuals, organisations, or groups of citizens who have contributed significantly to the process of European integration and promotion of European ideas and values in our country over the past year. Now I don't know how Judge Majic contributed to the process of European integration and promotion of European ideas and values in our country? I guess by letting go of this Gjilan group or freeing that rapist or by strongly opposing Tian's law. Then he says that the jury for the award winner's decision is made by the president of the movement and the former winners of the award, including Goran Svilanovic, Tanja Miscevic, Ivan Vejvoda, Sonja Licht, Sasa Jankovic, Rodoljub Sabic, "The Research Reporting Centre", that is the CINS and others. Nice company. I think it's just Natasha Kandic. Wouldn't you agree, colleague Jojic? Only Natasa Kandic is still missing this society and now Miodrag Majic is there. From all that I've said, I'd like to really appeal that these negative phenomena in our judiciary, in our judiciary, are going to be less and less in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71123	Thank you, colleague Markovic. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm also informing you that I'm now setting a break of one hour. So we continue at 3:10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71124	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs continue to work further. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71125	Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also address the gentlemen who came from the judiciary to us MPs with a new proposal for the holders of the highest judicial functions and I must remind you, and above all the citizens of Serbia that for the SRS, which has existed for 30 years in a renewed multi-party, the judiciary as an independent branch of government, is one of the foundations of society. When we compare everything that has happened backwards, first of all, since 2000, since the arrival of DOS to power and various research as many citizens believe in the judiciary, we can freely say, here today in 2020, that there are very little deviations and that trust and citizens, and also legal entities in our country in the judiciary are very few. Why so, you should ask yourself and the state authorities who, together with you, influence who people will be elected to these responsible functions. None of the citizens of Serbia, who has been in charge of a litigation that lasts for decades, so inherits, the son of a father or even other descendants, can say that the judiciary is effective. Why is that, we Serbian radicals gave an answer many years ago. When it got into the so-called. The reform, while these yellow ones were in power, when many courts, the fundamental powers in cities around Serbia were lifted, we said they would come under the allegations of impasse and that these lawsuits would last even longer, that they would profit from individual lawyers who were in line with a certain group of judges, and the prosecution's work was shown in the examinations of certain cases which are also well known to the public as very inefficient. What do we expect to expect from politicians who were able to hear from Nate Mesarovic after giving those Dracon sentences to Milorad Ulemek Legija, Zvezdan Jovanovic, that she has received a verdict through all our attempts to convince the whole, first of all, legal public and citizens of Serbia, that it is necessary to renew these judicial proceedings, because such penalties and their stay in the highest and inhumane conditions, the degree of isolation in that case in Zabela, remain unresponsive to the judicial authorities. Let's not talk about very big things about the state and the nation at all. Citizens know the SRS is closely following the trial in front of the so-called. A special court of a group of eight police officers from the special brigade of Republika Srpska, who are accused of allegedly killing Muslims in 1995. We have shown and proved that there was no genocide in Srebrenica and anyone who would say it and anyone who belonged to a judicial body, any authority that thinks so, really represents not only the enemies of this country, but thinks not well for future generations. Then we rightly asked the question – why is it that way to mount a process where from this so-called process. The charges proved not to be stone left on stone, mixed in such a way in something that was fabricated and made up and not only by our deep conviction, but through the whole process, it didn't happen. Not to mention other ordinary people who had no more money, no more power, no members of their families, to prove that they had wrongfully lost their property, that they had suffered unjustly under the past yellow regime only because they didn't want to comply with those who sold out everything and who were workers, to tens of thousands of workers who, even today, many of them are pulling these work disputes, left without bread on the street. Is it normal, here is counterpart Jojic as a prominent lawyer, as a man who has also passed the Law on Executive Procedure, on behalf of the Government and the SRS in 2000, as a federal minister, is a witness to the fact that the working dispute before the courts in charge lasts much longer than the scheduled six months. Who do you complain to? Courts or presidents of courts, such as the Kragujevac court. Astonishing that you chose the same person again as the President of the General Court in Kragujevac. It's amazing that all these complaints and the ideas that people put up with, you're deaf and that an ordinary citizen can't be protected in a state where such an obvious string is, again I say certain lawyers, and above all, a judge from one court and then senior courts. Is it normal for you, here, to address Mr. Jovicic as he is in this business for a long time, and to monitor how the processes of the General Court go, that in one procedure, I will state this to you only as an illustration, we are constantly being given as MPs of many examples. The first ruling reached by the Court of Justice in 2016, an appeal was lodged by the Court of Appeal and the judgment was lifted. There is a renewed procedure, the Supreme Court has again heard the parties, concluded the hearing and reached a verdict, otherwise it is the case of GG 3639/16, and the ruling is re-appealed, but the case under appeal submitted by this person to the Court of Appeal was adopted on 24 September 2019, and a decision was taken on Tuesday, already on 3 October, which rejected the appeal. In six working days, the Court of Appeal reacted without delay, because it is now a benefit to reverse the whole process and to damage the obvious party here who has been strenuously conducting the dispute. By the way, it's a very respected construction company and people who have absolutely nothing to do with certain judicial authorities, just wanted to defend themselves and prove their innocence. Not to mention that as early as 17 September last year, we submitted over 100,000 citizens' signatures, supporting Serbia's citizens under the law we proposed to the National Assembly to meet in this law on enforcement and security in order to abolish these private perpetrators. The Serbian mafia, which has so far been fed up with who knows... (President: I thank you. I'm just finishing up, just yet, if you'll allow me, because for some time I've been taken for incomprehensible reasons, by an SRS parliamentary group based on the replicas they've received from colleagues, but I'm ending up. (Chairman: Jovanovic was returned all the time. ) So, the executive mafia that is harassing Serbia still, you have tried through of course some symbolic reduction of their costs to protect them, in such a state, where you do not want to respect the appeal of 100,000 citizens who have given us support to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71126	Thank you. (Petar Jojic: Replica. ( ) On what basis is Jojic a colleague? (Petar Jojic: I was named by counterpart Aleksandr Markovic. ) (Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I according to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71127	I'm reporting by article 27, Mr. Arsic. I see there's a deputy secretary. So before the session began, I reacted, because I noticed in the e-parliament that I'm following here on my laptop that there was an end to the little minutes of the SRS parliamentary group anyway. That time was returned for one part of the time that Jojic had primarily as a representative of this agenda. I don't understand the need to earlier, although I'm telling you that I'm going to finish my thought by looking for and insisting, but it's obvious that this can't and will not be the case in this assembly anymore, to respect, here you are also Vice President of the Assembly, over 100,000 citizens who have given us support for... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71128	My colleague Jovanovic, you may be able to do this with a younger colleague, not me. Now, let's get this straight, three minutes and you had something before your break. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes, good. ) You stated that there was a system error and you received seven minutes and 11 seconds as it belonged. On those seven minutes and 11 seconds, I let you in at nine minutes and you asked for more discussion. I've tolerated that, too. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: To finish the sentence. ( ) It was not one sentence, all who followed the meeting of the congregation saw that it was a little more than one sentence and that it was another minute overrun. I really can't help you with that. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No, you are helping the executive mafia. I'm not helping. Well, I may be helping them, too, but I'm also helping citizens who have their own claims and who haven't been able to collect so far. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: It's okay, I don't want to. ( ) You do not want the congregation to declare itself. The right to reply, MP Petar Jojic, to present counterpart Aleksandr Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To clarify, that it wouldn't have been if I'd said it by heart, I'd have brought up some facts that don't stand. When I mentioned the deputy attorney general in Panchev, I would ask the gentleman from the state council of prosecutors to pay attention, it is about Deputy Attorney General Medakovic Goran. It was against him in 2019 to file criminal charges and disciplinary charges for violations of the law by the prosecutor, i.e. judges and that the State's Chief Prosecutors should act within the meaning of Articles 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110 and 111. Public prosecutor's law. The same prosecutor should be pointed out next, that citizen Balaban Dragan of Pančev filed against deputy public prosecutor Goran Medakovic again, a disciplinary application and criminal charges I own, here they are, for violations of the law by the deputy public prosecutor. Whoever's protecting him, we don't know that. But, note this and check it out, that deputy public prosecutor has been pressing charges against one person who killed a girl in a car accident in the middle of downtown, with a 100-mile drive. The first act of the indictment was to give him two years in prison, so that after six months, the same deputy public prosecutor would agree with a lawyer to apply for the conclusion of the plea agreement, but the prosecutor changed his indictment, and nothing changed in evidence. He suggested that the verdict be passed and given a year of house arrest to his mother on the mattress. That's the kind of prosecutor you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71130	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Studenka Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71131	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on everything we've heard in this debate, and based on the opinion of the citizens who speak to us, the general impression is that there is still dissatisfaction with Serbia's citizens with the judicial system. Although citizens well know that we MPs cannot solve the problems of this kind, they want someone to say that their voice is heard and they have the full right to expect us and to demand that we appeal to the judicial authorities, because regardless of their independence, they are obliged to be effective, impartial and to provide citizens with the right as it is overlooked by the laws. The Justice Ministry is doing everything within the scope and scope of the ministry, from the adoption of laws, through the fulfilment of obligations undertaken by international agreements, to increasing the efficiency of the work of courts through the implementation of the Justice Development Strategy, both by improving working conditions and by investing in infrastructure projects to improve the work space. However, when we talk about candidates for the presidents of the courts proposed by the High Council of Justice, it turns out that some candidates are connected, as we heard, with certain criminal groups. We didn't get any explanation of how this happened and without any intention of touching the decisions of the High Council of the judiciary, some things are simply inadmissible. Then someone will say that politicians interfere in decisions of independent authorities, but this can't actually be kept quiet. We definitely don't accept candidates like this. On the other hand, certain judges give themselves the full right to comment on daily policy issues, to deal with politics, as mentioned by Judge Majic. I don't think we should say that it's acceptable for the Court of Appeal to go to political shows and comment on court cases, to be openly involved in political issues, not to conceal its party membership at any time. To be clear, judges must be apolitical and it says so and stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Judges cannot be above legal acts, i.e. above the law. Not to neglect all those who do their job with honor and honesty, because there are more of them, that they are not all in the same basket, because they are not, and just such, honorable and honest, being driven to the street in the disastrous reform of the judiciary in 2009, because they did not want to be judged as DS tells them. Judges should justify their role before Serbian citizens by carrying out it in accordance with the law, without succumbing to the influence of any political party and even less criminal organisations, while the High Council of the Judges of Crimes is proposing for the presidents of the courts, in this case at the very least, it is scandalous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71132	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71133	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable representatives of the judiciary, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, access to justice and SNS law is one of the basic principles that must be allowed for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Justice and the right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are being brought to justice before the competent courts. Courts are required, and judges work in courts, both as a collective and as individuals to be independent of any pressure, but they must not be independent of the Constitution, independent of the law, independent of the citizens, because they make their judgments in the name of the people. Of course, since 2012, when the SNS came to power, we do everything we do to make a completely devastation system, and such a system has been a system of justice, we restore and put it on its feet, step by step, but since 2012, we have been doing it continuously. Immediately after taking over power in 2013, while Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic was in charge, a strategy for judicial reform, as well as a strategy for preventing corruption, because the SNS has zero tolerance against corruption and crime, which means that the competent state authorities and prosecutors and judges must work in accordance with laws that prescribe criminal prosecution and criminal punishment for all those involved in crime and corruption. I must commend that since 1 March 2018, when the law came into force, and in one year, by the end of 2019, 500 judgments have been made in the area of crime and corruption, some high-ranking officials are among them and, of course, SNS shows that it does not interfere with the work of the judicial authorities, on the contrary, we show that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including those who are members of the SNS, are particularly equal before the law. By 2012, a yellow tycoon company, depicted in the image of Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, destroyed the judicial system. Regardless of the votes they received from the European Union and from the Venice Commission, they remained persistent in the collapse of the judiciary. There's a question of why. The answer is very simple. Had it not been for the collapse of the judiciary to the ground, as all the other parts of the social system had destroyed, there would certainly not have been so many robberies or so much personal wealth, there would have been so many tycoons, there would have been no tycoons that had just become tycoons at the time of the government's administration, and that was the case by Dragan Gilas, because during the government's exercise, it was worth 619m euros. The yellow tycoon government, except for the collapse of the judiciary by firing 1,100 judges and prosecutors, of course, against the constitutional harm of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, of course, those judges and prosecutors, when they were returned to work, had to be paid back tens of millions of euros, they also destroyed courts, as state institutions where judges work. In fact, of the 138 municipal courts, they brought down 34 basic courts. Thus, the availability of justice to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia was very far away. Some, especially from the mountainous and mountainous areas, had to travel a hundred and a half miles [100 km] in both directions to the nearby court, and of course they did a great cost because the huge costs were for judges who traveled from place to place. Of course, what I'm trying to say is that the judges and prosecutors who are now proposing, we believe by their knowledge, that by their skill, they will restore their dignity and honor to the reputation of the judiciary, as judges individuals, but also as all together, and that the court will make it faster and more effective, which is in the interests of the citizens and for what the SNS is fighting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71134	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71135	Thank you, Chairman. Dear gentlemen of the judiciary, today we are discussing the election of the president of the courts and the deputy public prosecutors. You are an independent state body, all judges should really be who they are, but there is always some weed, among other things, that was famous Judge Majic, famous for his poor work, for inhumanity, by what he did in 2013. He's the one we're going to talk about. First of all, let's just remember the cleanup in 2008 when 1,100 judges and prosecutors went out, and nothing was caused by people being fired. I wonder why, maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to reevaluate it, who and why he fired them. Then, the fight against crime and corruption is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially our party, SNS. Now let's talk about this man, the inhuman, My dear Majiæ, my source is the Embargo. Did Judge Miodrag Majic release a verdict by the Gnjilan Shipatarian group of rapists and murderers, we all know, passed a cooperative colloquium that was a necessary measure of proof that he could stand alongside all those who would make Serbia a modern colony. The doctoral dissertation of Judge Majic, against this indefensible verdict, was a cat's cough. In this act, he handed over his tong on his knees into a mentor’s lap, which was infrequently rejoiced with a guitar in his hand. In translation, one of the two judges, the judge who made the conviction for 11 people, a total of 116 years of prison, or the one who freed them. He had to leave right away, as far as I'm concerned, on his way to Zabela. You don't need to be a lawyer at all, so don't realize that these judgments, as a diametrically contradictory interpretation of the law, are urgently requesting that one of these two judges leave his profession immediately. Hand to heart, the vast majority could right away swear that the release of the first-degreed 11 Cypriot villains was a precedent and a great shame, a great shame for the Republic of Serbia and for your profession. This court decision, in which Judge Majic's direct participant was notorious, as none before, caused very serious public disfavor both professional and unprofessional in 2013 and thus the anger and disappointment of ordinary people in the Serbian judiciary peaked. Is that exactly what the Belgrade Court of Appeals wanted, to beat the image of the judiciary enjoying Serbian society to the point of punitive judgments, and so weakly, at the wish of those who would do anything just out of their own interests. Let's get back to the beginning of this morbid tale of the dishonesty of individual judges. The Major Court's War Crimes Department in Belgrade condemned 11 members of the KLA's Gjilan Group on 19 September 2019 for crimes against Serbs in Gjilan in 1999, and six indictees cleared the charges. 80 people were killed in the Gjilan area between June and December 1999, and 260 were captured, but according to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, other KLA units were also responsible. The terrible tortures were committed in the basement of the Gjilan boarding school, as well as in a single solitary. The Belgrade Court of Appeals announced on the site an explanation of the verdict that has rightly freed members of the KLA's Gjilan Group of Crimes against Serbs and non-Albanians in Gjilana municipality from June to December 1999. In this case, the Court of Appeal held the main investigation in September 2013 and carried out its own key evidence, after considering in May the complaints of the defendants and the war crimes prosecutor's office at the verdict, condemning 11 members of the group to a total of 116 years in prison, while six were cleared of the indictment. The defendants were also cleared of charges before the War Crimes Department and before the Court of Appeal for the charges that in early June 1999 in the territory of Gjilan and its surroundings ordered and committed to the civilian population of the Serbian and non-Albanian, especially the Roma populations, were illegally imprisoned, tortured, raped, killed. One source from "Kurira," you won't believe what they were doing, and I have to do it for the public, just to see what we have, 90%, 95% of the people are honoring you, you're doing your job well, but these 5% are ruining your image. Just get it out of there. A fellow witness says: We cut down women's breasts and burned. This is only part of a witness statement from a co-worker in this process that "Kurir" has come to. This witness took part in the crimes, and he testified several times, each time giving an identical statement. We had a boarding school where we brought victims and torture procedures. Imagine, torture procedure. The procedure meant bringing the victim in first, taking off, and then asking her questions. Whatever she says, we'd always beat her up with a fourth iron stick. It was a rule to take their souls slowly, to tear them apart and burn them so that no one would find them. My job used to be, says that witness associate, that I'm throwing bodies. We tied the victims high to the hands to hang and just threw them on the floor when they came to order. We used to cut off women's breasts for fun and bake them. The room smelled really bad, because that's where the job was being done, and there was a big sewerage where we threw waste, that's us Serbs and the rest of us. There was so much blood that we had to strip ourselves naked to torture them and clean up afterwards. We would cut off everyone's heads, cut off their bellies, tear them apart, and carry them out in sacks. People were screaming when we tortured someone. In front of them, we threw away the heads of their relatives, God forbid, we raped whenever we could. Our favorite way of torture was to hit someone. Watch it, make a hole in his forehead and then throw a lighter in there. Any, it didn't come back. I read this to see who this Majic judge who set these people free, my people. Any, it didn't come back. I believe in your profession, and I hope that these people, inhumans, will be thrown out of your ranks immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71136	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71137	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the High Council of the Courts and Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us the proposals for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, a part of the prosecutors. The High Council of the judiciary has established for all candidates how we see from the biography of expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates. He also held talks with the candidates and nearly all the candidates received results in the paper "specially stands out" which is very commendable in the end, as it speaks of the candidates themselves. Furthermore, all candidates who were first elected to serve as judges passed the basic court exam and scored five. That's good. This tells us that these young judges will truly be a guarantee of the improvement of our judiciary. Dear People's MPs, I must say today that our judiciary during the former government, a party of the former regime, decorated in Dragan Gilas, known as the Điki Mafia, of 619m euros, Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, Janko Veseninovic, a resident. It's the one who stole Milici Bajji's apartment in Obrovec, Street of Brace Kurjakovic No. 7, otherwise the president of the Obrovac Association. Our judiciary was the worst in Europe in the last 36 places. Just to remind you of the honourable citizens and respected MPs, and representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and the prosecution know, some judges have died of injustice, and some have committed suicide, 20 of them have died in my records, and five have committed suicide. They made one of the biggest scandals in the history of the judiciary, unrecorded in Europe. What's this about? They chose dead Judge Ljubisha Djuric as judge. Believe it or not, Nata Mesarovic, the president of the Visa Council of the judiciary said, I quote - I held a conversation and checked all the judges and spent 200 hours talking. It's a finished quote. I ask us honourable MPs and citizens of Serbia the question, how could the President of the Supreme Council of the Courts, Nata Mesarovic, speak to the dead judge? So you see how they worked at the time. The former government has chosen judges who have never worked in the judiciary. You gentlemen of the judiciary know it very well, and behold, the assistant minister of justice did not have a degree in law school. The tie, the purse, the bow and the field. One of the five best judges in Serbia at the time did not elect a district court. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the judiciary? But they therefore chose Judge Sonja Brkic, who violated the Law on Judges because at the same time she believed or did not perform the functions of the Supreme Court judge and the function of President RIK, although the Law on Judges then explicitly prohibited it. Dear People's MPs, she illegally took to RIK in 2008, alienated, stole, to make the citizens understand better, two million 673 thousand dinars and refused to return the money. That's the justice that was in the mess. Now I'm going to give you a quote, see what kind of justice is going on, and I'm going to say in the end today, according to my humble assessment of where we are. I quote: "The judge's re-election process was non-transparent when they introduced the reform. Risking the process of independence of reforms implemented by the former regime was the worst possible thing. “Current quote, from the book "Court Reform in Serbia 2012" and published next to the book "Politika" 7.7.2012. I don't want to bother you very much, but let me just say it's dignity, you're representatives of the VSS and the lawyers here, especially Professor. Martinovic, whose profession it is, is worthy of being one of the basic characteristics of the judge. The question arises – what is the dignity of Judge Majic, which my esteemed previous MPs spoke of? Are his moral values questionable or not? They certainly are, from at least three things. First, because he freed, as the predecessors said, so-called. The UCK's dinar group, which tortured Serbian civilians in the most playful way. That's what the predecessors talked about more. Second, because he's known for his fierce criticism of life sentences for child murderers, and he let go of the freedom of maniacs who promised a 13-year-old girl. Third, his hosting to the N1 CIA and his statements are pure politics, I wouldn't even say politics, because politics is the right thing to do, but politics. His statements on the president of the state, on the ruling set, only says that he is a member of a political party called the N1 deception of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the deception of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Serbian state, respected MPs and wonders, the deception of everything advanced in Serbia, whatever they start to do, they criticise. Not only are they criticizing, but they're against every building. What Mr. Risticevic was saying about the Cosmic, I'm not going to say anything, because he said it, but I was at the judge who convicted, like, come on, for the same thing between me and Mr. Risticevic, but I was a citizen, listening. And everything is exactly what he said. I can't believe the judge who freed the Cosmic has no Constitution on his desk, but he had to give it, that's the gentleman I listed, the MP Risticevic. And only when he asked them to give him the materials on Cyrillic, did you hear all about it. Dear People's MPs, let me say, however, that significant shifts have been made in the judiciary. The predecessors have already said, most, the vast majority, judges and prosecutors are doing their job with honor and honor. It's a minority that overshadows everything else, but it's a matter of VSS and I say, and other authorities to put certain judges and prosecutors in a certain place. I support what Mr. Martinovic said to return, not only, but also here are debated by candidates for the presidents of the courts, and it is true that what someone said today, the presidents of the courts must be authorities, not only in the judicial capacity, but they must have moral and other qualities. It's been so everywhere since the ages and the world have always been. I have to say about efficiency, Serbia is making some progress when it comes to reducing the number of real cases that burden the judiciary and that is where a certain shift has taken place, speeded up judicial proceedings, the Council of Europe Commission, concludes that Serbia is progressing in that direction. This is not only my assessment, but also the Commission said so, especially when it comes to the length of the proceedings in Serbia, about a year or 360 days, unlike Italy, which is an EU member and has 700 days. I still don't count it, the shifts seem, it's not easy why, because the predecessors introduced eight hundred thirty something judges, who never even worked in the judiciary, and we have problems with them, because they only took party characteristics, which we read here in the previous term, and characteristics. And today they are in the judiciary and the greatest burden of justice, not all, but most of them do. Dear People's MPs, you mentioned journalists here today, but before that, allow me another example of the judges before the press. We had for the former regime a verdict in Belgrade, a verdict by the garbage mafia, which damaged the Belgrade city's budget, by 310m dinars, when the mayor was Djiki, called the mafia, Dragan Gilas. Now, it's a trial if you've been following, it's been a long time, they've even been punished in the first degree, in the second degree, and it's said that Dragan Gilas has put his fingers and his money in order to free the garbage mob, so much for that part. Now, as far as the press is concerned, I'm going to read only one quote, as well as the ones from "Today", who falsely convey our statements, especially here I am looking at Dr. Martinovic, his statement from the assembly, attributing to what he never said here, has never spoken a hate speech in this high house. Look at the stenograms, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are listening. Let them meet. I will now quote Mr. John Swinton, former head of staff in the New York Times on a toast he held outside the New York Press Club in 1953. I quote - The job of a journalist is to destroy the truth, to lie openly, to twist, to injure, to bow before a golden calf and sell their own land and people, to earn bread. And the gentlemen of the N1 and the CIA, what do you say? Next, everyone knows it, the quote goes – what all these praises about the independent press. We are the tools and servants of the wealthy behind the scenes of Dragan Gilas, Petreus, or I don't know, Schoolmates, what their colleagues were talking about. I quote further – we are puppets, they draw strings, and we dance, our talent, our ability and our life, they own other people, and watch out, last sentence – we are pro-intellectual prostitutes, finished quotes, said John Swinton, former head of staff in the New York Times, in a toast he held outside the New York Press Club, far from 1953, and Mr. Journalists, from various publications, to be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71138	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in order to be clear, in the course of the trial for an opinion delivered at the National Assembly session, it is true that the judge in New Belgrade, which I believe is the Court of First Instance, on my remark that I cannot be called to criminal and second responsibility for my duties, therefore, cannot be called, Article 103. The Constitution and a member of the Law on the National Assembly, that I could not be called to criminal and other responsibility, he answered me the following, which was so frantic and frightening to me. Yeah, that's what the Constitution says, but I think differently, and I disagree with what it says in the Constitution. On my remarks that the lawsuit was delivered to me on the Latin, and that as a member of the Serbian people, I have the right to a Cyrillic to an official letter and that it was guaranteed to me by the Constitution, he boldly replied that he thought that I had no right to a Cyrillic. These were not enough reasons to get rid of such a judge and I was addressing the VSS and I got the answer, that no matter what the judge broke the Constitution and the law, he couldn't be resolved. You gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary, you need to tell us if you will allow the judges who have conducted the proceedings against Zelenovic, Mayor of Sapco? That flag is outrageous. So, as far as I know about the abuses of five or six million euros. It is outrageous, that the judges, just the judges, have brought the case to a standstill just to make amends to the famous reform when the former regime's party chose judges, which confirms my claim that a large number of judges are not dependent on this authority, that they are independent of us, but independent of the former government. I am afraid that there is a rematch and that there is still part of the DS organisation, the reserve system, which is placed in the judiciary and that it is concerned that their Mesmites, those who brought them to those places, are not in some cases convicted and that this is the case of Zelenovic. So I ask – what will the High Council of the judiciary do against the outrageous statute of limitations in the case of Zelenovic in Sapac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71140	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71141	Thank you. Dear Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the honourable MPs, today we have in principle the proposals for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors and the election of judges elected for the first time. The election procedure has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges, as well as the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges. It is important to note that a continuity in the work, in the evaluation, has been established in the assessment of candidates. During the former government, to remind you, we had a failed reform of the judiciary and the collapse of the judiciary. In 2009, 836 judges and 100 deputy public prosecutors were left without their posts. It all cost the state, and the price was paid by the citizens in their pockets. The Constitutional Court has returned all these judges and public prosecutors. Since 2012, the justice ministry has made great efforts to improve the situation in the Serbian judiciary. One of the SNS priorities is the rule of law, strengthening judicial functions will lead to judicial strengthening. Measures have been taken to improve the judiciary. This concerns the functioning of a network of courts and prosecutors, as well as better protection of citizens' rights. Thus, citizens will have equal access to justice and a better attitude towards judicial authorities. It is important to say that we have had progress and great infrastructure investments in building new court buildings. A number of completely new buildings have been built for the work of misdemeanor courts, the Court of Justice in Belgrade has been completed. Also, the introduction of a judicial information system significantly improves the efficiency of judicial proceedings. In this way, time is shortened, which is shorter and cheaper for citizens. After more than a decade of waiting, the law on free legal aid began to apply. Today, all Serbian citizens have equal access to justice. The D.A. had good results at work. The fight against corruption is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The principle of zero tolerance to corruption. The Law on lobbying and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption has been adopted. Four new anti-corruption regional centres have been formed in senior public prosecutors and senior courts. Significant results have been achieved with regard to the expertise of judicial authorities. It was an improvement in capacity, transparency, as well as mechanisms of disciplinary responsibility. The performance results were achieved through a reduction in the number of pending cases. Judges, prosecutors and police in the fight against corruption and organised crime are visible. The national strategy aims to strengthen judicial independence, as well as comprehensive measures to improve impartiality, expertise and responsibilities of judicial holders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71142	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71143	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of my presentation in this debate in which we are talking about the termination of the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia and the election of some judges who are first elected as judges, I would like to point out that I fully support the decision of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to refuse, i.e. to return the proposal of the High Council of the Court of Justice on the choice of judges in some basic courts, the President of the Courts in some basic courts. For the simple reason that no one in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can deliver a proposal in principle if it passes. That proposal had to be approached more seriously. Through the presentation of MPs, they generally make objections to the work of the judiciary, and there is much less praise. I'm not a lawyer, but as a politician, I can hear pleasure. The dissatisfaction of citizens with all branches of government and it is evident that the judiciary is taking an invisible position. It would be interesting if some public opinion research agency did some research and we could see how happy the people in Serbia are. Unsatisfactory by the judiciary. The consequences of misrepresented judicial reforms are visible today, and will also be felt in the future. That things are not as they should be noted by EU representatives, and they have repeatedly shown this through the conditions of negotiation and EU accession assessments, above all, through Chapters 23 and 24 covering the area of justice and fundamental rights, justice, freedom and security. We have much more to do as a state and as a society, so that our judiciary becomes independent, in the right sense of words, in order to achieve European standards, from judicial reform, through anti-corruption policy to fundamental rights and the rights of EU citizens. Our goal must be an independent judiciary, with all necessary capacities to maintain and protect the rule of law. When it is said -- independently, it is meant to be independent of other pillars of government, independence from politicians, political parties, from the influence of any kind, regardless of where these influences come from, from individuals, groups of bodies and organisations, or from general public opinion, regardless of whether the influences originate from the country or abroad. We remember, not long ago, that Dusan Petrovic, Slobodan Homen and Bosko Ristic, senior officials of the Democratic Party, as key realisers of the famous judicial reform from 2009 to 2011, led the judiciary to the position of being and how, depending on politics, politicians, the ruling state structure and the Democratic Party that was then in power. We're still feeling the consequences today. Coli Martinovic set an example that the High Judicial Council has proposed a senior official of the Democratic Party, a member of the Democratic Party presidency, to the president of the Basic Court, which is inadmissible. There's a lot of examples. I've come to an example myself. It is a flagrant disrespect of the second-degree authority in resolving an employee civil servant's appeal at the Criminal Court in Zajecar. Infringement court in Zajecar has reached a solution on the deployment of civil servants and the determination of the call. One of the employees complained about the solution, presented his arguments, and the Court's Appeals Commission in Belgrade reached a solution that annuls the verdict of the President of the Criminal Court in Zajecar and returns the case to the first-degree body for retrial. However, the first-degree body again brings a solution, completely identical, but completely identical as originally, which, normally, the employed civil servant again complains about. The Board of Appeal again makes a solution that invalidates the verdict of the President of the Criminal Court and returns it to the first-degree body for retrial. That's the second time. The Failing Court in Zajecar again, regardless, makes a solution as if nothing had happened, the exact same, the exact same. Third time. The employee complains again. The second-degree body again makes a decision, annuls the verdict of the Criminal Court, the fourth time. The misdemeanor brings a solution again, as if nothing was going on. Simply, for them, a second-degree organ does not exist. They're bringing back, fifth time, a solution, which, normally, the employees are complaining about again. The process is under way. I didn't name names on purpose. The judge of that criminal court has the ambition to become president of the court. Okay, he's got ambitions, but if he doesn't respect his employees either, well, how will he respect ordinary citizens? He's independent of second-degree decisions. Is that independence? If we really want to become a full member of the EU, then all parts of society as a whole, all pillars of government, from legislative, through executive, to judicial authorities, make their contribution through the necessary reforms, work and results. There is an impression in the public that on this road to Serbia's development and progress, it is this branch of government, judicial authority, helmet and lags behind and that it is non-shallantly related to all movements of society as a whole, acting as a brakester of overall development. Well done with the exceptions. It's a great honor for those who achieve the results that are visible and in the judiciary. It's a great honor for these individuals or individual institutions in the judiciary, but the general impression of the public, I'm saying this as a politician who is in daily contact with citizens, is that the judiciary in general as an independent branch of government is actually the greatest braker of the development of society. I'd like to finish my presentation with this, and you, gentlemen of the judiciary, think about all this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71144	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71145	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there isn't a man who doesn't know much or who knows enough. This is just one of the very wise words of our famous bishop Nikola Velimirovic, who in one very simple way tells us about what we are and what we think of ourselves. We're all convinced we know a lot, and rarely who's willing to admit he doesn't know enough. But there's another saying that says, the fool thinks he knows everything, and a smart man is aware of how much he doesn't know. I won't be so hard on our guests, but I will try at least in some way to point out something that should be respected and what should be in the practice of this country that I suppose we all love and we all want to be among the best, if not the best. All of you who practice law and participate in Serbia's legal system have your protector Justicia, the Roman goddess of justice and justice, one, according to history, an honorable woman, who is decorated, when we look at her, as a woman with her eyes tied, who holds in one hand a terrace, or a scale, and in the other hand a sword, which should symbolize to us that she is impartial and that she correctly weighs away guilt and innocence. In ordinary life, in practice, we hear very often the opposite opinions, so some of the speakers say - and why are her eyes tied? That he doesn't see injustice, that he doesn't see much of what's going on in reality. On the other hand, the sword in her hand, they say, symbolizes that those in power who are in power are always right. Is that how it has to be? We need to know that we always need to beat whoever's right and whose side justice is on. That is why we must all together, both with you and with all those who work in the judiciary, fight for Serbia to be a country of justice and justice. Judges, prosecutors, lawyers and all of you other followers in the field of justice and justice, you who are by God's will determined to measure the wine and innocence in his name here on earth, must judge us, by justice and by law, in accordance with moral and applicable laws. For you to do your work, the arches must be the same for both the poor and the rich, and for workers and for peasants, and for doctors and professors, and miners and masters. There are no prerogatives before justice or law. They're all equal, and the laws have to apply to everyone, as well as to justice. Your judgments protect your cheek and your name and the name of your ancestors and descendants. You protect the reputation of courts and justice in general. I'm not saying I don't have any criticism for what's going on in our justice system. I do, but I also have some tips. I fully support all my colleagues, especially colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, who have been talking for days about dishonest business and the behaviour of the perpetrators in some way and notaries. That's where we made a big mistake, and we ran into ourselves under a conductor's stick and the Venice Commission, and I don't know who everyone is, and we tried to get something in our system that might not even be responsible for us. We also made a mistake with that network of courts and all together, no matter who's more guilty, who's less guilty, we now have an obligation to make it right. We can't look forward to it because someone once did it, and all of Serbia's citizens suffer. I know that it's not easy for those people who work in the judiciary and it's not easy because their work is very responsible. They are the ones who have to bring judgment on every work that has been done, but that is why I am telling you, but it applies to all citizens, because we have remained, as you are, descendants of honest, honest and upright people, our ancestors, and we must behave as we do to them, as it were to them, and as it is to us as their descendants. In order to know how it should be, I will remind you of the testimony of the mother of Jerosima, who tells her son Mark how he should behave, or how he should judge when he was able to decide who the empire should belong to. She says: “Marko, my son, the only one in my mother, was not my wound cellar. Don't speak falsely, son, neither by grandmother, nor by uncles, but by the justice of God of truth. Don't, son, lose your souls, it is better to lose your head than to sin your soul." Simple, simple, understandable for everyone. And why aren't we acting like one? We are in a position to give you advice, to tell you how we and the people see and think, but you are in a much greater position to do so. I want you to be successful, to be the most successful in our system and give common forces to bring our system to the state it deserves. Thank you, and I wish you good luck with that job.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71146	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We talked about the importance of work, or the importance of functions to be performed by judges and prosecutors. We also talked about the consequences, to say the least, of the irresponsible relationship to the judiciary by 2012 and the currents of DS, which are in the judiciary blatant people who think that God is given to being judges and prosecutors and that they are very strong and professional, because the Democratic Party once stood behind them. And then, in 2009, they thought they were stronger than rights, than justice and the law. It took a long time for our judiciary to recover, get back on track, and that was one of the priorities, when the SNS took over. But by doing so, the SNS has also assumed responsibility for the functioning of the judicial system and so far we have shown that they can still conduct procedures and procedures in accordance with the laws that apply in our country. It is bad when the judiciary is subject to political influences and we have to take good care not to repeat the 2008-2009 situation, which would destroy our judicial system. Why am I saying this? I see that during today's debate some of my colleagues set concrete examples, so I will show you who is running for office and why I insist that the competitions, or that the talks be more detailed and that the information you have is real. You have, for example, a fundamental court official in Zajecar who did not hide for one moment that he was in the party of Vuk Jeremic, also seeing members of the board, the municipal board and the co-ordinators of the Zaječar district of Jeremic's party, and he wanted to be the president of the court. Is this creating a space for the influence of politics on judges, how will they judge, etc? Does that create a space for corruption? Does that make citizens lose their trust in the judiciary? Does that hurt our country? And most importantly, are you all wondering when you're talking to candidates and when you're proposing them to the National Assembly? That's why we all need to be very careful to approach the election of the president of the courts. Indeed, I urge you to have a better approach, to have a more serious view of the facts, to have more detailed information, and for the integrity of the courts and for the integrity of the Assembly and for the protection of general and state interests and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71148	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71149	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as well as every time we touch the subject of justice, we can't help but remind ourselves, it's impossible, you know, to take care of that system properly, and knowingly avoid some issues being dealt with properly, which means how the law prescribes, but also how some things should be encouraged within, to carry a man, so some virtues dictate. This, of course, should also apply to the willingness to deal with things that are not pleasant, to problems that are not easy and to show both resolve and courage when it comes to whether or not you will succeed in that official intention that should guide you in doing your job, to satisfy, therefore, the need for justice, to meet the need for respect for those principles that are written in the laws. When we talk about justice, we inevitably return to some subjects and it will be so until it is clear that closing our eyes is never the right solution. Already today people who deal with these issues can know, and it would be strange not to know, can only pretend not to know, that in this society there are open threats that other people will be threatened, that fundamental rights will be trampled on other people, that our order will collapse. If we face tomorrow's attempts to make these threats come true in practice, no one has the right to be ignorant, to say that the situation has found him unprepared, that something like this could not have been expected. What am I thinking very specifically? You today have by the minority, a convincing minority, when it comes to how politically relevant they are and how much they have any support, or how they do not, publicly threatened that, they say, by all means, they will, remember, by all means, fight against the formation of institutions in the Republic of Serbia after the elections that await us this spring. So, a political organisation or a set of different organisations, parties, movements, which are already led by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, the fascists from Dvora, different remains of the DS, publicly state that they will first oppose democratic elections in Serbia, publicly declare, I am now literally telling you their words, that they will prevent other people from voting, that they will physically prevent other people from using their basic right to say what they think about the fate of their country, the fundamental right to ask other people to deny and that they will use physical force to do so, and then that, as they say, they will, by all means prevent the formation of institutions and their further work. When you're told by all means, that means violent methods, right? By all means, that includes that kind of asset and measure. So already today we need to know, some in this country are openly threatened by violence, by destroying institutions, by endangering other people and their rights. And that is something that must be kept in mind by people who are dealing with the question of what our judiciary is doing today, tomorrow or in the period ahead of us. There's absolutely no ignoring that. Since I know that the question will be asked whether it is a relationship, it will be claimed that it is in connection with the fact that this political group of representatives of the former regime government, representatives of the tycoon who are used to being rich in the coat of arms of the people, no, has nothing to do with it. So, absolutely nothing to do with what I'm telling you right now has anything to do with the fact that, as we can see, there's nothing of their so-called. The boycott, of course, is a false boycott, because it applies to everything, just not to their pocket, which is actually the essence of things in these people. This has to do with much more important issues. But when I tell you that their idea of a boycott is falling apart, and that doesn't go unannounced, I'll explain to you in detail what I mean. So besides being one of their so-called founders for months. The alliance, Stamatovic, declares it politically not quite reasonable and since he himself said it would have nothing to do with their violent methods of taking over power, but a man wants to go to elections, which is totally fine. It doesn't look like they're doing much better in Paracino these days, either. Sasa Paunovic, president of the Paracin municipality, has been scramblingly struggling these days to explain that he is not, as they call him, a traitor because he wants to go to the elections. To make it clear to you to the end what's going on out there. He says, and this is news from, it seems to me, last night, trying to explain his position and how he found himself in an unguarded grape, that now he has to explain to them whether he is their traitor or not their traitor, that's what they call him. He says, as early as August 2019, as seven months ago, he and the others there, he said, decision-makers, with Gilas, Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, who led the fascists from Dveri, agreed that there was no problem in the election of him in his municipality. He says – August 2019 was resolved and there was no problem in the local elections until a few days ago, and then, he said, in an incomprehensible way, circumstances changed. So, firsthand, we have a confession that they lied all the time. Of course we don't expect liars to behave differently until they lie. Now we have confirmation that even now, on this last case, people have been lying all along, telling Serbia how they're going to demonstrate some terrible dictatorship, so terrible that we're going to talk for a minute and on this subject, but all the time they're selling each other a story -- we're going to do completely different from what we're serving people today, so they come in February, and now they're trying to explain that it's good that they lied, but now they don't have a way to realize what they wanted, that they seem to have a fight with each other in the meantime. Paunovic says that no one promised him anything, it was nothing on the veracity, he agreed before that story, before those lies about their so-called so-called. The boycott, that if the negotiations fail and remain an official boycott decision, will apply the precedent and that it will go to the elections and everyone has told him it's perfectly fine. Also, part of the deal was that he did not seek to open the issue immediately, therefore, to lie openly, to go into making people lie, and to lie to everyone, and to him who agreed not to boycott, and Zelenovic who agreed not to boycott, but to lie together, to try to prepare the ground for what they were really most interested in all the time, which brings us back to the story that is important. So what they're falling apart is interesting and it's important that we see one more time... You know, the sweetest thing is when liars themselves admit to being liars. That's the nicest thing. There's nothing to add and to interpret, just show yourself what they said, and it's good for the people to hear, to see what he's been dealing with and what he's dealing with today, but to lead us to what's important that they actually want to do the whole time to prepare the ground for the application of violent methods, to take power on the street, and they say it openly. When people like Bosko Obradovic tell you – on the street we will change power, on the street we will become presidents, ministers, leaders of local self-government, directors of public enterprises, that you know that these are obviously serious intentions and serious threats, so you will add to all this that they are openly threatening, for example, and journalists, that they will send them to life sentences, more importantly, that they will introduce death sentences for them. So no one has the right to pretend in Serbia today that they haven't heard it or consciously ignore it so they can say tomorrow – how come now? These are things that should be kept in mind by people who deal with justice in our country. There is rarely more than one good reason for us to worry about the situation in the judiciary, even at the meetings of the National Assembly, we ask ourselves openly. Today, other MPs and the decision taken on the committee of elders spoke. Mr. Martinovic spoke. Ambassador Risticevic also wondered about the actions of the High Council of the judiciary, and again not at one time, and there are things that, let me be honest with you, are not clear to me today. There are questions that seem to be asked over and over again with the intention of never being clear to the end and never being cleared to the end. When we talk about what he thinks and what attitudes are represented by the High Council of the Judiciary, once again, without any desire for us to fight with anyone, we can't help but wonder what it means when, for example. The announcement came, and a statement came just ten days ago or something more, on January 28th of this year, so this statement appears to be published on the site, which literally begins with the words: "The high council of the judiciary expresses serious concern about the behaviour and statements of high-ranking state officials". So high-ranking state officials are being criticised. For what? Because of statements that create mistrust in the judiciary and destroys the authority of the court and the judge. Imagine that. High-ranking state officials create mistrust in the judiciary of citizens and these officials destroy the authority of the court and the judges. Now a man can't ask you what it's like, and what it's supposed to be, because it's code to talk and to interpret what it's meant to be. To speak plainly, did this mean the situation where, for example, Mayor Vukevic says that literally laughing in the face of everyone in this country when one former minister comes out and says – even though you all know what I did, here, I am today a free man and can't do anything to me? Is it a sin to say this doesn't make any sense, we can't see a trace of justice here, not even justice? What is a sin to say – people, this really is nowhere and this can't be explained? This now, even those who are directly responsible for such developments, to get out on the street, to talk to an ordinary man whom they meet, any man, cannot explain how such a thing is possible. So, are we all blind in the eyes, and you, and us, and the people who belong to other political organizations and those people who walk the streets while we're talking, that we all know exactly what happened and we know exactly who he is and how much he managed to earn while he was dealing with the most serious, responsible duties in this country, so that in the end someone would say, you're stupid and you're all crazy that you think you know everything, even though you saw it, but you're innocent, they didn't do anything wrong? The fact that it's been broken down to change someone's property card several thousand times, so in other rows of size, that's for some criteria, it's a simple circumstance, you know, a living environment. Someone was lighted by a lucky star right at the moment he was in a position, an opportunity to abuse power, so, well, it started in life. You might think of the situation where the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, and only because there is no one else, and only because there is no one else's courage, says – people, are you telling us now that he's the biggest, most dangerous drug dealer in this country, too, an innocent man, and yet everyone knows everything? Again, each of you will ask him in private, whether you have heard of it, whether you know what he is dealing with or what everyone will say to you, so it is clear. It's absolutely clear to everyone, it's just not who needs that courage, to go back to it, to gather at a certain point and say – this is going to be processed. I don't know what else should happen until even a man is found willing to be a witness associate, so that the opportunity doesn't take advantage of getting those things kicked out, but even to the devil, what some would say, comes to being threatened, to get hurt, to be a seriously wounded member of his family. Imagine a man who should essentially contribute to finding someone like a leading dealer behind bars and yet there was nothing and yet we have no idea and yet they are all innocent, innocent people, the lambs of God. Breaking it is, you say, then some organization, some structure in this country when Alexander Vukic comes out and says, "This doesn't make any sense," and he says, "We're not blind, we're not deaf, we're not stupid," and he says, "Don't laugh in people's faces anymore." Why does he say that? Why does an interpretation of the High Council of the judiciary create mistrust, imagine, destroy authority, imagine? You know why? Because he doesn't have the guts to do it. Nobody, for example, collects that loop in the D.A.'s office, but Alexander Vukic has to come out and say some things that are clear to everyone because nobody else in this country can. Then what exactly are we criticizing? Are we fighting for justice and justice? Somehow we all want to think we're doing it. The same letter, the same statement, says: “They are worrying about the statements of certain MPs, ” we have come to us,“ which question the right of judges to freedom of opinion, expression and association. ” So, he talked about it, Mr. Risticevic. It worries that MPs are allowed to say in the National Assembly for a pay phone, which is one on one with the function of the MP and there's nothing more natural than that, people, there's something wrong here, to indicate... There are no names again, but what it means is we comment on the freedom of opinion of a judge or the right to associate a judge. There's no name, but did you mean Majic? The right to freedom of opinion. So it's okay when the judge comes out and says publicly -- there's no right for the MP to advocate that whoever destroyed children's lives should be more fit than before, and he says -- there's no MP right to do that, and that's fine. Then when the Messenger of the people rises up and says, "What does it look like?" "What does it have to do with your work?" Does that make any sense? This man, surely since he doesn't write his name again, but he also has something to do with this merger, right? It doesn't say, but it's like it's standing here in this text called "Cepres". Was it an NGO where the member, the official, the manager, some, I don't know if the chairman of the board or the president of the association, doesn't matter, the same Majic? And now I need, as MPs, to feel guilty about what we say – people are not normal, so it's not normal, it's an NGO, it's a company. It's a company, so something that's been done, so it works to get some money for its activities, to be judges at the firm together, to be people in the prosecutor's offices and to be lawyers. Guys, it's not normal. What does that look like? And watch out now, that even says court. There were situations in which the court had to react because one of these judges found himself in case he looked into the eyes of a defense attorney and had to act professionally in that case, and that defense attorney was his friend from their joint firm, from their joint NGO, where they participated in any kind of tender, as it is already called. And now we need to believe that it's all perfectly fine and there's no reason to doubt the respect of the law, the objective relationship with the case, so there is, and I remind you, that's not the first thing we've said, that's what one court in this country said, and we're supposed to be pretending to be ignorant again and we don't know anything and we didn't see anything and we don't understand anything under God's love, so let's say – that's all right. Well, it's not right. It's not okay, and you know what else is wrong, when we point at these things from a pay phone from here, but where else, we get a reaction from the High Council of the Judiciary, which says, it worries what we're talking about, what we're even thinking about and who the MPs are asking on these things, what's clearly wrong with every man in this country, that it's not good, that it's not normal, that there's no point in making sense. And now feel free to forget about what might be wrong with someone's ears, what all the cases are and how these people we're talking about are doing right now. Let's just see if it makes sense that when there's no courage for institutions to do their jobs, you're criticizing whoever's got that courage. Is there any point in defending MPs to say what they are and what's wrong, what's wrong, what's wrong with the law, or rather choosing to support someone's strange attempts to build their political careers, abuse their functions or institutions that represent them? We've read here a few times, and I'm not going to convince you everything now, but let's just say when this Mr. Majic comes out on TV or in some fancy interview he says - nothing's wrong in this country. In this country they run, as he says – you stupid, incompetent people, ignorant people who know nothing, so think again about the state officials, from Alexander Vukic, and beyond, he says – everything is falling apart, everything is backwards, etc. And that's how it's gonna be until people rebel. So the man calls for rebellion. Watch out now – and as long as people don't say nothing in health care, there's nothing wrong with school, there's nothing wrong with... Keep thinking for yourself. So what is it, but politics? You now want to say this letter and attitude – it is not right Marko Atlagic when he says, "No, it is policy-making and it has nothing to do with whether or not the man is a judge." This is a policy of general practice. He wants to build a political career? It's all right, it's nothing controversial, be my guest, but not from the judge's position. He wants to run for office in some presidential election, no problem, but not from the judge's position. In this country, more than enough was the case of a Sasa Jankovic who did the same by misusing the position of the Citizens' Protector. And it was clear to everyone, but still some people chose to pretend they didn't see anything, they don't understand anything, it's easy that we're all deaf and stupid and it'll be better. Well, he won't, because by doing so, he's managed to devalue to the ground to destroy an institution. It's the Civil Protection Institution. Because he did so at the time and tolerated many and even supported him, today everyone expects the Citizens' Protector to represent nothing but a witch hunter on duty, that he should please everyone's whims, inventions and only do political work against those people who care about the Republic of Serbia at the moment. Should people have the same expectations from the court or the D.A.'s office tomorrow? Should people in this country experience institutions in this way? Well, no. Would that mean, unfortunately, that these institutions have been thoroughly destroyed and that what we all swear we won't allow it, exactly what we all claim to fight against? So, ladies and gentlemen, the VSS deserves, since it is an institution, to get proper respect from the MPs, but also to show it from the other side and not to allow itself to come down to the level, as I would like to say, literally this Gilasov Tabloid, this "daysoid". You have heard today how beautifully, so juicyly, paraphrasing our words, artfully interpreting us, and they say, "People's MPs, only because they don't let anyone treat Serbia with disrespect, if that's why they use some hate speech." The institutions in this country must not allow themselves to come down to that level and be leveled tomorrow with the worst in politics that only destroys everything they touch, equating them with their five-pare media, such as Jovanovic, Kostreši, who has not already answered everything on these issues. If we want the rule of law, and we say we will, then let's show that we fight for it in principle, that we care, not only about what laws prescribe, but about what is the duty of each individual, what is specified by his moral verticals, so let it mean that you should also resent those who seem to be strong, powerful, that they have a lot of money, a lot of media, a lot of political influence and show that courage. Once close to having that courage when needed, and this one not only understands Alexander Vukic, he can only share with him the vision of Serbia's happy and successful countries he deserves to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-12-0.u71150	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 1 to 7 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 4.50 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the twenty-third extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 71 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
