ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the twenty-sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 137 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of National MP Mirjana Dragas. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a session of the twenty-sixth extraordinary session in this session, called upon at the Government's request, you have been given a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda, contained in that request. For the session of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law establishing the origin of the property and the specific tax, which was lodged by the Government, 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Procedural Procedure, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Liabilities, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a law on the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil disabled war, and members of their families, submitted by the Government, 5. Proposal for a law on gambling, submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a law laying down facts on the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia, which the Government submitted, 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol to the Convention on the Agreement for the International Transport of Goods by Road (CMR), submitted by the Government, 8. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty (Programme for Climate Change Resistance and Irrigation in Serbia - Phase I) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the International Implementation of Child Support and Other Family Members, submitted by the Government, 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences submitted by the Government, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the Area of Defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India, which was submitted by the Government, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the establishment of a three-way border point between the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was submitted by the Government, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Military Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, which was submitted by the Government, 14. A bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Industry and Technology, submitted by the Government, 15. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on co-operation in the field of environmental protection, which was submitted by the Government, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the exercise of the paid activity of certain members of the family of members of diplomatic and consular offices, which was submitted by the Government, 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the conduct of paid jobs of family members in their diplomatic missions and consular representations, submitted by the Government, 18. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the Employment of Supported Persons of members of the diplomatic and consular offices, which was submitted by the Government, 19. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Control and Marking of objects of precious metals, with Annexes I and II, which the Government submitted, 20. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Other Foreign Initiative for Prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the South East European region on agreements with the host country on the Ministry of the Initiative for Prevention and preparedness in the case of disasters for the South East European region, which the Government has submitted, 21. Proposal for a law confirming the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, which was submitted by the Government, 22. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on co-operation in the area of sustainable management of cross-border waters, submitted by the Government, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Nicaragua on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports submitted by the Government, 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the area of water, which the Government submitted, 25. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the veterinary field, which was submitted by the Government, 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on the conduct of paid jobs of the supported persons of diplomatic, consular, military, administrative and technical staff of diplomatic and consular offices, which was submitted by the Government, 27. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on co-operation in the area of sustainable management of cross-border waters and plums of common interest, which the Government submitted, 28. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on co-operation in the construction, management, maintenance, reconstruction and rehabilitation of natural gas pipelines crossing the state border, submitted by the Government, 29. Proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against corruption under the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative with the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Memorandum of Understanding on Anti-Corruption Cooperation under the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative, which the Government submitted, 30. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection, submitted by the Government, 31. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Grenada on Economic Co-operation, which was submitted by the Government, 32. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on mutual recognition of qualified services from trust provided in the Republic of Serbia and certification services for electronic transactions provided in Montenegro, submitted by the Government, 33. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on trade and economic co-operation, which was submitted by the Government, 34. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica, which was submitted by the Government and 35. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of Annex No. 3 Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreements in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, which was submitted by the Government. Proposal for a merger of debates: MP Aleksandar Martinovic is, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 157, paragraphs 2 and 170. The Rules of Procedure, proposed that a common principle and uniform search of points 1 to 4 be carried out; the second joint principled single search from the 6 to 34th proposed agenda; the third segment of the remaining two points - Proposal for a law on the establishment of the status of newborn children suspected of missing from the maternity office in the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the International Implementation of Child Maintenance and Other Family Members. Ambassador, do you want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted most of the votes of this proposal. We're going to work on a certain agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government and their associates are invited to attend. In this part of the session with us will be Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law establishing the origin of property and specific tax, the draft law supplementing the Law on Complementary Procedures, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligation Relations and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against corruption within the framework of the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative with the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against Corruption under the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72090	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today there are several draft laws that are more seriously regulated by the system, above all, tax administrations, and, of course, laws that comply with existing laws with the changes made so far on bond relations and in the litigation process. Today is the first law before us – a bill establishing the origin of property and a special tax, which primarily deals with those assets which a natural person cannot prove that it has acquired in a legitimate way. For what? Of course, several of these questions are raised – which is why a special procedure is being established, i.e. a special law when examining tax assets, which deals with the tax administration, and this law is the fruit of the work of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance... They agreed on the greatest extent of how to establish a new law, because why did we resort to establishing a new law when the existing laws on the tax administration allow such property to be established, that is, to determine whether someone paid the tax and to establish its origin of the property? In this way, we establish a more efficient mechanism for determining the property of a natural person, i.e. first of all, increasing the property of a natural person and the tax measures and the property where it is made possible that a natural person within three years, at least three years in a row, has acquired an asset greater than 150 thousand euros in dinar equivalent. So, it was the measure that experts found that it was essentially the one that first came under the influence of this special law, which of course did not exclude the tax administration's obligation to determine whether or not someone paid the tax on other amounts of property, but we had more cases to show that certain persons acquire property, acquire another type of property and, of course, financial and other types of property and that they had to prove that they had acquired that property in accordance with the law. If, of course, that property is crossed, above all, the proof is two-stage, or the first tax administration has to make it likely and prove that the person has acquired more than 150.00 euros in assets within three years, and then the burden of proof is on the natural person that the property has been acquired in accordance with the law. Of course, the tax administration also has a duty if the tax inspector suspects that the property was acquired contrary to the law to file criminal charges against the D.A. and this does not exclude another procedure, so determining the criminal liability of the person who can be found to have acquired the property in an illegal manner. But in this law, we are talking about the methods of taxation of that property and we will have a rate that is then determined in this law, if the National Assembly of course decides to adopt a 75% rate and I have talked to a colleague from the Justice and Finance Ministry because it has become a difference and into thinking. There were questions - why not 100%? Why is the property not taken as a whole or as a lower degree that provides for the Tax Procedure Act, the tax law in general recognises somewhat lower tax rates? And that state has decided on this amount precisely so that we don't essentially go in terms of the rule of law and not go into legal norms that would look like confiscation of property, and on the other hand, not to go with too low rates because then it would literally look like a legalisation of property that a natural person can't prove has acquired in a legitimate way, because then why would someone even try to prove it. If the rate is lower, report that property, pay, say, a lower rate of 25% and keep 75% of the assets that there is no evidence that it was acquired in the crime scene, but you can't prove its origin. That's why the state has defined itself as a high rate of tax rate of 75% and thus sent a message to all those who acquired the property during that time period, so in three years consecutively for more than 150,000 euros, that they have the motive to obtain all the evidence that they acquired, whether it's property acquired from a job, through an account, to say what the sources of that property are and to make it legally possible. Also, this law has, of course, certain changes that will take place in the tax administration units. Special units will be created in the tax administration to determine these facts and circumstances and the head of the unit will be responsible, the government will be appointed on a proposal from the finance minister. Of course, it is also something that the government takes over in such a way part of the responsibility for establishing this property-determining system, but of course we are also establishing a firm anti-corruption mechanism, which is important for the Republic of Serbia and employees in this special department will have an obligation to keep the official secret. So there will be special regulations. They'll have to pass security checks. It won't be possible for anyone from the IRS to work in this part of the IRS. This also strengthens the competition, in addition to what is determined through a special law, in addition to the individuals who have to make them likely, i.e. they must prove that they have acquired their property, thereby stimulating the more significant tax payment of all other physical and legal entities because those who have acquired the property in other ways have not paid, so those to whom they do not refer in the first wave of this law, but have not paid taxes, other taxes that exist, will have the motive to pay their taxes, in order to settle them in time not to come under the influence of this law, because if they do not have paid other taxes, and they have property that has been acquired in excess of 150,000 euros in these three years, as I said, they will have the possibility of verifying this law. So, we have a serious anti-corruption mechanism and I think that everyone, especially when a formulation has been put in place that, I say, is borrowed, conditional on me saying, from the civil right to make the most likely form, there is no reasonable doubt or doubt, you here have the possibility that, in fact, every citizen of Serbia can come under pressure to verify property under this law, which I think is very important and of course there is a serious obligation of the tax administration to the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia which will have to monitor that it is fully fair and evenly controlled that there is no doubt that this mechanism is used in a way that is not foreseen by law. Furthermore, at the request of a special unit of the tax administration, all other state authorities will have to supply the data contained in their registers, which can help identify all facts and circumstances to facilitate the burden of proof, i.e. the process in which the tax administration determines whether a person has acquired the property, whether it is a cadastre, whether it is another body, must be made available to this special department. I expect that during the debate we are talking, there are colleagues from the ministries who have played a key role in the adoption of this law, but in fact the whole of the Government of Serbia is interested in seeing light days and there will be an effective mechanism, in addition to existing tax mechanisms in which we will be able to determine whether everything we could see that certain persons have acquired property, is often a public talk about it, sometimes those persons have acquired property in accordance with the law, sometimes not, sometimes there are criminal responsibilities, sometimes not, but now we have a more efficient tax mechanism, to determine a 75% tax, which of course does not exclude the inspector's obligation to launch, or to inform the prosecutor who will initiate the criminal proceedings if the property is acquired from the criminal act and the process of taking away the entire property, so that we have the mechanism to take away and the entire property, which is, 100% of course, that it is determined from the guilty act. Of course, there can be established despite the predicate crime and later money laundering. So there's enough ground to get this out seriously. As far as other laws are concerned, we have amendments and additions to the Law on Liabilities to which access is made in order to bring those solutions into line with the changes made in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and which are the result of the regulation of stricter forms of immovableity contracts and the introduction of public note-making activities, especially what is similar when we talk about what is necessary to do in order to make purchases of immovable property just so that both anti-corruption activities and due to the various frauds that have taken place, but also to increase the legal certainty of citizens who buy and sell immovable property, introduce a public note that will be necessary to achieve such a type of purchase. Now we have certain discrepancies that are due to some laws not being changed very long. So at this point, we have if the main contract provides for a form of public note, power, conclusion of this contract is given in the form of a publicly certified legalised document, not in the form of a public notation document, i.e. in the form of a public notary record, and thus is further facilitated by persons who are abroad to dispose of immovableities in the Republic of Serbia. They will be able to make available the immovableity to give to any authority in the foreign state who is competent to verify the signatures. They won't have to do it at extra costs. They won't have to make up the power of attorney in the form of a public record, or a public record. They won't have to address our diplomatic and consular representations in such a way as to waste extra time and money. So we are trying to bring more elements into line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the draft law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings is complemented by a member who provides for the content of the judgments brought in the litigation procedure and in order to comply with the Law on Implementation and Security and the more efficient implementation of the executive procedure. Today we also have a Memorandum of Understanding and Co-operation in the fight against corruption under the South East European Anti-corruption Initiative with the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Memorandum of Understanding and Co-operation in the fight against corruption under the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative. This is another mechanism that is one of the most efficient mechanisms in Southeast Europe. In addition to those existing within the EU, this mechanism will help the Republic of Serbia have even more effective international co-operation in anti-corruption. So, in addition to what the Republic of Serbia is doing in co-operation with other international institutions, what the prosecution and police are doing above all, this is one of the mechanisms that facilitates the operation, anti-corruption action and that facilitates the co-operation of state authorities in this. In that sense, the regional anti-corruption initiatives that have been emerging in our country have produced results so far and of course there is still space. I believe that there is room for tighter integration, primarily by exchanging data on the potential corruption of certain individuals, who are trying to hide their corrupt activities by operating outside the borders of the country of origin. This is why this type of association and this kind of development of co-operation is important and will produce results and will also be visible through the functioning of our national authorities. That's what's ahead of us today on the agenda. We will have other regulations that will be in front of the National Assembly during the week. All members of the government are authorized, so we expect a dynamic debate, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72091	Thank you. First registered speaker, Vojislav Seselj. Here you go. Do the reporters, perhaps, apologize, the committees in charge want a word? (No) The word of the messenger of the people is Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if you'd laugh, if you'd be surprised if you'd be terrified of this bill. This is an unlawful and foolish text of a legal project that cannot survive in our legal system and must fall in the Constitutional Court. It's not the first time you've passed a law like this. We remember a bank robbery regime that took over power in late 2000 and early 2001. They were so greedy, they didn't need laws. They set out to kidnap rich people full of their biscuits and led by the mafia was Zoran Djindjic himself. There is the kidnapping of Stefan Zivojinovic, Miroslav Miskovic, Baja blue and even more people. When Bogoljub Karic, Zoran Djindjic, was detained, he may have just invited him, so he came himself, and Djindjic personally asked him for a 200m-euro racket. Godly love, according to my sources, shrugged his shoulders and said that he didn't have that kind of money or that he couldn't have it in cash in due time. When Djindjic saw that he had exhausted the possibilities of kidnapping and that more doubts were moving towards him, he remembered the Law on Taxation of Extra Profit, and the law was again valid with the "BK" company. They were kidnapped by 90 million at least in one drink, and then kidnapped by the entire "Mobtel", Djindjic's closest associates when Djindjic had already gone in an unknown direction from the Serbian political scene. So they were the same as Djindjic. Who did the Extra Profit Act apply to? There were several radicals, some of whom I personally had to pay that tax. Thank God, in those years in 2001, 2002, I appeared as an oil dealer on the world market, nothing in Serbia, I had a certain quota to take over from the Iraqi quota under the Security Council's approval, with the gratitude of the Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq, Tariq Aziz, I was reselling oil on the world market. I paid taxes on extra profits to Tomislav Nikolic, Dragan Todorovic, Aleksandr Vukic and others. I'm not a man who spends a lot, I don't like luxury. You know, they say I'm driving a jeep now, and I'm ready to prove to the minister that it was given to me by Aunt Mukelef of Pakistan, who is the largest pig manufacturer there. There are a large number of pig farms and several million a year to deliver the market, and besides, countless pigs. If the minister doesn't believe me, then I'll say that the money is loaned to me personally by Branko Stefanovic, since he's had a lot of profits by stealing Krusik. In order for this law to be passed, you must first start from your people. First of Tomislav Nikolic, so ask him why the church in Bajcetina, where did the property in Bajcetina come from, where did these two houses come from in a strictly banned belt near the Sava River and how did it spend more than five million euros, stealing money and its own Dragica Nikolic Foundation? So when you do that, then ask this Zorana Mihajlović nicely, her closest associates here go to prisons, and then they let them go on a shortcut, and she organizes their welcome, but no one else can wait for her. So, on whom the ban is placed by the American embassy, you're not allowed to touch. Next, there's Zlatibor Lonchar. The President himself, Alexander Vucic, recently said that 20% of the total budget goes to the needs of health insurance, and where all that money goes and how it is stolen through material purchases, is another story that the MUP has not yet been able to fit in. I am sure that Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic has graduated from some real college, not legal, but real. where he sits in the amphitheater, where they listen to lectures, to study textbook literature. If he had passed his exams, he wouldn't have thought of representing a law like this in the National Assembly. There's one of our people's sayings, it's a little more scrawny, but I hope the president of the National Assembly doesn't mind me saying it here. It's not very rude, it's just a little bit, do you allow Mrs. Gojkovic? (President: I can't let you if she's rude. Just no swearing. It's not too much, you'll see. Our people say, when they sacrifice someone like Nebojsa Stefanovic and send him to represent something indisputable in the Assembly, where a storm is coming from all over the country, he says -- he sends him to a naked ass among the drunk Turks. It's not very rude, don't get mad, I hope. But it's so convenient, so applicable here, because he's being sent here by a poor man, and he doesn't know what he's dealing with. He doesn't understand this, but this will fall in the Constitutional Court. So you're going to have to first, if you apply this law, start with your people and you're going to brake there. And Djindjic stalled the application of the Extraprofit Act as soon as he robbed so few individuals, did hundreds of people have to pay at all? Maybe Dragomir Karic remembers that. I don't think there was a hundred. And then they forgot about that law, like they forgot about the lustration law. It occurred to them that they could get rid of the unfortunate people from the political scene and the Lustration Act. So they threw out all of Kostunica's MPs from the National Assembly on their own free will, so they had to return them to the intervention of some foreign factors. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our tax laws fall under modern tax laws. They were quite modern at times of communism and according to our tax laws, there's tax ejaculation, it's avoiding tax pay. You lawyers should know that, did you study finance, did you come from the state college, what are you looking at me so palely? You can't defend a minister that easily. By law, it's always been since I remember... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72093	Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72094	Our law, today, requires that tax obligations become obsolete within five years. All tax obligations. That's under Article 144z. Article 144z stipulates that the limitation of the tax administration's right to alienation and tax collection does not run during the start of the administrative dispute, during the time when another law stipulates that tax transactions cannot be started even when payment is delayed. However, the right to pay the tax liability always goes out of date within 10 years of the end of the year in which the tax was due. You can't charge an unpaid 2010 tax today. Yeah, well, you can put it in the trunk, see, I've got a big trunk now on the jeep, you put a man in the trunk and you charge him what you want. I don't have any assets, except for some money they seized from me in America and Australia, but I have a collection of pretty books worth 10,000 books, and I have a very expensive philatelic collection. Here, if people ask me where I got it, how I got it, I'll say - the money gave me Danko Stefanovic to buy it. Let's further prove it, we'll prosecute it whether or not it is. Anyway, I'm not going to fall for the hollow stories in the courtroom, I'm going to be looking for hollows in the system, in the government, among ministers and those surrounding ministers, safe. Of course, this law wasn't passed because of me. I haven't even had a desert debate since my dead mother died 13 years ago, and who knows when we're going to be having a good time, since neither my sister nor I is in a hurry. But I fight here to preserve the legal order, and in order for the legal order to be preserved, this law must not be passed. It must, therefore, be withdrawn from the procedure or it must be brought down by the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court acts as in Djindjic's time, I myself went to represent the applicants' demands before the Constitutional Court at a session of then the Federal Constitutional Court and the Federation Palace, so they hohstuplers Dejan Popovic and Vesna Rakic Rodinlic represented the law. That's what the lawyers were like at our law school, and they still thought they were among the best lawyers. Well, that's why you didn't have much to learn from either of you who graduated from serious college. Well, in Hyde Park, perhaps Minister Stefanovic could have finished something, and the most beautiful study in front of the Sava Centre is. I'm getting ready when it's spring to go write something in front of Sava Centro, and I'm interested in musicology and this solo singing, as it's called, Natasha you understand, so I'd like to master it too. I can just get a solo singing degree. Although it is generally known that I have no hearing at all. What exactly is it necessary to do? We had a lot of robberies and embezzlements. We need to go after those who can prove it, the biggest criminals. Look out, this year there are a lot of crimes committed after "5. October’. If you don't file criminal charges in time, and you don't seem to be doing anything about it, you can also get Mladjan Dinkic, who automatically took over the National Bank of Yugoslavia, who, along with Labus, stole huge amounts of state gold, stole some deposits from Cyprus. You will also miss Bozidar Djelic and that Aleksandar Vlahovic and many others. You're not doing anything about it. You're passing a law like this and you're saying here that they're going to be questioned, as they say, by security checks that people who are taking part in this will be carried out. Well, you weren't prepared to carry out a security check either for the chairman of the Assembly Security Control Committee. What security clearance could an Igor Becic go through, charged with crime, a fake degree, and what else do I know? He's your chairman of the board. Why did you give up investigating the murder of Zoran Djindjic? I personally do not regret a bit of Djindjic, but I believe it is in Serbia's interest to examine the circumstances of his murder until the end. You know that Dusan Mihajlovic, Nebojsa Covic, Cedomir Jovanovic and others gave orders to police chiefs, the chief police chief was then Rodoljub Milovic, called General Papaja, to kill Dusan Spasojevic and Mile Lukovic Kum, who were previously arrested, beaten, heard, told many things, and there was a great danger for the regime that they would appear in the courtroom and were therefore liquidated. You all know it better than I do, especially the minister of police, and you're not doing anything. These former regime criminals are under your protection. You've got a lot of protection left. You have some interest in protecting them or being afraid to approach them or being afraid when the government changes again that you will come under attack and therefore avoid them. So you'd be here to chase some smaller fish, to find, catch a man and ask, where did you get these 150,000 euros? You know what our culture is, what civilization circle we belong to. It is quite common for us that relatives who work abroad present certain amounts of money to relatives in the country. It's not even a receipt, it's not going to do anything, and they're trying to develop some work here. You can only start from the smallest or arrest some you think are big fish, if they haven't committed crimes in Serbia at all, that only their property would be robbed. This was done by Boris Tadic before you, and you inherited such phenomena. You didn't stop them, you didn't reveal what was taken that way. What would I do as the best living Serbian lawyer, what would the SRS do if it were lucky in power? We'd do something of what the communists did. When the state needed an investment, when Tito no longer received any help from the Americans, when the loans became expensive, and he continued to be in debt, the regime came to the sense that he was freeing citizens from the opening of savings deposits, savings books and any citizen who would come into the bank with any amount of money, laid down on a savings book under his name, no longer had the need to prove his background. That was a smart move. That's when the money went up to the sky. After that, Ante Markovic, along with Slovenians and Croats, robbed it, is now another matter of objective conditions under which it was. Now it would be best to invite all citizens of Serbia and all Serbs, no matter where they live in the world, to bring their savings to the Postage Savings, it's the only bank with 100% state capital as far as I know, there may be others. So we're going where the banker won't say they're bound by other states from which there's one part of the capital in the bank, Switzerland, Austria, Germany and what I know. Well, they come one day, they put it in their account, they take it the next day, and they can invest wherever they want. We have the right to do this to our citizens, to our citizens, and to all Serbs. It would be a kind of general amnesty in terms of how to make money. If you think you're kidnapping, then there's going to be a huge outflow of money. He's running out of capital abroad. Marks and Engels found out there was no nation's capital, he's gone. What makes you wonder why he's calling on Marks and Engels? Well, she reads books nice. I've read their pieces, and it's helped me a lot. (Marian Risticevic: And let him write.) Come on and write something, Marian. I expect you to be more successful than many ministers in that field, so it wouldn't be bad for you to look at yourself in writing. Let me get on with what I have to say. So, first big money's gonna get out of the country. Secondly, when you start kidnapping houses and apartments, they're going to drop value on the market. You won't have anyone to sell them to. Will you assign as the communists assigned to their generals and ministers of other people's houses and dwellings, and then they redeemed them for the bogeyman? Now you want to settle the old owners and you're headed that way and you've already done a lot of wonders. To be clear, I'm not against the return of property to religious communities, especially that of a sacral character. I'm not against the return of some poor girl to some bar, some other place, a store, a certain amount of agricultural land, etc. But you've begun to return houses of millions of value to people who aren't in the right line of heirs, but somewhere on the side.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72095	You've wasted your time. Vojislav Seselj: I didn't. This is 12 minutes. Yeah, and eight before the break-up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72096	I had something important to say, Maya, but that's if you don't give it to me. So the bottom line is that you now have three billion dollars to pay off in money to former owners, and assuming that they came fairly to that property. You say, "These are not fair now, but those who were living in the Serb army, so they delivered flour with sand, and they made a fair profit." Don't, people, make fun of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72097	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72098	Ladies and gentlemen, not going into the intentions of the government at the time when it was passed the Extraprofit Act, because different conclusions can be carried out, especially because it was very selectively applied and not long enough and only one part of the person was covered by this law. Literally, it can sometimes be debated whether it was designed to target opponents of the then government, especially considering the date of adoption, so when it was brought in. It was brought directly upon the post of the then government, which applied it only to its political opponents. This law is his absolute opposite. As a crackdown, the Constitutional Court twice advertised the Extraprofit Act, and both times found the law to be constitutional, so no one was able to bring down the importance of the law, regardless of its huge shortcomings. The Constitutional Court then made a decision in its councils concerning both property and today, which is that the property of a natural person is something that the physical person is using today. Did he acquire the property of two thousand and some, ninety-one and some, etc., he is a pleasure of property today. Not paying taxes at the time does not mean that this property cannot be taxed in accordance with the law of today. There's no statute of limitations in that sense. It is the view of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. As far as this law is concerned, he's very clear. He wants to check everyone. I hope that it will be the blow of those who have multimillion-dollar assets, so not those who have 150,000 euros, 150,000 euros is a minimum within three years, where you have made it likely that someone has acquired that property. Whether these are bank deposits, whether they're real estate, whether they're vehicles, vessels, some other kind of property, mostly there are people who have a much larger property than 150,000 euros and of course they didn't all get it illegally, there are people who've acquired it legally, legally paid taxes and there are people who haven't done it. This law also seriously introduces financial discipline, but it also has a serious anti-corruption character, so it warns all those who acquired the property in a way that they cannot prove its origin, that they will have to pay taxes on it. After all, we have had a situation that this power brings, I think we may have been late, in the sense that we could have done it before, but anyway, at the moment it's being brought, we've been in power for a certain time, and all those who participated in this government or during the course of this government's power have acquired certain assets will also be under attack. So this isn't just about those who are up until then or I don't know what. Secondly, this has nothing to do with one government, each of the next governments, every government will be able to use mechanisms, or the Tax Administration will be able to use these mechanisms to check every physical person in this country. I don't agree with the mechanism that we could now open banks to pay any money in them without reporting our assets and in such a way legalizing money laundering that would happen, because any drug dealer today would come and pay his money into the bank and so legalize the property he acquired in such a way or any other criminal way. That would give us more money in banks, but in fact, we would allow anyone with illegal money to legalize it. On the other hand, abroad you know that every amount of more than 10,000 euros is under a shovel, in most countries you cannot enter into the country in any way more than 10,000 euros without giving confirmation of the origin of that money. Do the same in your country. You can go to any bank if you have the origin of the money and you have the deposit any, if you have how you earned that money. It's a very important law. This law will allow us in a serious formal and essential way to do one control so that we do not have news headlines where he says – he has acquired so many millions. To first determine the prosecutor, i.e. the Tax Administration, whether that money and property was acquired. If it is acquired, whether it has been obtained legally, or whether a tax has been paid on it, and then, of course, the prosecutor to determine whether it has been obtained from a criminal offence. Is this going to go fast and will we make it in two weeks? Of course not. Of course it'll take time to do that, but it's important to start, that there's a strong will to check how whoever acquired their property, to see if he's paid the tax, and that's where they'll apply equally to every man in this country. So it is very important that there is a rule of law that says that anyone can come under the control of this kind of tax administration, the prosecution, other state authorities, and it is important that this law establishes another line of planting of all state authorities that can determine the origin of your property in the service of the Tax Administration, or the special division of the Tax Administration that will deal with this business and that this whole job will work. The finance ministry, i.e. the Tax Administration, will be the country's leading institution that will in fact determine how the money was obtained. We will, I'm sure, in this way in the next year or two days see both side effects, so the collateral effects of tax collection that are unrelated only to this law and in such a way, in a serious way to correct fiscal discipline and in our natural persons, but of course to economic operators. A very important law and I believe that it will give good results that will not only improve tax collection in the Republic of Serbia, but which will make people who have acquired their money legally, legitimately, paying taxes not only say to themselves that they have been manipulated and cheated, and that they are even with those people who have in a criminal way or any other deceitful way acquired wealth, did not pay taxes, and then we say – okay, you are exactly the same with these people who have acquired their money legally and legitimately. It's very important to establish. I am convinced that this National Assembly will support the day of voting for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72099	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72100	Thank you. We are now, when I say we – state, in various ways to get to foreign investors. There was a lot of success, but there were a lot of moves that cost us dearly. We have a fact, for example, that some foreign factories have cost us huge amounts in the name of donations that the state has given, the government has paid by employee or given money or written off contributions to salaries or taxes on salaries. Rauh juices, for example, 73,000 euros per employee. "Tiger" 60,000 euros per employee. "Falke", is called "Falke", her, we had Dr. Mengela, her name was Falke, in the Netherlands, 35,500 euros, "Lir", there are also "Fiat", there are some other companies. Many economists agree in the assessment that Serbia currently lacks domestic investment, and our people with money, I don't get into how they got the money, because I suspect anyone who made the first million dollars for his life, that he couldn't make a fair profit. There is a proverb in the Anglo-Saxon world – don't just ask me how I got to the first million. Therefore, the initial accumulation of capital has always meant both crime and exploitation of the working class, etc. If we allow our people to invest, to enter with money without fear of being kidnapped, because they have no proof of origin, then we won't need these foreign companies that will further blackmail us.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72101	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go. Once again, I apologize to Elvira Kovac, and I ask you to act more quickly. Please, but sign into the system so I can give you my word. The word has Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72102	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure have been injured here, because a lie which has already been made public several times. Mr. Seselj said that Rauh factory juices per worker received 70 and some thousand donations from the state, which is not true. I have denied it here and in the Assembly, when it was a question from Mr. Chevarlic, the president of the state denied it publicly. There's a contract that says the worker received 3,000 euros. Please don't mess with one of the wrong facts, because of the public and the truth. Rauh is a very good and correct company operating in this country. Thank you. [[Vojislav Seselj: How about a short replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72103	Thank you. It's impossible on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Vojislav Seselj: Then how did the public get information on 70,000 euros? ) The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72104	Thank you. The Honorable Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Ministers with Associates, dear colleagues, as the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, in my presentation, I will rely exclusively on the proposal for a law establishing the origin of property and a special tax. In fact, I think we've talked a little bit so far about this law in question that in the public, political and social life of the Republic of Serbia he's really been announced and it's been talking about him for a very long time, if I may say so, for almost two decades, but nothing really happened. So it's a good thing we finally have this legal text in front of us. I must stress that he has actually been in the congregation procedure for almost two months, actually arrived at the end of December. What is significant and what the Honorable Mr. Minister said was that the proposed solutions really refer to all citizens and what is certain is that there will be no selective application of this law, because those who criticise it most often speak of the possibility of being selectively applied. As I mentioned, the passing of this law, the concrete solutions, so this is a long wait. We of the Vojvodjanski Hungarian Parliament Group believe that this proposal is good, that solutions are clear, precise, that a special 75% tax is proposed, means that it is a strict enough proposal. Only the issue of law enforcement, which is most important, is how it will be applied in practice, because if it really applies to every citizen and there is no problem in application, then we can say that this law is just and that it really strengthens the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. What is also significant is that it should bring significant funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course, when we talk about the concrete application of certain solutions, we are also aware that, and that the minister mentioned briefly, it takes time to prepare, establish a system, actually, and a legal basis for full application. It will take time for the tax administration to establish the competent sector. Of course, it will take time to educate the staff, the workers, the judges who will decide on these issues. I would like to stress that taxation of property whose origin cannot be proven to be legitimate incomes is actually a very good tool in the fight against corruption, so one of the effective ways. This bill establishes a mechanism that allows property acquired and corrupt activities to fall under special taxation regimes. What I would like from the point of view of European integration is two things. First of all, in the integral part of this bill, we are behind the reasoning that every time we have a declaration of compliance with EU law and in this proposal, it says that the adoption of this law is not actually envisaged by the SAA, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, nor by the National Programme for the adoption of EU legal fluids, so to speak. NPAA 2014-2018 I have to point out that there was an oversight here because this is an old version of the NPAA from 2014 to 2018. In early 2018, a third, revised version of this NPAA was delivered in February, for the period from 2018 to 2021, when the Ministry of European Integration committed itself to quarterly reporting to the government on the implementation of the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows. So there's a new, third, revised national programme and it's even being considered after the election of a possible fourth revised, so the one mentioned here is no longer valid. What is also significant, to respond to criticism that as far as this bill is concerned, there was a public debate. The public debate was between 8 and 29 March 2019, and during this public debate the most criticism was about the period of determination of assets and special taxes, as it was said that the process of determining the property of the special tax was to refer to the period from 1 January 2007. It was actually a plan in the plan at the time, and good luck, so after the criticism, the Working Group decided to leave this part out of the proposal. So, to clarify that there is actually no time limit for the application of this law and the above-critic provision is lagging behind in the draft law that we are discussing. What we also said in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, in fact in 2002, exists in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, this law introduced a method of cross-checking of assets that inspectors should establish extraordinary compensation for unreported incomes and some say that this is actually enough for the adoption of this law that we are discussing today to be unnecessary, but we think it is still significant. The tax rate under this said Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is only 20% on unreported income and this new law could illegally tax property, as we have said, at an extremely high rate of 75%, since it will be charged on property whose origins cannot be proven. Since I have already mentioned European integration and our path to the EU, I think it is important that we also talk about the annual report so-called. Progress Report, which the European Commission prepares each year. The last annual report is from 2019. I mention this because the law is passed in the context of the fight against corruption, and in the latest annual report to the Republic of Serbia, the European Commission said, among other things, that corruption prevails in many areas and remains a concern issue, to quote the report. The Commission also cited the need for strong political will to effectively address the issue of corruption, as well as for Serbia to urgently improve results in the detection and prosecution of corruption. We therefore find it extremely important that the adoption of such a law is demonstrated by this political will, which due to the possible lack of it, we are criticised, so that we are also fulfilling some of the recommendations of the Report. As pointed out here, I think it should be clarified that for undeclared assets or revenues, regardless of whether they are acquired legally or illegally, it is envisaged that this extremely high tax rate, a special tax, but it is important to clarify that, if someone is found to have illegally acquired property and paid a 75% tax, the question is whether he is then forgiven for these remaining 25%, it is not so after the tax administration finds out, such a person is taxing at this rate. The case is delivered, as mentioned, to the public prosecutor, who is investigating whether there is in the acquisition of the undeclared property of the elements of the crime. If it proves that there are, of course, 25% of the remaining untaxed incomes, that person will be taken away and not left behind. I think we talked a little bit about that, so it was said that the tax administration is the one who handles first-degree proceedings, the appeal is being made to the Ministry of Finance, as a second-degree body, and as a third-degree, the appeal is planned to the Administrative Court. To slowly conclude as I started this exhibition, an initiative to pass property origin law in Serbia was first launched nearly two decades ago, exactly 18 years ago. The aim of passing this law is actually a better tax charge, that people actually report their real incomes, salaries, to pay the state taxes, to settle their obligations normally and to ensure the state's tax revenues that they belong to. But what I mentioned and what's most important is that we talk about this topic, it doesn't end with the law, it ends with its very important application. The training of tax inspectors, taxpayers, as well as their equipment is very important. So if there is the capacity for these people's motivation, we hope that this law will be applied in an adequate way. This issue is important because in a period of transition, a small number of people have become rich, it is extremely important that, by applying these proposed solutions in the future, a mechanism is created to determine whether they have been made legal or illegal. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians certainly supports the adoption of this law and we will vote in favour of it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72105	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72106	The law is not big, it has only 29 members, but is very important for Serbia. Significant, because this law will correct many injustices and Serbia's state will be included in the order of countries where tax payments are respected, where work and efforts are respected that only by work and pawnage can reach great assets. You know, one of the basic objectives of each country is an effective tax system. The abuse of the tax system exists everywhere, not only in Serbia but in all countries and everyone is trying to find a way to avoid paying taxes. However, if the state is regulated, if the rules of conduct are known, if certain standards are respected, then the possibility of avoiding paying taxes is minimal. It's no accident that there are tax returns, a policy where individuals who want to make money in their own country, where they create, don't pay taxes on their place of residence, report to these tax havens, and that's an opportunity to avoid paying. There is, of course, illegal property acquired. I'm stressing, since here, in the debate, he wants to stress that the property will be kidnapped, no. There's talk of illegally acquired assets and the possibility that these assets are legalized through tax payments, that one day we stop talking, that someone has arrived at large assets in an illegal way and we keep pulling that line and we keep stressing, yes, many have become rich. The need for this law has become much earlier. You know, we can talk whatever we want, but by 1990, we had a state that had its own laws and those laws were respected and, of course, the tax was paid. However, it came in 1990 and later in 2000, where we can speak exactly how and how the full tax ejaculation took place, or how individuals began to become suddenly rich. I won't talk about the causes. The causes of this illegal wealth are privatisation, which we can call what we want, but most of it was robbery privatisation, not the functioning of the state, and I have to say that there are still two stages in the decomposition of our society. The first phase was 1990 to 2000. The privatisation started, but she also had social elements. The division of shares to 60% of employees, and you know for yourself that individuals who worked in good companies, the Beochin cement factory, the Apatian brewery, really got valuable shares, and really those people went well. There was a purchase of apartments, the truth at the beginning with a lot of real values, and later in inflation and hyperinflation, the buyout was below all market values. There was inflation, hyper inflation, and of course, individuals who were closer to the authorities, closer to primary emissions, they were very privileged and there was enormous wealth. But these people at the time, there was much less, that distribution, that social dimension really came to terms, and there were individuals, one large number of people came up with some property. Of course, there's another stage. That second stage is, I can call it a robbery privatisation. The explosion that came under the company of democracy and privatisation, then some who came from the West, who were educated who knows what universities, spoke, privatisation at all costs, no criteria, and a way to privatise everything and come into private hands, and then the country of Serbia will flourish. That's exactly when there was a big decomposition. Four hundred thousand lost their jobs, without their salaries and came at a difficult time, have poverty, and many of these people have not recovered today. There's been a suck-up of social and state capital in the pockets of privileged individuals. You know, that's the second stage, the stage that we've all been aware of, but the longer that stage lasted, then you could see the houses being built on Dedinj and all the other attractive locations, where expensive cars are being driven, where big yachts are being bought, etc. Such facts and such individuals require this law and therefore the SDPS will support this law, because we believe this will bring one great opportunity for this society to become socially responsible somewhere. The basis of this law is that it applies equally to all citizens. So there are no privileged ones. It is often said in public that politicians are the ones who are enormously rich. That's not true. I come from the point of view that anyone who deals with politics... And I do politics myself, believe me, for this time, my property has not been increased. On the contrary, it is reduced and all here, most of us sitting in this room, and the facts are very well aware, but you can't break that illusion in individuals. That's why I'm betting there are no privileged ones, to start with every single person who has property. which is disproportionate to the income it has. Those determinations are disproportionate between income and property, I have to stress, they can't be arbitrary. There must be standards, principles, rules. This can't be a campaign, it can't be a witch hunt, which we had most of the time during an earlier period. You remember earlier, you got a house, you got an apartment back, or there's already been some extra profit talk here. There can't be a campaign. This cannot be short-lived, must be long-term and must be continued, but with clear principles and standards with professional leadership and impartiality. Let me tell you something else, we don't find hot water in Serbia. In all the regulated states, in all the organized societies and how there is strong tax control. You can't hide a dollar, you can't hide a dollar, you can't hide the euro if you've illegally earned it, you can't hide it by corrupting, you can't tell criminal activities, and that's why we're trying, and I think this process that we're going to go into is due to continuity and seriousness. Everyone promised this law, but no one brought it. I think the state of Serbia is ready right now, that it has the capacity and capacity to implement this law. That's how we're going to become a socially organized state, and that's what we want. And not only that, we join the countries of Europe here. We are a candidate for EU entry and this law is the one that brings us closer to these regulated European societies. Yes, we had the courage and we have the courage to pass this law. Serbian citizens see it and they know it. I stress again that it cannot be considered that someone's property will be kidnapped. It's said and the point of the law is illegally acquired property. I stress, illegally acquired property. Serious professional services of the tax administration, which we will form, people who will be quality and know everything that needs to be done in this business, I'm sure they won't make mistakes. That's why there are more phase procedures, and that's why we support this law. One more thing, the SDPS, in favour of this law, we do not advocate being equal in poverty, we advocate that there are also rich people in this country, but those people who have come to this wealth by their work, by their ability, by their knowledge and smart management of their capital. You know, there's a big difference between having and not having. We Social Democrats know that best. Well, you do, but in a fair way, by your work, with respect to the law, it's that motive that we, the Social Democrats, but also all honest politicians, are just making us do this job that we do. What I want to point out further is, you know, in regulated countries you have two things that are undeniable, and that's death and tax pay. So it is incomprehensible in regulated countries that tax cannot be paid. With us in Serbia, it became a rule of conduct - to cheat the state, to acquire property, because the state is everyone's and nobody's. No, the state protects itself by paying taxes, because we pay taxes for everything else, and health care and schooling. If we are in favour of free health care, arranged roads, highways, this country can only be out of its revenues, and the basic income of a country is tax. If that tax is regularly paid, then that's what our basic task is. I stress that we will ally support this law, but also, please, let's not be divorcing in discussions, looking for the faults that they're going to say, yes, there will be many mistakes. We are fighting to go to a consistent law, a law that is likely to be improved in the coming period, but it is also far more important to create teams within the tax administration in this special unit that will professionally, quality work, and thus we will be in a position to have results. You know, it's not just about the fact that the state has money. It is far more important that this social component, a component where every citizen will say - that in this country, Serbia, property, large property can no longer be obtained in an illegal manner, without respect for the law and without paying taxes. That's why the SDPS will all-out support this bill and we'll vote for it in the voting day. We will talk about some issues in particular, but we support this law globally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72107	Thank you, Professor. Mijatovic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word is Mr. Nejo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72108	I thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished representatives of the Justice Ministry, the SPS parliamentary group will support a set of laws we are discussing today in the voting day. What certainly attracts the greatest attention and the strongest of the proposed laws on which we conduct the debate is undoubtedly the Law on the Origin of Assets and Taxation of illegally acquired property. Here is the question that you, the distinguished ministers, asked at the very beginning in the opening statement, was it necessary to pass a special law in the light of the provisions of the laws already in force? In particular, the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act has or contains provisions which regulate precisely the matter covered by the proposed Property Origin Act and the taxation of illegally acquired assets. In particular, in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, there is so-called “cross-examination” of assets and there is an institute so-called “cross-examination”. "extraordinary tax" on unreported incomes, but it is at a tax rate of 20%, unlike the proposal for a law where the tax rate of 75% is proposed. So, the question arises – should we intervene in the existing law, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and there standardise all this which should be the subject of our debate or bring about a whole new law that will, in a precise, clear, practically applicable way, regulate the complete matter that is related to the determination of so-called. ‘excess property’ which has not been obtained legally? We Socialists believe that there really should be one special law, and we support that such a law is proposed for the simple reason that in the existing Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration we would have a situation of unnecessary normation, unnecessary provisions, confusing, inaccurate, vague and so forth, and in any case, we have something here that is at least one sort of a step or an initial step to fight ultimately, in principle and consistently the greatest monster in the world, which is corruption. And to be honest, there's no country on the globe, there's no state on this planet that has no corruption, it's just a question of how corruption is, and there's no state that's immune from corruption. What is important for Serbia and what our government is implementing is the goal of having a zero degree of tolerance on corruption from one side, and on the other hand that in some kind of synergy of all factors and normatively and practically combating corruption, we are suppressing it to the least possible extent and, if possible, is the ideal in some way that we eliminate it in general. That is why this law as an anti-corruption law aims to reduce corrupt activities. Among other things, critics of this law pointed out various dilemmas, convictions to even draft laws, and before entering the assembly procedure, it is therefore suspected that the manager of a special unit of tax administration that will manage the process of establishing illegally acquired assets has the possibility to adopt guidelines, to gain insight into the data of each of us present and thus to carry out certain types of abuse. Why? Because it is being appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and because critics of such a legal act view it as opening up space to eventually prosecute those who are politically inadequate. We in the SPS parliamentary group reject this view as populist from the point of view of political marketing, because a simple question is asked – who else can ask or appoint a special unit manager of the tax administration other than the Government? Why? So because the tax administration is part of a system of state or state apparatus. Well, he won't be set up by some citizen association or I don't know who. So we have a situation where there's subordination and hierarchy and there's an orderly management system. The tax administration is also in that system. The tax administration is subject to an appropriate system of organisation, which includes setting up certain officials, managers, and even other personnel structures, and excluded by the Government, because no one else can. What I think is important to point out, Your Honor, is that this law has indeed made some kind of progress when it comes to the excessive burden of proving an increase in property. The burden of proving the increase in assets correctly is on the tax administration. It can't be on Peri Peric, or Mark Mark Markovic, any physical person. So the burden of proving so-called proof. “excess assets” and that part of the assets that will later be determined to have been illegally acquired is exclusively in the tax administration. It is logical that the tax administration has mechanisms to determine the so-called tax administration. "excess of assets", but on the other hand, the burden of proof of acquisition or origin of property is undoubtedly and should undoubtedly be on every natural person as a taxpayer, and we support it unreservedly. As regards the right of access to public books and registers for data collection, which depends on increasing property, i.e. establishing an increase in property, there is, to be honest, a little bit sensitive in the light of the fact that it is affecting data protected in accordance with the personal data protection regulations. I think it may have been possible, dear ministers, to make additional norms in the bill, where not only will it be said by a special law, but by the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, to make sure that these particulars are used with extreme caution, that these data must remain in the discretion zone and that these data can only be available in a procedure which determines on the one hand the excess property, on the other hand, the illegal acquisition of that excess property. Perhaps the committee amendment could fix that because the quality of the law in this sense would undoubtedly be better. As regards the very initiation of the procedure, it is good that it is initiated under official duty, exofication, but is also allowed to be initiated on the basis of the application of any natural person who indicates that anyone has excess property and that there is a reasonable doubt that this surplus property is not acquired under the law. So, we have some kind of legal security structure that, on the one hand, is achieved by initiating proceedings under official duty, and on the other hand, the possibility that each of us, since we have both a civil obligation and a constitutional obligation and a moral obligation, to fight together with a state apparatus against corruption, to indicate that this corruptive action exists and to say clearly and loudly where there is, or who has sinned against the law and who illegally acquired the property. As for the censorship, or the amount of the value of the property of 150 000 euros and the three-year term, of course it can be discussed, of course, that it can be sufficiently disputed whether this amount should have been lower, whether it should have been higher, but we Socialists believe it is important that we have raised this issue, that this censorship is now in the stage of some practical verification after the application of this law, because this law will take effect within eight days of the day of publication in the Official Messenger, but will apply after the year from that deadline. So, during that period of one year, we have an obligation to implement this law, namely to make preparations, so that this law is practically implemented in the best possible way, and on the other hand, when we start to apply it, we will see to what extent these provisions can be observed both critically and not critically, how realistically they are in practice, or how effective this law will be. Now we're coming to a respected minister, a member that I think may be controversial in practical application, so I'm going to ask you to consider, possibly, that this member of the proposed law might change. It is the proposal of Article 14(3) of this Act, which states that non-participation in the party's proceedings does not delay the duration of the proceedings, i.e. it does not delay the actions taken during the proceedings. I'm not sure this general norm is good, because it is necessary to make sure that this party's non-participation is justified or unwarranted. If it is justified and if the party justifies its non-participation by the fact that it was health-free, that it has objective reasons why it did not approach it, that it had anything to do with the problem, but objective nature, which makes it impossible for it to participate in the procedure, then there is no reason to take action at its expense and to continue the procedure. On the contrary, in that case it needs that legal action or any other action that is being delayed, so when it is ready to approach and when it is able to take whatever is in favour of protecting its interests, then, of course, it is possible. In light of the bill, however, the proponent tried to explain this, but the norm remained as it is. In the practical application of such a norm, given that it is a broad spectrum of interpretation, it can cause unequal court practice and lead parties to a problem, and this problem implies that the party suffers damage that it should not suffer because some of the actions are taken without its presence. Furthermore, what is good is that you have properly regulated the question of two-stage decision-making, the possibility of making an appeal, that the appeal delays the implementation of the first-degree solution, therefore, has a suspension fact, it is a very good solution and, of course, that an administrative dispute can be conducted against the final solution in the administrative procedure. Now, what's very important here is to point out that it seems to me that this law has in some way brought into question the provisions of the Criminal Code, not in doubt the provisions of the Criminal Code, but that we may have come to a situation that we have even a little bit of a derivation of the Criminal Code. There is a provision that states that in the event of a criminal offence and in the event that a criminal offence is committed, the illegal property benefit, and then the tax is paid, that this property benefit is included in the amount of the tax paid under this law. And that's not controversial, that's a good solution, but why isn't it regulated in the Criminal Code? Why did we not approach the amendment of the Criminal Code provisions to have a situation that we should avoid, which is that this law appears as a lex specialis in relation to the Criminal Law? So, I'm not sure that legally technically this is well solved, given that we have that so-called. The Institute of lex specialis derogat lies generals, and this law should not derivate the Criminal Code as a general code. In this regard, the highly well-intentioned suggestion of the SPS parliamentary group to consider accession, to approach amendments and additions to the Criminal Code because of the fact that we amendments in this regard were unable to respond, given that we would go beyond the scope of the legislative amendments, i.e. the proposed law. Furthermore, what's good, and that's a good thing what the Justice Committee did, I suppose, frankly, on your proposal, that mandatory security checks must be introduced for all persons who are conducting proceedings against all those who have either a reasonable suspicion or a likelihood or evidence that they have acquired property in an illegal manner. Why am I saying this? Because the credibility of those who will act against anyone who has sinned against the law, who has acted corruptly, who has acquired some property on the basis of corrupt treatment, that it is precisely those persons who are in charge of the procedure that must have absolute credibility, which means that security checks on such persons must be absolutely comprehensive and from the point of view of the conduct of the MUP, whose leaders and the inhabitants of the BIA, which has the obligation and jurisdiction to evaluate and some other data relating to persons who may indicate suspicion or possibly confirm corrupt action. Therefore, the full support of the Committee on Justice, which has responded with the amendment, and I am sure that this amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal for this law, and that in this way we will have one kind of security when it comes to persons acting in cases or in the procedures of determining, under one, excess assets, under two, the establishment of the illegality of the acquisition of that excess property. At the very end, when we comment on this bill, I want to express the position of the SPS parliamentary group, of course, the SPS as a whole, we will never stop, nor stop making our full contribution to reducing corruption, in trying to eliminate it as a whole, to destroy corruption, because the only state in which there is no corruption, there is no corruption to the extent to which it threatens the foundations of the state, can provide legal certainty to citizens, and the SPS as a state-run party has always fought for such a thing, and on that path will remain consistent until the end. Whether or not corruption will be eradicated depends mostly on those who, as citizens, are obliged and obliged to respect both rights and freedoms, but at the same time have obligations towards the state, and the fundamental obligation towards the state is to safeguard and protect the state from any action that can undermine the state, the legal system, political and social order, and unfortunately, to the greatest extent, that is corruption. So, the SPS remains consistent on the way to fight such a monster. As for the other two laws, I will comment very briefly. Dear Ministers, the provisions of the Law on Prosecution, which amends the existing, or individual provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure, are good solutions, but I will ask you to make as Minister of Internal Affairs and a man who has made a great contribution to the Ministry and modernity and to be far more efficient, far closer to the people in order to protect citizens' rights, that data that are otherwise relatively fast received by the MUP make it even more accessible. It is the fact that any judgment brought by the court for information on parties must provide information relating to the so-called so-called ‘. personal generalies, i.e. personal data such as JMBG, etc. In the law profession, there is one established practice for lawyers to address the MUP, the competent service, for the purpose of obtaining JMBG, in order to settle the case, so that it would be a submission which is similar to that of the court and that the party would not suffer if the complaint was dismissed because it was messy. What might be extra useful here? It's still to make some extra effort to speed up the process of forwarding data from the database, it's public registers, and when I talk about public registers, I also mean at the head of the reliability of those data in public registers, then it's logical that these data can be obtained by electronic means immediately. Therefore, it would be good for lawyers as a professional organisation that protects the interests of citizens to be directly linked by electronic means to data relating to the particulars of the parties concerned. I think it's certainly possible, given that our Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has improved the so-called. e-Government by an electronic database which implies availability at any time and that it can also be in this case. Finally, as regards the provisions of the Law on Liaison Relations, it is good that this law is in line with other regulations, with the regulations relating to public notary activity, with the regulations relating to the immobility movement, but only one small remark to the Ministry of Justice, my respected colleague, whom I very much respect, Mr. Cosic, this should have happened earlier, not this long before we agreed these laws, because we are precisely because of these problems that appear in practice could already have been applied. Thank you. Once again, support for the SPS proposed set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72109	Thank you. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72110	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, for one, I would say, a very contentious debate in which you have also raised more interesting questions. Let me tell you, every law, you know it itself, that causes public attention, which essentially had a certain complexity, also causes different issues, interpretation and, of course, the application of that law is not only about the regulation, but also about how we're going to apply it, not just this law, but about a number of others. This law is important because in one system way, and thank you for supporting it, it regulates how to fight corruption more effectively and how to show that we are as a country committed not to allowing someone who illegally acquired property to be available to them and that those citizens who have done so are legally humiliated and that you have actually done the wrong thing in life by paying taxes, because you have earned your work with your property. Of course, by doing so, one burden, as I would say, let the shadow of doubt be removed from certain people who are sometimes created in public by an image that they acquired their property illegally, and in fact they did not. So the law here is very clear. As for some of the questions that you asked, two sets of questions, it was also interesting to me, I consulted my colleagues about it, especially in the case where the party cannot be present during the procedure and in fact we have put a legal solution that says that the absence of the party does not stop the procedure precisely because of the desire to be effective. You know yourself that there have often been different procedures, since there is a tax procedure here, but in tax procedures, in court proceedings, in all other cases, often the parties have tried to, using their legal rights and trying to postpone the terms of control, trial, anything, avoid essential responsibility. So we didn't want that to happen here. However, what is the roof law related to the tax system, so these regulations also apply to the tax system in line with this law. Therefore, anyone who makes his absence justified, who proves that he was justly absent at that time will not suffer negative consequences. So in that sense, I think it's an interpretation of something that's important, but we wanted to highlight this norm. It is not in collegiate with the tax procedure previously mentioned. Here we wanted to stress this standard precisely because we would not make anyone likely, as it is said here, that he can avoid responsibility by avoiding his presence in the process. And we're also going to have, in fact, one body here to implement, so this special department in the IRS, where we're going to actually manage to level the procedure in the territory of the whole country, or we're going to have a unique standard that's going to work, which is good. I believe that's how we're going to achieve... And again, I say what I said in the introduction that it won't happen in two, three weeks, certainly people don't expect something miraculous to happen. After all, only the fact of the law comes into force one year from the date of adoption of this regulation in the National Assembly, because it takes preparatory actions, to train people, to ensure that these special departments are formed and connected to a single system of databases where they will be able to effectively from other state authorities, have liaison officers, to draw data that prove that kind of property. Also, what your second question was, I have to consider with my colleagues, at first glance, it doesn't seem likely that we can allow anyone to access citizens' personal data with a unique home number past state authorities. Let's think about whether we can establish a mechanism where we can completely rule out abuse and actually facilitate the channel of communication. You know I'm always trying, the easiest thing to say is no, no, and that's the easiest answer ever, to see if there's anything we can do, but of course we're not jeopardizing the safety of citizens' data. I'd like to commend that, if I don't want anyone else, the people of the Information and Analysis Sector of the MUP. So, from the moment the sector was established, from the moment the databases, servers, services, everything kept there, not one of those data, which the citizens gave, not the ID numbers, not the passports, not the parent numbers, never leaked, never stolen, not in any way, not the safe keeping of the MUP, so I want to commend their work, and I think they're exceptional experts. I want to thank them because they have chosen to work for their country in fact, and I am convinced that in the private sector today they could earn even more wages and have higher incomes. So, professionals who have chosen to stay in their country for patriotic reasons. I want to thank them for their good work, really something that we have to point out because these are the people who are actually allowing us to talk today about the electronics administration, so that we can talk about a easier connection. In the end, they will be the ones who will be in charge of implementing certain segments of these laws, because the databases, which the MUP will give to tax authorities and co-operate with them, will just go through these databases. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72111	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word came from Nedjo Jovanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72112	I thank you, Chairman. I'm glad that we share the same views on essential issues when it comes to the bill's proposal, with me doing a little crackdown, and that's next. And this Act on the Origin of Assets, i.e. Taxation of illegally acquired Assets, has a partial and procedural and material and legal character. So it's also process norms and material-legal norms. It is similar with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. There is only one small, extremely well-intentioned suggestion, which is that it is precisely in this law that it is clearly indicated that procedural discipline, and when we talk about procedural discipline, that means that I, as a party to the procedure, do not compromise the procedure, do not influence the delay, that I do not obstruct the body that is conducting the procedure, that the provisions of the ZPPPA are applied accordingly, or the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. This here is not highlighted in an implicit way, but is simply said – not the participation of parties in the procedure or parties in the procedure does not delay the taking of action. General norm. Since I know in practice how a suitable epilogue is sometimes experienced, this epilogue can be harmful to the parties, because it is applied differently by the authorities. What I want to say, Minister, to be honest, is that this government has managed in one thing to establish fiscal discipline, contributes to an even greater establishment of discipline in the fiscal sense of the word is this law and therefore respect for the SPS and our contribution to all of this is something that will be our principle in further work together with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72113	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72114	As I have said and what the law says, the procedure prescribed by this law, if it is not otherwise laid down by this law, is governed by the tax procedure and tax administration. In any case, what is good, the competent board of the National Assembly today, quite clearly, through these words spoken during this debate, can know what the authentic will of the National Assembly is when it adopts this law, or the author of the law and, of course, the MPs who bring it. Only through the authentic interpretation of the law tomorrow, if there is a difference of observation of this point, I think it is now unequivocally clear that we intend to also apply the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration to this norm. There's one more thing I wanted to say. What was interesting to me, for example, and I'm here with my colleagues at the Justice Department talking, that was a criminal responsibility, that's what maybe one part of the people won't understand at the first minute. So we have someone who has acquired illegal property in three years, so more than 150 thousand euros in dinar equivalent or higher, and we charge that person, first, a 75% tax, but that first includes, if we suspect that there is a crime, the prosecution and it determines criminal responsibility, but not only for the remaining 25%, but also for the other property that the person can have. We can then subtract 100% of those assets, but at that point, the prosecutions are involved and in terms of other assets that the person owns. If you, for example, were in 2007, you, a person, got a glass in 2007, I don't know, 30,000 euros, in 2008, 100,000 euros, then in 2009, you didn't get the property, so in 2010, you did, you don't actually have a three-year acquisition... That's right, you can't apply this law. In the event that there is a crime, you can also apply the law to other assets in other years, if you establish the basis for following this law. I mean, I think it's well thought out that we have a fact that we can't avoid legal punishment for a crime, and that we certainly have the ability to take away property, so I think it's an important message, because, unfortunately, it's going to do this job in the MUP, too, and I realized that organised crime bearers only care about one thing – taking away property. They're not so worried about going to jail, unfortunately, of course they're trying to avoid it, but it hurts the most when their property is taken away. And you, when you have the opportunity to take away today the property they can't show, or prove its origin and property acquired through a crime, you have achieved exactly that lesson that we want to teach them, which is that the crime isn't worth it. On the other hand, what you said, and I totally agree, that this government has succeeded along with the National Assembly, I like to point out that because the National Assembly was really important in this process, that it can achieve one fiscal discipline to charge a lot more taxes, because that tax when people say -- yes, tax is charged, yes, it's our schools, hospitals, roads, everything that's built in this country is built out of taxes, it's built out of the income that the state has, it's built out of what our country achieves, what our companies and businesses are accomplishing, what the economy achieves. All these taxes serve to build a better country. The better we are at tax collection, the more normal people don't think about how they're going to find a hole and pay less or try to avoid paying taxes, but how they're going to pay taxes and be calm with the money they legally made, the more we're going to have an even richer, more powerful state that can do more for their citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72115	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Now the word has Alexander Stevanović. Here you go, Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72116	Thank you. People's MPs are getting it. [[off microphone]] I can, and louder is no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72117	I'm sorry, the microphone wasn't on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72118	So this is one law that essentially deals with justice more than the rule of law. On the other hand, we can say that we are unable to quickly build the rule of law in Serbia, which is not something that is not realistic to expect to happen overnight, because other countries have been building the rule of law and independent institutions for a very long time. The question is, how far did we get in this process? This law essentially serves to bridge some of the things common institutions, the usual criminal procedure and other system institutions simply failed to do for many reasons. These reasons were very often objective, as Serbia went through a major change in the system and other countries' experiences taught us that this change of system was never deprived of the abuses that occurred during these periods and the great injustices that in some way destroyed the cohesion of a society. So my question, if we've already decided on a law like this against which the MP group of the Modern Serbian Party has nothing against, the law is not too long, quite simple in its matter, why were we waiting for 2020? What is good is that the law is passed at the end of the term of one majority, because in that case, since it is not known who will be the next majority, this law can apply to anyone. On the other hand, it can be said that it is not politically motivated in its essence. But what's going to stay like one stone in a shoe is why were we waiting to pass this law by 2020? We have basically admitted that we no longer love the outcomes of a system that does not fully function properly, but that we have managed to set that system to function in each segment. Simply, this law provides an answer to a typical question that says that justice is usually and badly desired, but whoever seeks justice will most likely look for it for a very long time. This law tries to make this path of seeking justice that is important for the cohesion of a society as much as we observe it differently make it faster and more certain. But what I would point out is that there is no substitute for institutions like the judiciary, for good criminal law, for people who are deprived of the pressures of each type and who are able to do their job. Basically, there is no substitute for institutions that form the rule of law or for those who form the equality of all people in one country before the law. Logically, you have great expectations of such a law and it is often warmed up in public. But what is likely to be disappointing is just for those who say they want justice, and they are not aware of how much justice is, at least that heavenly great justice is very often far away, and that Serbia's greatest abuses are done by law, that many of the abuses that occurred in Serbia at this point are hard to prove in the current judicial system. Although we all agree here that, for example, tunneling or breaking a legal person when you use a limited liability society as if it were your private property and that you weren't in relationships with trustees and everyone else, a crime, the experience of our courts' practices has proved to us over and over again that the tunneling almost never proved or that these processes lasted very long, and that the outcomes were ultimately disappointing to those who thought they had proven such things. In these 20 years of change in the system, which has changed for a very long time in Serbia and has not changed enough to say that Serbia has become a real Western country in which there is an indisputable rule of law and an independent institution, we have had numerous cases where it has arisen in a way that is extremely strange and whose consequences are not only seen in the fact that someone has acquired, but that it has left to all of us all the costs of such gain. We've had numerous cases of destroying legal persons in Serbia by being bought from borrowed capital, and this borrowed capital was given by banks that had absolutely no desire to get that money back to them, so when you don't have to buy back some company, you don't have any problem pushing that company into debt after a while, you get the money out of that company and that money to become your private money. It has been so much in Serbia and so much damage has been done by just such behaviour that it is very difficult to perform the final bill. But what's most likely the problem with this law is that exactly the biggest players who have done such things will remain out of reach of that law because what you've done in fact is more iniquities, the more firms you've ruined, the more banks you've pushed into the end that we now as Serbian citizens are paying for this budget or paying through new bonds of Serbia over and over again, the problem is that most likely there's no way we're going to see justice for the simple reason that in most cases this was done under good law and what people have done, and there's another thing I'm going to go back to. When you take 100 million or 200 million, it hurts people in Serbia, they don't care that someone took 10 or 20 thousand, and these are the biggest problems that exist in Serbia, then you have the opportunity to protect yourself in legal proceedings, to make the best tax avoidance schemes using both Serbian regulations and the possibility of co-operation with tax areas that do not want to co-operate with Serbia at all, means offshore zones of certain, although there is nothing illegal about dealing with them, but there are activities that are very close to illegal and that ultimately sumarum will be very difficult to prove with this law exactly the biggest crimes that have happened in Serbia. My skepticism is pretty deep, and I think it's actually going to be a key question, not whether the past can be corrected, whether it has to be paid a price for something other people drink in a pub, but whether today we can ask the system and whether this law creates what is the essence of the country's defence against crimes, which is that the profit from crime is not easily available, that the risk of committing a crime is great, and that the institutions are able to process these acts. That's where I'll go back to what I already said. I think it's essential that people who work in the IRS are trained, extremely trained, that they have legal support, because if they go into the process they won't go in with people who are naive and who won't have good legal support, very good quality, to be adequately paid because sooner or later people who do risky jobs, for mediocre money, they get bored because they see that some other decisions are better. Again, given that it is unrealistic to expect someone to pay 10,000 euros to do the job because then they would raise the hook and the disruptors, among other things, why this is happening, then the question is that people who are dealing with the procedure first see that the process makes sense, that is, that is, that is, to process. At the same time as the Minister's jurisdiction, there were no particularly good salaries in the MUP, and now it's different, and until there was no good equipment, people said the salaries were small, but what made them nervous is that their work eventually fell in every respect and then not only worked for a little while, but they felt about five, six years ago as if it didn't make sense at all, and that in Serbia, injustice was winning, almost constantly. So if we want an instant law in a certain age that we can't get through regular legal forms, it's essential that those who put their time, and I'd say probably their safety in question has a sense of meaning. What is important in the long term for Serbia is not to bring in a lex specialist who is involved in determining that someone has acquired a rich amount of property without being able to explain it. That's the consequence. It's very unusual that if you have an average Serbian family and say it's three and a half people, let's say that one child is very often and adult. It is very difficult to expect that you have a family that does not know how it has acquired 450,000 euros, which is the limit for prosecution, since the most common thing that is acquired by the criminal part is on both family and family, and in recent times people who are not related, to cover their tracks. So it's not at all questionable that it should be investigated. But what is the question of how did we come into a position that could happen in Serbia at all? And what it is is a fact I tell the rule of law no one built in two, five, ten years. But what is the point is that, besides this law, we must have constant work to improve institutions. Because only if we have all the institutions promoted, independent, under the rule of law can we have what's the key, which is that crime is not worth it or that it pays off to those who are really willing to take the risk, so they want to accept it. Most people aren't. The problem is when such activities begin to be done by those who would never work, for they see that others are doing well. And there's the point. To make institutions, we need to know how institutions are made. We can pass this law, but if we don't reform the judiciary, I'm afraid it's going to be air-conditioned and we're going to be doing more Lex specials that can cover some, than we're going to do with what's standard practice in the world. I do not expect anyone in Serbia to have a judiciary like Sweden in two or five years' time, but we expect it to finally start working to reduce the effects of a terrible reform of the judiciary that has taken place. It's something that needs to be started, because without it, I'm afraid, many things could be tampered with in place. With all due respect, if we're the Scandinavians here, that's how the judge will be before Mile and Knut and the judge will be before the militia. Scarlett. That's quite clear. Also, what is important to say in the construction of institutions is to show that in laws and in the application of this law and each other, there is no moment when people are afraid to apply what is in their jurisdiction, which is very often in our case, and that is something that keeps us from developing independent institutions, functional institutions, institutions under the rule of law, and the rule of law and independent institutions of one country in economic development, in one elemental justice and creating a sense of benefit, are worth more than many things that we point out in the first plan and precondition and that Serbia becomes a country of innovation, Serbia becomes a country of rapid growth, Serbia is a country where people want to return, Serbia in which people want to stay. Again, it's not an easy process, but what's necessary is to work every day over and over, as boring as it may be and as frustrated as it is in Serbia, and we've been getting some reports where there were questions about what more to be done and that's true. What else would I point out? Serbia is one country where it is very much like to run a policy of half-truths and untrues, many political careers have been built on complete lies and lies, and that is what is done today. Eclative examples are crazy messages that beat each other, for example. Migrants. We had later stories about vaccinations, we had stories when it came to illegal construction and stuff. If this law is not explained to the citizens of Serbia very clearly, and it is that, with the best will and the best people of this world who apply it, and we are all ordinary people, starting with this Parliament, through executive and judicial authority, what people in Serbia feel is not as colossal injustice will be corrected as much as they think they will, as much as it hurts their eyes. It's important that we don't say at some point in the future -- well, this is nothing, because this doesn't have to be anything. This could be something, one solid thing. Also, the other thing to explain is that this law, since the first expectation will be to serve in a typical Serbian political game I will tycoon you, you will tycoon and thief me, but he does not serve for it. This law is for all citizens to explain that the point of this law is not that someone who has acquired work on black, some property of 10 or 20,000 euros on the small town's periphery, that the person should be terrified. This person, like many in Serbia, because we lived in an undeveloped society that has not been built up to this day, is not the subject of this law, and it is very easy to make campaigns that would be identical, for example. The campaign now being led against migrants, which are no danger to Serbia, which have become a very dominant topic of the campaign. Equally, you can run a campaign and say the point of this law is to kidnap someone 10,000 euros in assets, which they acquired by working on black. It is simply not the case, and therefore it is also necessary to explain carefully why 150 thousand were withdrawn from the border, and it was withdrawn because we have legal continuity and one law, let's say from 2003, which signed that all assets are over 200,000, and it doesn't have to be below. So setting at 150 grand is pretty much, as I would say one reasonable height. Above all, I'll repeat, we have nothing against this law, we don't think it will epochally bring justice, we think it will help that we haven't built a rule of law as it exists in Western countries, that we haven't reformed the judiciary enough, which is a process that goes on, that we'll manage to bridge some things, to deter some people from crime, to maybe punish those who deal with crime. I believe that many who have been carefully engaged in acts that are at the border of crime will pass, not under the work, but you will not be able to process them, but we also believe that not everyone who thinks about it will be able to take and abuse any state position, whether money comes in other illegal ways and that's a good thing. Because it's no good if breaking the law becomes a mass game and on that side, this law prevents it and it's a good thing. But in the end, I will repeat once again, there is no substitute for a dedicated, daily, difficult, boring, horrifying frustration, frustrating building the rule of law. There's almost nothing that's better outputs the state, rule of law, independent judiciary, independent institutions. That's what drives society, and that's what makes the difference between Serbia growing in better years 4% or 5% using many shortcuts now used by Serbia that would grow 6% or 7% without shortcuts. The road is difficult, I repeat, the road is boring, there are no attractive media matters on that road, and in order to deal with politics, you have to be re-elected, whoever it is, or you have to be chosen, and you weren't, that's the same truth, but that's why there's no replacement. The MP group of the Modern Serbia Party, I say once again, has nothing against this law, but it points out that it can be a help, that it can be an addition, but it can't be a substitute for this long, boring process that ultimately gives long-term sustainable and best fruits, and I, as a parrot, will repeat in this National Assembly for the 100th time, it's called the rule of law, it's called independent institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72119	The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72120	Dear People's MPs, since 2012, we have started here essentially with the construction of an anti-corruption mechanism in Serbia that never existed until then. So almost there was no such thing as what existed was so unsupervised. Only when I remember what Verica Barac said, what the people of the Anti-Corruption Council said, assessing the authority that put them in those places, because they were the anti-corruption body of the Serbian government back then. In addition, it was possible, just as the esteemed fellow MP said in the discussion before me, unfortunately one part of the people who, once in this National Assembly, are being branded guilty of the collapse of our economy, our financial system, our economy, our factories, will probably go unpunished because at that time in this National Assembly, they were passing laws that allowed them to implement these machinations legally, completely immorally, completely against the consciousness, completely against the interests of the citizens, completely destroying our system by enriching themselves, but in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, they passed laws that allowed them to do so and that today they were not afraid of prosecution at all, because these actions, like the ones in the privatization, were that you were able to enter into the plant without having to settle, say, a privatisation obligation. So, you're quoting the factory, or you're counting the price you're going to buy the company, you're going to own that company, you're going to sell it, you're going to destroy it, you're going to destroy it, you're not paying what you've quoted, and after six months you're going out and you're saying, "This is a disaster, I'm leaving this, and you're leaving this, and you're making a profit, let's say, a company reserve or selling the company property, and nothing to anyone." Unfortunately, such laws have been passed, like many others, and so often people ask me, that's what I mean for the citizens of Serbia, often people ask – wait, you say they destroyed the companies, so why don't you arrest them? That's a very difficult question. It's a tough question, because these people were in a position to pass laws at the time. I'm sorry, all those who tell us about the many things in this country, which were government then, just ask them a question – excuse me, why didn't you do it? Why didn't you bring regulations? Why didn't you pass regulations that allow for a more effective fight against corruption? Why did you bring regulations or did you not bring regulations to Serbia, unfortunately, under the reflectors as one of the countries at the time that was marked as a very highly corrupt country and where the risk factors, from money laundering, corrupt activities, illegal action, were extremely high? The answer is very simple – because the people who were at the time running state systems had an interest in being inefficient and not fighting corruption. In 2012, we began to establish a serious, strong, efficient mechanism to fight corruption and we brought and then, here in the National Assembly, the first was the new Public Procurement Act. Remember, Mr. Arsic remembers this very well, the new Public Procurement Act served as the first serious instrument in the fight against corruption in our country. I know when it's been enough years, people forget it and it seems like it's been there all along. It's not. Remember the objections we had both citizens and businesses and societies, everyone, to the laws before that, where you practically through public procurement had enormous corruption. The new law of 2012 did agree the system, it did make it, perhaps more complex, more difficult to implement, but it dramatically reduced the corrupt functioning. It's dramatic. You have from that moment to this day, the new Anti-Corruption Agency Act where we constantly promote it and work all the time to give the Agency more authority and more opportunities to process those in its jurisdiction. Also, the Alert Act, the Lobby Act. Then we passed a new Law on the jurisdiction of the state authorities in the fight against organised crime and corruption, thus establishing special judicial departments, special prosecutions, special prosecutorial departments to fight corruption, special police units. We, I'll give you one piece of information, we in 2019 had 584 strong verdicts in anti-corruption cases, 584 only in 2019. This is also the result of better training of people from the prosecution and police, better co-operation with courts who are also better trained independently of these of course and of course, more education and more mechanisms in the hands of organs and bodies, and ultimately tax administrations. We've had a completely different reform in the IRS as well. We today have much more efficient mechanisms to prevent money laundering and in those areas marked as potential risks, such as construction, especially where licence holders are not legal, but natural persons and, of course, where we have gambling, so whether they took place in the virtual world or whether they are classical gambling, where we have established new tax administration mechanisms, where we have established new mechanisms of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which today with much more capacity and more inspectors and more competencies treat and prevent anyone from using something that was only seven, eight or ten years ago, was completely normal and possible, to enter the casino and report a profit of 100,000 euros and suddenly you have washed 100,000 euros of money. Today, of course, it's impossible, absolutely impossible. So, thousands of such examples. Why? Because this government wanted it not to be cosmetics, that it wasn't something we brought just to bring, but to be applicable, and that this system began to be built, difficult, rule of law, as the previous MP said, it's not easy to establish both painful and difficult, but we have embarked on it and we have set out seriously to establish that Serbia is one of the countries leading in this region in this sense. So this law, which is before you today, comes as a crown, so in 2020 as the crown of all previous activities that will allow us to have 60 new inspectors in the next year who will be involved in researching the origin of the property, who will be specially trained for these activities and who, along with other competent state authorities, whose synergy and fruit are important because not even these 60 people will be able to do everything, will investigate anyone who is under the influence of this law. I think the important thing is that it would be very important to first explore the assets of politicians, government members in the first place, because there will be no trust in the law if it is not the first principle. So, explore the origin of the property of those people who propose the law, those who are the highest executives, so the Government of the Republic of Serbia, explore the property of each of them, each family member, each and every one, and you can determine whether it's really honest or not, and then you move on. Of course, earlier attempts in history in our system have been made to give property to family members, to be given even to persons who are not connected to each other, but by this law, it just means that these people will be struck by the law, they will have to explain where they come from, where their property, their family members, their connected faces. In fact, you, the one who wants to cover up his assets by giving it to someone else, will be unhappy with his family, because he's going to have to pay taxes, to determine his crime, to get into tax checks with the IRS, with the D.A.'s office, with all the state's authorities. So this law gives us the possibility of a wide procedure and there is no one who can't be affected by this law. It's an excellent anti-corruption mechanism. So we have the will of the state to take this seriously. This law gives us in one place, sublimes all those opportunities that the Tax Administration had in one part and before, but extends the possibilities, and not only the Tax Administrations, but also other state authorities, and gives clear norms about what our target is. Of course it'll be the first, besides what I said about politics, to be the first ones whose property is multimillion, the one that's huge, the biggest and should be checked. Of course there will be those who are smaller, but when we have them people will try harder to pay taxes, because avoiding tax payments everywhere in the world is a difficult act, because you are in fact making it impossible for the state to make progress. Don't pay taxes – no roads, no school, no bridges, no hospitals. That's the point, no plumbing, no sewers, no normal life, no bigger pensions. That's it. That's why we want to do this the serious way, of course, we do. We want to fight together with the National Assembly to improve in the future everything we see from experience in the application of the law that we can do even better and we can do even more effectively, but I think that the adoption of this law, along with all of the above-mentioned anti-corruption mechanisms in Serbia, will be one way round. We gain only the possibility that in a serious way, by applying all these laws, and I'm telling you, with 584 judicial rulings in 2019, there is no country in the region that can show it, none. It's hundreds of years of prison sentences, it's millions of seized property, in euros, of course, and it's a mechanism that shows that we have the opportunity to get to everyone, because there's also a holder of government, there are those who are public officials, there are those who are in private business, there are those who are intermediaries between them, there are various persons who have broken the law and that are covered by these criminal mechanisms. This mechanism that we bring today will allow those who think they've made it through and those who think they've avoided criminal responsibility must prove the origin of their property. What's the problem if you have the origin of the property? Why is that a problem for any man? Of course, when, in accordance with these laws, the tax authorities make it likely that you have met these conditions, not to repeat them, the ones that the law provides. What's the problem? You have everything, the job, the money goes through the account, why is the problem? That's one copy from the bank, two, five, it doesn't matter. The problem is when he has disproportionately large assets, someone who suddenly has 50, 100 million euros and has no origin. How can we miss these people, forgive them, tell them, it's okay, it doesn't matter? Of course we can't and of course we have to show that we're committed. So once again, I thank the National Assembly, which has been serious all these years, in various fellows since 2012, we have realized how important it is, we will have, you will see, and in all of 2012 I have witnessed huge resistances that have appeared at various levels in the society of passing such laws. She doesn't answer to everyone's fight against corruption and she's not easy. Every time you fight corruption you'll have attacks, you'll have campaigns from morning to night, for God's sake for something else. You basically know why. Thank you again for your support and thank you for your firm conviction to support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72121	The People's MP, Aleksandar Stevanovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72122	Actually, it's more of a supplement and one warning, let's put it that way, advice. So corruption is evil and it's not at all controversial, but there's a particular soil that suits the development of corruption. When we face corruption in one society, we always like to take the axe, the hair, and hope that one strong action using the legal force, of course, in which the law is applied and learned, will come down to one level that is acceptable. Corruption cannot be eradicated. Whoever thinks they are, they're wrong. However, practice says corruption is best eradicated by reducing the number of points where corruption can arise. The best way to fight corruption is to have one good division of business between the state and the private sector. A country that does those jobs where the state is undoubtedly better and the private sector to do what is better and to make legal and economic relations between the private sector and the state simple and clearly understandable and visible to everyone. That way we cut down places where corruption can arise and where all the things that encourage people to behave illegally can arise. It is a force without citizens who see the good organisation of the state, who realize that low taxes achieve a lot of things, only that can lead to a mental hygiene where corrupt activities are not used and in which they do not avoid obligations to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72123	Thank you. I ask, does any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, corruption is an abuse of public authority for its own purposes. Corruption is also closely linked to the investigation of the origin of the property, but mostly when it is said it is thought of the property of politicians. Corruption can be white, gray and black. White is based on nepotism, gray is in the exchange of certain services and they are not prosecuted. She's black when you do it for money. Corruption in politicians, at a certain number, has produced wealth that, in my opinion, they cannot explain. This law has already fulfilled its purpose, in a certain way. The rich who have become rich in politics now have nothing but fear of losing it. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas, imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that during what he says you are benefiting from your public function. Does he have any other acquisition benefits? Hardly. Even his fortune is based, right on his public function. So he was in the office, head of the office of Boris Tadic, was minister of national investment plan. The national investment plan was mainly a plan to build a highway where money will go into his private pockets and eventually be the mayor, or what our young people say the thief is driving 619m euros from there. He and Solak are no longer thinking with their heads, now they're thinking with their wallet. Their brain's in their wallet, their wallet's in their pocket. This law leads them to fear of losing it. Poverty doesn't make poor, poverty produces rich, especially those rudely wealthy, who have become rich in public office, such as Dragan Gilas. Why does the rich thus produce poverty? Because financial resources and material goods are separated for their own benefit, money is often out of our streams abroad and poverty is produced. There's enough money, but during the yellow unfortunates, they've been misaligned, they've shared evil and good with the people, by taking good from themselves, and leaving evil to the people. Their wealth, money and corruption were also a bad message for investors. Imagine, in Gilas' time, why was there no investment from abroad? Well, people saw that functioners, and that's centralized corruption, when state leadership brings money out and when it's corrupt, then it's central corruption, and when people see that state leadership is making money abroad, they say - what we do in that country to invest, when you see that their state leadership, officials, Đilas, Pajtic, Jesic, as they're called all the Sutanovac or the kidnapper, when they're bringing money abroad. Why would someone in that country, then invest? There were mutual ties, between the lack of investment and their wealth, which were on the world's, hips and other islands. Also, this resulted in some poverty, loss of jobs, because the money was driven from privatisation, and privatisation was more of a grab, than privatisation, or what Srem said to be a bit private. It meant eating a little bit, like just so little, so it was a predatory little privatisation of predatory. I'll give you some more examples. Imagine 300,000 acres, in 63 combinations, it's these great protectors, protectors now farmers, etc., they forgot it, it's like forgotten, it's over. No, it's not over, 63 combinations were sold for a price below 2m euros per piece. I'm not talking about cooperatives, combinations that had thousands of acres of agricultural land. On the side and what Saric was their leading investor, it is those who are fighting the drug market, etc. They're the ones with the chickens with the stretchers, the flyers, etc. Where these flyers, who change four parties, talk about coke, thinking they're coke, that it's a coke drug, that it's made in a henhouse. I think they're very familiar, since they share a common line with Sergei Trifunovic, but my God. The privatisation of combinations 1.8m euros per piece, 300 000 hectares, sold for, I think, 150m euros, maximum. The value of 300,000 hectares of the Duke's land is 4.5 billion today. Now someone's going to charge them, I don't know, that 150 million, etc, that they stole to sell it so cheaply, and they essentially did the damage of 4.5 billion. Now I'm asking you, that they also have an objection to the PKK, where the PKK was sold for the amount of money they got for all 63 companies or 300,000 hectares. Now they objected, as it could not have been more expensive and so on, while in the PKK they made 82m euros in debt, and, behold, miracles, at a time when the PKK-run thief in Belgrade was Dragan Djilas, and, behold, the PKK's leadership was brought directly from Delta by Miskovic. Now I ask you, do they really think they don't have the fear of losing that fortune that they've acquired in such a dirty and rude way. The wealth is like sea water, the more they have it, the more thirsty they are. So, Solak and Gilas are the best examples, Solak number two. Tell me, Minister, how much money has Solak invested, what's the entrance to Serbia? How much did he invest? So, KDS systems, later SSV, United Group, United Media, Darek Media, which is a member of United Group, United Media. "Darek Media" was Gilas's, right? Like they're not connected to each other? It's very easy to connect with each other, the advertising market and so on. Tell me, how much did Solak bring money into Serbia? He invested, it's time to make money, not a problem, but I think it was a minor investment. He pulled cables on EPS networks and so on. Do you know how much he sold that business for? So the United Group, the SBB and so on, first sold its business, part of its business for 1.5 billion euros, while you were driving as state leadership in that falling Falcon, it had two new ones. One is Falcone, the other is similar to some brand. Now I'm wondering, since it's been made public in the Dnevnik so indirectly that he's a taxpayer in Switzerland. Wait, his business is here, he makes hundreds of millions of euros a year, his business was one and a half billion, so that business, along with that David Petreus, was turned into a BS partner. How much money? In 2.6 billion euros. So, Solakov's business and Gilasov's sold, it was worth 2.6 billion euros. Now I could ask you as Minister of Police, how much money did those two invest in this business when they managed to sell it for 2.6 billion euros? Have state resources, EPS resources, heat and so on been used? Were the privileges that Gilas had in the state leadership used because he was a minister, because he was a thief, because he was close to Boris Tadic and so on? How much money they invested to get 2.6 billion euros for business and stay in some game again, and again take hundreds of millions of euros from subscribers from Serbia's territory. The best evidence is with Telecom. Telecom wanted to choke, they now asked for their channels to move away from Telecom, including N1, and now they would only return N1, but not free of charge. So Telecom says, come on, we'll let you go for free, broadcast for 800,000 users to the mall. Which means it's looking at a million, two million people. He can watch, but he won't look, and you can't make people watch N1, read "Today", "Time", and so on, people won't, as you can't make them vote for those unfortunates who boycott the work of the National Assembly here. I'd like to know how we can deal with them in the first place, because it's huge money and people who think they can do anything, that they can buy MP groups, that they can buy political parties, that they can control other political parties, through debt slavery. People who think they can do anything with money. They usually think after that they do everything for money, like in that seawater, that the more they have, the more they're thirsty. That's why I support these laws, but I wonder – what about those who bought them by 2007, like Jesic apartments in Vienna, swimming pools for uncles or uncles, uncles and so on? What about those who had torn shoes and torn jeans, what about those moral credibility sizes that, miraculously, suddenly gained several thousand squares of space, penthouses and so on? What we're going to do with them, in what way and in what set of laws, not just this one law, we're going to go after them and show the people that we're going to stop crime and we're not going to let crime stop the state. My message to all politicians is that they didn't carry anyone's wallet in front of the cross. No capital in Serbia lasted 100 years, remember. Try and check it out. No capital in Serbia has lasted more than 100 years. They didn't carry anyone's wallet in front of the cross, and the best oak coffin is just a coffin, no treasure has ever waited for a grandson to spend it, and that's why my message to politicians and all these rich people who got rich this way. Don't steal so much, you can't eat three soups at the same time, you can't eat three mixed meats, you can't eat three cancers at the same time, you can't sleep in three villas, you can't have three girls that are expensive, so don't steal so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72125	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72126	Dear President, honourable ministers and fellow Members, we have, in addition to today's draft law, the Law establishing the origin of the property and the special tax to be discussed in detail, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Procedure and Obligation Relations, and the Proposal for Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against corruption, within the framework of the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative. When we talk about these laws concerning amendments and additions to the litigation process, and bonding relations, I can only say that this is actually the result of the harmonisation of the laws already passed here in the National Assembly, where we have improved many procedures, when it comes to these procedures at all, and secondly, we have the result of the digitisation of the state administration process, and in particular the improvement of life, the citizens of Serbia living and abroad, so that it is of great importance that today we adopt these amendments and complements for these people, but when we talk about the Memorandum of Understanding on Understanding and Co-operation in the fight against corruption, in international organisations of the anti-corruption initiative of Southeast Europe, then it is necessary to say that Serbia is actually ratifying one memorandum which is applicable from 17 May 2010 to today, but until today, the data is not ratified, but the key part of the region in which is particularly important, which is the anti-corruption of the region, when we are very important, when we are important, when we are in terms of common, when we speak, when we talk, when we speak, when we speak, when we talk, when we talk, when we talk about these laws and we talk about these laws about these laws and we talk about these laws and we talk about these laws about amendments and we talk about amendments and we talk about amendments to amendments to the amendments to the laws are not to amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments are not to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments are not to the amendments of the amendments of the amendments to the amendments of the amendments of the amendments of the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments So, she's talking about someone making money, so now we don't know where the money from corruption here in Serbia is anymore, because today, when our authorised institutions send demands about it, about certain taxpayers and we want to know if they have certain assets, related to apartments, cars, businesses, securities, bank accounts, they immediately receive a report from foreign institutions through certain international bilateral agreements. So today, crime is not really paid off and that crime that someone wants to deal with or deal with really sets a certain class of people we call criminals and who are simply finding it harder and harder to do their job. The proposal for a law establishing the origin of property and a special tax is a topic that began after 2000, you remember Professor Cupic in 2001, on the proposal for an extra profit law. Then in 2007, the then finance minister and then the prime minister, he said we didn't need such a law at all because there is already a good enough tax bill, and that simply the state doesn't have a need or demand for such a thing. In 2013, when in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the first vice president was Mr. Vukic, the first one was in charge of combating corruption, and the first one raised the question that this law really was needed for Serbia, but it appeared then, I will remind you of many economic experts from a certain university, who said there was no need for such a law at all, and that it would be some ex post justice and payment of that justice in 2015, we even had certain experts who were involved in both tax laws and tax administration, who said that the state was showing their weakness, that there would never be a chance that this law would never be passed and that there was no chance that the tax administration would have the strength to carry out such a job. And indeed, we have not had the opportunity to pass such a law so far, because the state had to do a big job first, and this big job is precisely this fiscal consolidation and economic reform which required certain legal solutions relating to the tax system to be fully redefined, or reconstructed, that indeed the Ministry of Finance can at any time, and with the help of linking the digitalisation of the system, it can control all the institutions that the tax administration in the future will really cooperate and use to make this law live and ultimately, it was necessary to regulate all these institutions administratively. The institutions that appear in co-operation in connecting this law to implement it is alongside the tax administration and the MUP, the National Bank of Serbia, then the Anti-Corruption Agency, then the Anti-Corruption Authority, then the Republic Geodetic Institute, then the Agency for Economic Registers, and the Central Registry for Clearing Charters. So you can see that many institutions will participate directly, they will have their own representative who will cooperate with the tax administration, in a certain way, in order to really get the right data based on which it would be feasible and applicable to bring this law to life and to function. And it's really going to work, because based on this proposal that's been given here, you'll see that the system of function of control, actually the origin of the property, has been elaborated. So we now have for the first time a tax system that is otherwise dynamic and that depends on the market and depends on the needs of Serbian citizens, but also depends on how the state treats its taxpayers. It is one of the basic conditions that the rule of law and all those who have said that we have weak institutions can not liven up to such a law, right now after this law, after these solutions, will realize how much we have really made progress as the Republic of Serbia. I'll tell you something else. This memorandum, which we are talking about, as we discuss regional co-operation, is precisely the case with the help of the European Commission and the international organisation that deals with anti-corruption activities, as it will co-operate with institutions in the Republic of Serbia. This is a mechanism for a state where the Republic of Serbia will know at any moment about each tax user in which it essentially owns certain assets, which is mobile, which is immovable, and in a certain way whether it pays the taxes and whether it is in the system of the last three years at the time of control, means, if there has been a change in capital over 150,000 values compared to its incomes whether there is this proportionality or there is no such proportionality. If it is shown that there is this disproportion of the control phase, it shall be carried out in two parts. One part is the one that refers to the procedure itself. The second part refers to proving the taxpayer that he has the origin of the property, whether it's legal or illegal. So it's legal if it brings in a particular file: where that money comes from, whether it's by the system of a given inheritance right or by the system that it's earned, or based on savings, based on income in an extremely legal way. Unless it can prove that, and can't prove it most often, those people who are engaged in certain illegal activities and if a check is actually launched that will prove that there are criminal proceedings, it is sent to the Ministry of the Interior, a unit that will launch an investigation together with the prosecution and therefore initiate certain proceedings. It is even envisaged that if all of it is found, of course, by law, without, for example, paying taxes for certain properties, copyright, property taxes, it is not reported, for example, tax returns before 2007, then the tax will be charged and paid on some other basis. Therefore, this law is not only a law relating to the origin of the property, it is also a kind of tax control on earlier grounds. When asked why is it only controlled since January 1st, 2007? Since 1 January 2007, essentially, the Tax Administration has a database fully digitized, so computerized all contracts and tax returns and therefore you can exercise certain control. Before that, there is in writing in tax units, in tax administrations these contracts and cannot be guaranteed whether they are all, whether they are there or not. It is therefore important for tax users to know that since 1.1.2007, all those in the system will participate in proving the right of origin of the property. When we talk about the tax administration controlling property, its value of assets, then tax returns, balances, final financial accounts, then we say that all citizens who are taxpayers, all entrepreneurs and all legal entities are going under control. Accordingly, the Tax Administration, after verifying all this, will exercise certain powers defined by this law from Article 6 to Article 9. And it is very important that there is this unit that will be specially formed, a unit of the tax administration of 60 inspectors who will work exclusively on this job. You heard from the minister that the president, i.e. the chief of the IRS unit, will be a man who will have to have certain knowledge over, 10 years of work in the IRS, or the IRS, that he will be appointed to the Government and that his term of office will take five years, but the conditions that he must meet, in addition to all this, is that he will have to report his property and will have to pass the security controls that are being carried out in certain ways prescribed by BIA and MUP Serbia procedures. Of course, these procedures apply to all other people who fall under this kind of control so that based on positive characteristics and based on everything, when certain steps are taken to obtain certain qualifications, such a man will lead this unit. This unit is tasked with, in addition to what it will do in the light of cross-checking of assets of income and expenditure, having the task of making a solution. To this solution, of course, in this process, the tax user himself can participate and many probably won't participate because they don't have a particular file to show. Those who do not want to participate simply cannot prevent the process from being completed. This means that this participation is not subject to certain penalties, but participation means that you attach appropriate documentation. After the solutions you get, unless the taxpayer is satisfied with it, if it's negative in the sense that you haven't proven the real origin of the property, the IRS is accounted for on that basis, 75%, you have the right to appeal as a tax user. If so, it is sent as a second-degree body to the Ministry of Finance, if you are rejected for the appeal you have the right, of course, to initiate an administrative dispute with the Administrative Court and afterwards, if the court confirms that solution you pay that penalty, unless you confirm you are going to continue the conduct of the Tax Administration. What's important to say is that the specificities that are very important to this law, that's to do this job and that what we wanted as a state, is that this law is applicable and the need to train the staff who are going to do it. These personnel who will do so are primarily judges in the Administrative Court, then people I said were representatives of these institutions who would also have to go through different types of training, as well as these inspectors who should have specialized training in this area, in order to really be able to do that cross-control. Keeping the data, what we heard and what's related to certain laws that we've passed to keep specific information about personalities and what my colleague Neđe Jovanovic said, I don't think he might have seen a member of the 24th that says that keeping this information is otherwise a business professional secret, and probably all inspectors will have to sign such a document, where with full material responsibility they have to keep a professional secret, so that's what this law provides. What's important is that criminal provisions for non-participation in the process are quite large, say, that for non-proving individuals, the delivery of documents to the IRS goes from 50,000,00 to 150,000,00 dinars, for entrepreneurs from 100,000,00 to 500,000,00 dinars, and for legal persons the amount of 500,000,00 to 2000,000,00 dinars. Therefore, the state here has provided a real full participation of all relevant entities in order to bring this law to life. Everyone will be responsible for their actions, i.e. their assets in front of the state through the Tax Administration and through tax returns. And, of course, what is important to say, is that order is being introduced in Serbia according to this law, that those who ruled Serbia before 2012, will have to prove that they acquired legally, entered and entered themselves into 1,625 squares of residential business space in Belgrade and how did they gain incomes of 619.000.000,00 euros through their firms and were in the position of mayors of Belgrade and Minister of Government? Those who participated and served as foreign ministers and received revenues for presidential campaigns at their 8,000,000-euro NGO will have to prove the origin of the property. How is it that the Tax Administration has never charged the land where Belville was built with the company of the owner of Mr. Miskovic, and Belville was built, and the apartments were sold through the Hipo Alpe Adria Bank? So, as you transferred state property to private property, you enlisted and where people were in the first 100 per fortune on the "Forbs list" will be subject to the work of the tax administration. These people will have to prove their property. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, by the way, said yesterday on the show on "First TV" that he could hardly wait to be the first to be the first to be as a politician whose property will be the subject of a tax administration's view and that the first one will seek to be an example of how all politicians should really show their property and where you have the means to dispose of as their property. Therefore, if this applies to the first in the country, it should apply to all of us who are involved in politics, but it will also apply to those who deal with the economy today, and sometimes they have been involved in politics. Therefore, this law really shows that law should begin to govern order in Serbia, and it rules by actually starting institutions to do their jobs and only as the crown of the work of these institutions and integrations, where there will be no abuse through the work of these institutions, such a law can be passed that will be applicable to all. Of course, it is very difficult to prove many abuses and that is what, on the one hand, is the skepticism of many MPs here, but it is up to us to fight for the law to live and to be applicable to each of us and to set an example for the citizens of Serbia, to be the first to stand in line when we pass such laws that we show that we have really changed Serbia from 2012 to today and that is why I believe that in the day of voting those who think well of this country and who are not afraid of any law that we are making here today should vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72127	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary group, want a word? (No) The word has a People's MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72128	Thank you. We are, as always, very interested that all those laws that benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be adopted and will always have the support of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and of our MPs, especially when it comes to legal solutions that go in this direction to that cancer of every society, including ours, what corruption, are at a minimum. They have great support for anyone who thinks well of himself and his family, his people, and finally the institutions and the state itself. Unfortunately, over the past three decades, during that cloudy period of transition, we have witnessed that people have been using heavy and burdensome times, that they have lambed for social property and that in this way they have alienated from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia great wealth, great giants, large production plants and thus damaged everyone who is, and each citizen through his family invested in the construction of all these economic entities that were the victims of every individual's coward. That is why we are particularly interested in adopting this law and finally, through some kind of moral or social satisfaction, all those people who have been victims of bad privatisations for years, most often tycoons, misusing their connections and relationships with corrupt politicians, destroyed our economy, will be brought to the point that at least part of what they have alienated the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and returned. Unfortunately, we often remember thousands and thousands of workers with indignation today, and even brutal scenes of attempts to defend that property. Only in our areas in Sandzak have great economic operators, giants, and even those radical attempts of employees to preserve that property failed, such as finger cutting, nailing into their hands, etc. All that was worth, on which the present and the future were based, went away because, thanks to those who at that time of transition abused political powers and abused the impotence of institutions or not the wish of those who were regimes, to preserve what had to be preserved for future generations. That is why today we have as a consequence that young people are leaving us, because every kind of economic subjectivity has been destroyed and we are not ready to meet those challenges that lie ahead of us. We advocate that anyone who has acquired his property illegally in any way, who has acquired it by alienating whether state property, whether or not someone else's property, corresponds to that money, which he has misused, will be returned to Serbian citizens through various projects and through various programmes, in particular to those former gigans who, unfortunately, have not yet solved all their claims or connections to work, etc., at least in this way compensated, and that even if this late age experience any satisfaction of what has been done for decades, thanks to their dedicated work, thanks to their overtime at work invested as a provision for the future and as a provision for the survival of this people in this area. Unfortunately, much has been destroyed. This law should create frameworks and this law should process anyone who has misused any kind of political or other power to take or alienate what did not belong to him and that indeed ordinary people feel that this shift in our legal institutions is a kind of revolutionary victory of justice and the social status of every individual in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72129	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72130	Thank you, President. I have no objection to the adoption of any laws that are in the function of regulating relations and ensuring regularity in business, but as a person who is often in contact with farmers and visiting many villages, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you one question about the possible addition of this bill or the proposal of another law, and normally in the next term, which is robbing farmers on the basis of purchased, or taken, and unpaid agricultural and food products. So, from raspberries to wheat, corn, cattle, to honey. There's no day when one of them won't call me and ask what to do. In doing so, the owners of these companies leave virtually all companies with their obligations, form others in their own name or in the name of family members, and continue the same activity without fully meeting those obligations. That's one example. Another example is our irresponsibility in the congregation when we make regulations, laws. That's the case with the Public Service Tax Act. I ask you a question – how many electric numbers are not in function of television programs, and why are hundreds of thousands of these numbers paying a television fee, or public service fees? It doesn't look much on the monthly level when you look at it individually, but when you multiply the number of these numbers and the annual amount of these fees you'll see what the amount is. The basic problem is to insult common sense with such bill proposals that are soundly unsustainable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72131	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I've spoken as authorized and already told these yellow newly-compromised rich men what I had, Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72133	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72134	Thank you, Chairman. The law before the MPs today is the Law establishing the origin of property and a special tax and it is one of the laws for which citizens expect to correct transitional injustices. Citizens who are largely transition losers are hungry for these transition justices, and this is now an attempt, a pre-election attempt by the ruling majority, to respond to the citizens' appetite for transition justice. However, there is one previous question that needs to be answered, and in the light of the law, it does not exist, because if existing legal options are not used, what is now the guarantee that opportunities created by a special law will be used? If in eight years the current government has not done enough or almost nothing under the existing laws, and it could, why now believe that anything will be done under a special law, and it should be? What prevented the state from using the cross-checking of property and income provided for by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in 2002? Since 2004, public officials have had to report their assets and their incomes, and since 2010, giving incorrect information in order to cover up is also considered a criminal offense. Since 2009, it is legally possible to confiscate property in Serbia and impose a burden of proof of guilt on those suspected of illegally obtaining property without a standstill in legal revenues. So, what a special law is now passed, and that is that whoever is suspected of having acquired the property illegally is precisely the one who has the burden of guilty of proving that the property has been acquired legally. This is something that we had already had in special laws and, of course, long ago, it is possible to confiscate property acquired by a criminal act, so it was first necessary to answer the question whether for the absence of the application of provisions of existing laws for years ago the problem was in those provisions or whether the problem was in their conduct or simply in the absence of political will to deal with illegal transition winners who had acquired this transition profit by corruption and organised crime. Who else will be covered by this law? So these are persons: 1) found to be three consecutive years with an increase in assets and 2) persons whose difference between the increase in assets and the reported revenues is greater than 150,000 euros. These are two conditions that must be met. We will, in fact, only in a few years will we see who will be the "Serbian Sanader" and whether anyone will be. To remind citizens, the state of Croatia has therefore arrested and sentenced the Prime Minister for corruption and organised crime, precisely in an affair with a single Austrian bank mentioned earlier. We'll wait six months for a sublegal act, then nine months to form a special unit. It'll take time for the IRS and the judges to go through training. So after that, we will also have complaints from the Administrative Court, final judgments, etc., so that much more water will flow through the Danube to make pre-election promises that will be made in the campaign, that transition justice will be met, indeed, and fulfilled. That's what citizens should hear when they hear that in the election campaign, this authority is the first and only one to pass a law that will bring ultimate transition justice. So that's not gonna happen anytime soon. The public will not know whether or not and why a high-ranking officer is exempt from control, because control will begin with a previous procedure that will be envisaged in the annual guidelines that will not be publicly available and we will not know why some public officials from year to year do not enter the annual guidelines and do not carry out previous controls. So it's nice that some state officials offer themselves as the first subjects to check and strike this law, but it's better to have legal guarantees about it, and they're not in the text of the law. No period of control has been defined either. Thus, it is cited as a certain period of three consecutive years where there is an increase in assets, so it can be assumed, for example, that the tax administration of a public official will rightly control always those three years where legal criteria for law enforcement are not met. Keep going. Not every asset for which there is no evidence obtained illegally. The law does not say anything about the cash that the control entity, therefore the person controlled, could have had three days before the start of a three-year period which is the subject of the control, and then the cash legally owned during the controlled period, used for the purchase of the property, in which case there is no increase in assets, but there is a change in the form of assets and for the legal intervention of cash in the cadastrian registered real estate. So, in this case, there are no 150,000 euros in asset increases and does not fall under the provisions of this law. Besides, there are a few more problems with this law, which I'll repeat. So, a law that will bring some kind of transition justice to the citizens is needed. So here's just a question of whether it's this law, and based on these remarks that we have here, the SMS is convinced that unfortunately it's not. So we have provisions that say that the government will get, in our opinion, too much authority to prescribe the way in which the property is valued. It is assumed that the methodologies that the government will use in the asset evaluation process will be the basis for litigation and what has already happened to us may happen to us, that the convicted persons will later bring down the verdicts, demand damages, and that the tax then charged, in fact, we return to interest. The 75% tax rate itself is very interesting. She's unusually tall and as such she has the nature of punishment. It's good when legally prescribed sanctions are such that they prevent the perpetrator from repeating the crime or some new perpetrators from entering the crime at all, but if 75% was brought here, why wasn't 100% brought in? By doing so, all property acquired illegally would actually be taken away. Two more questions are being asked, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. Why will the BIA and the MUP check the workers of a special unit of tax administration from a security point of view, and at the same time do not check the employees of the Anti-Corruption Agency, who, by the nature of business and by the letter of the law, come into possession of information on the property of the highest state officials? So, in this sense, this law is a little out of line and, of course, there are no words in the final provisions on how to treat the procedures that have been initiated under the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in the area of cross-checking of property and income, so it is essential to assume that these proceedings are actually not and there is no and this is the answer to the question why nothing has been done under the existing laws and why it is believed that this so-called transition justice will arrive under this law. In that sense, SMS sees this more as a pre-election move by the government, so that in the campaign, you can talk about how you first and only passed a law that the former government has long promised, but the effects of transition justice for citizens will be weak and very delayed in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72135	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72136	It's not hard for me to say one more thing about the effects we've had in the past few years. The illustration is the best, I think, this year, the year before, I apologize, in 2019. Five hundred and eighty-four judicial convictions, condemning. So there are no acquittals, 584 convictions against corruption. This shows you that the anti-corruption mechanism system has been a long and complex process precisely because we have faced many problems since 2012 and here. I was in one period, about two years, co-ordinator of state efforts to co-operate with financial institutions and to set up financial action mechanisms to fight terrorism and money laundering, and I met a number of people, great people from the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, from the Tax Administration, from various agencies of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, the NBS, all those institutions that are struggling to establish a stronger mechanism of the Republic of Serbia. And then I saw that some areas were simply dropped in 2005, 2006, 2008. Simply, inspectors, for example, for the control of casinos, which were supposed to be in the IRS, these departments drowned in each other by some drowning 15 years ago. These people who knew they were doing the job, I'm telling you the most open, most pragmatic, these people went into retirement, went to other units of state administration, and we at one point ran out of qualified staff in certain state institutions dealing with specific and specialized areas of control, especially for preventing money laundering. What did we do? We did that first we wrote instructions and action plans on how to train these people and how to get these people into control processes. When we did, supported, of course, by a strong legislative framework, we were able to exercise control and bring our regulations into line with modern EU regulations and other developed worlds. So the point was to first create a mechanism that will cover the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which will succeed in defeating any corrupt process and that has enough power for all state authorities to have the capacity to do so. We are talking today about a law that will apply in a year. We want to have enough trained inspectors, 60 of them, who will specialize in this kind of property control. What we've heard, now I want to explain a few important elements of this law. So three years is just a trigger. We control the property, and if it appears that, at least for three years, at least 150,000 euros, it can be in one year and of course it is the first to strike those who have the most significant assets, but of course also public authorities. I've said it openly here, I'd like it to start with members of the government and members of our families, because property is easily determined. That's why we've done the unification of the mechanisms of various state institutions. You take information from the catastra about your immovable property, about every land, every field, every house, every property that's recorded in the catastro. You take data from bank accounts from all banks, other financial institutions where there are deposits, savings and other stakes of citizens, you take data from the tax administration on traffic, income, expenditure, paid taxes back so many years and you easily determine everyone's property. It was said here -- yes, but someone will cover up their property by transferring it to someone else's face. Well, then that other person becomes burdened with the burden of that property and has to prove the origin of that property. It doesn't matter who they take away from. If you don't have the origin of the property, whether you take the person A or person B, it's important you can subtract the property. And this isn't about the apriors of illegally acquired property. That's the answer to the question why 75%, not 100%. So, was she legally acquired? If there is a suspicion of illegality, then we include the prosecution and can take away not only 100% of that property, but other assets not covered by control these three years. However, you said one perfectly correct thing, we need to establish a mechanism in which Serbian citizens feel justice. We had a situation, unfortunately, that regulations were passed, that it seemed like some people would be able to completely rob powerful factories, do things during that period and go completely unpunished. Some will, I'm sure, get away with it because they've passed laws here that will allow them to do so legally, but those who have acquired the property in a way that they haven't paid the tax, that they've taken it from other entities or that they can't clearly prove their origin, will have to pay back some of the money. We may not in each individual case be able to prove illegal activity, but we will be able to prove that there is no basis, that there is no origin of property and take 75% of that property, which is one kind of justice and is one kind of wish that through this law everything that has been in some grey zone has been transferred to the budget, or to return to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And that is an important message of this law. So, as far as we're concerned, another thing is being checked by the Anti-Corruption Agency. It is safe to verify them, especially those who are managers of information, personal data of citizens, public officials, etc. Of course there's a possibility, you once you've passed the law and established the mechanism, each of the next authorities will be able to use it. Each of the following authorities will have the opportunity to establish this mechanism, i.e. to use the mechanism, i.e. any officer of the tax administration, who does this job, will have the right to establish assets based on the methodology. Now, what I agree with you, of course, maybe Mr. Sinisha Mali would give better and closer information, it's a methodology of asset valuation. It's something the Treasury will do. Fortunately, we have this time period of a year in which they will have to complete the process, but that methodology will also have to give very one, I hope that they will also benefit from the experiences of modern, developed states, how to avoid that being a later stumbling block, i.e. the subject of some judicial processes that will drag us into too long coming to justice. So that's the thing that's going to have to be done thoroughly and precisely. I hope that the Ministry of Finance, which essentially manages this process, will have the strength to, within a short period of time, which for a year is for such a big deal, meet all the challenges that the tax procedure in this law is envisaged. I hope that we will be as a state, as citizens of this country, satisfied with the results. These results will begin to apply in one year from the date of adoption of this law, but you will see that this mechanism, I am confident, but in this year, in the year until the start of application, will already give collateral effects, positive tax effects, more significant tax payments, which is the aim of the citizens paying taxes. When people pay taxes, they have nothing to fear from the tax administration. The whole point is – pay the tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72137	Thank you. You have a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72138	Of course someone will always get away with it. There is no law that brings ideal justice and there is no ideal justice and no one should be naive. But with regard to the achievements so far, 400, 500 rightfully condemning verdicts are a drop in the sea of Serbian transition robbery. If we have indeed achieved results in the fight against organised crime and corruption, then it is a wonder that Chapter 23 of the negotiating process that the EU, which regulates the rule of law, is going so slowly, with so many revisions of action plans and it is a wonder that it is not already in the close. With regard to the valuation methodology of assets that will be measured and calculated in a three-yearly arbitraryly selected period, and why it will be a cause for litigation which will cost the state almost certainly, the fact also says that in Serbia all estimates fall almost regularly in courts, whether it is an assessment of the value of movable assets, immovable assets, or, if you will, estimates of the value of actions in the purchase proceedings by small shareholders, where almost all of these estimates are signed by reputed authorised assessors, etc. They fell in the courts. That's why this is a very technical sensitive question. Finally, I thank you for your desire to be among the first entities to control the bill, but I keep saying, it would be much better if the law gives legal guarantees, not when it comes to you personally, but when all public officials are concerned, it would be much better if the law guarantees that they will be a priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72139	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72140	Dearly respected presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, the respected Mr. Stefanovic, dear colleagues, friends, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as regards the bill on the establishment of the origin of property and the special tax, I can say immediately at the beginning that I support this as much as possible and that this supports the Serbian Movement, headed by Bogoljub Karic. Many here don't remember, many are young, it was so-called. Known Tito's letter, back in 1978, about determining the origin of the property, so after him there was a letter – you have a house, you have a place back, and then we came to an unfortunate year in 2000 when the so-called. a democratic option, where there were 17 of them in the democratic coalition. What did we get in 2001? It was the typical blackmail of all businessmen. Speaking with then-Prime Minister Bogoljub Karic, as president of the Association of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Serbia, he proposed a set of 1,000 most famous Serbian businessmen, entrepreneurs who will voluntarily help their Serbia and each will give part of the money according to their capabilities. First of all, it was about the law that allowed you to get rich at the time, the law that allowed you to buy a factory for one dollar, the law that allowed you to buy a factory for five years, and then sell all possible equipment as old iron, and issue or simply leave the entire program of all of those factories that produced and which dealt with production and had a large number of workers. Normally, it didn't happen, it came clean, I can say, pure racketeering and I fully support it, a while ago the president of the SRS, Mr. Vojislav Seselj, spoke. The extra profit bill was passed exclusively for one company, for one man, for one family. It was the Karic family. So, out of 100% of the extra profits paid, 95% paid for the Karic family and 5% paid for Simpo and, I don't know, someone else was there. Anyway, that was negligible. It just didn't mean anything. How was it possible at that time for the finance minister to come and sleep on his aunt's couch and make an extra profit bill? Normally, about the robbery. How was it possible for a man to come, I'm asking this question on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of all of us, to be the governor of the NBS whose first working day was in his work book? That's why I welcome this law. A draft law by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which today is explained by the Ministry of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. This is good too, although I am always against any retroactive lawmaking, I am in nature against it, but here it is good and I think this law opens the way and the possibility of the Ministry of Finance to at least a good part of the ministers of those previous governments, from 2000 to 2012, respond criminally, not only to pay 75% of the taxes, i.e. They return also to pay taxes, but also criminal proceedings, because the Serbian economy has been destroyed. A hundred billion euros has been damaged by the Serbian economy. It's incorrigible. The entire Prince of Michael's street has become private and privatized through the so-called. The National Savings Bank. I, who have been in business for many years, for almost 50 years, and I was thrilled – they are being played National Savings and I thought when it comes to Serbs something national, it sounds very nice, big, confidential to all of us, and in any case positive. What happened? The owners of the National Savings Bank were the closest friends of the finance minister and the governor of the NBS and that unfortunate Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who simply did not interfere in his business and did not follow what was happening. In this way, selling the National Savings Bank's shares has simply led the entire Prince of Michael and many other buildings, capital buildings of historical importance, to become owners of some foreign companies. What else do I want to say today, hopefully, in addition to this proposal that the minister explained here in the Assembly? By forming the bank in Moscow, everyone says from Minister Ilic, I don't know, other ministers who were, Bubal and others, went looking for Serbian money in Cyprus. It was a big mistake. There were no Serbian couples in Cyprus, and when there were, it was with the knowledge of the state that we could buy the most basic for Serbia, and these were medicines, they were drugs, food, etc. The main money was placed in the bank, in Russia, in Moscow, formed again by Minister Dinkic with his other colleagues, ministers. There, each year from Serbia, it was carried out somewhere around $10-12 billion each year, euros annually. So this bank was brought to ruin, destruction, and at that time the governor of the National Bank was a lady who was later minister, I forgot her name, it doesn't matter. In any case, Kori Udovicki, you're right, was Mrs. Kori Udovicki who, without the government's knowledge, allowed a billion euros of Serbian money, foreign reserves to be in that private bank that that aunt formed on the couch, made etc. Do you know what a billion euros means? Mr. Minister, I want you to hear this, to pay attention to this sentence of mine, they have become legitimate rich men. Nobody stole that billion euros. She was there. With one percent interest on our National Bank, and they placed in Moscow at that time with 30% interest and here they opened a branch and that 30% of the money was transferred here to the bank's branch. So you'll never catch them, but I want you to know that it was like that and it can be investigated without being able to match. It's a legitimate money laundering, etc. Normally, they had power and I congratulate you on your courage. I repeat once again, I've never been for retroactiveness of anything. I'm here. It's got to be known here. It's got to be known. Citizens need to know exactly who he is and what he did, what injustice and what a terrible robbery it was. Believe me, the robbery and the privatisation in 12 years is worse than the bombing of Serbia. The greater damage has been done to Serbia, all financial flows have been destroyed, all businesses. Imagine their minister prided himself here in the Assembly in front of his prime minister Kostunica and said -- we were able to privatise 5,000 businesses for two billion euros. That's 40,000 on average per company. You can imagine what kind of hotels, what kind of businesses. Coming to power of the SNS and coalition partners in 2012 I estimate as one of the exceptional courages and President Nikolic and now President Aleksandr Vukic - to come and take into the hands of a state that was without any money. I will never forget when the oath was made here by President Nikolic and when we went to the presidency together. There were no carpets, no computers, they took everything, they took pictures of everything. And these people are running again today and they're offering citizens their perspective again. There's the most basic thing, Mr. Minister, I'd like you to try, if you can somehow see in the government to find them a job. They're people without a job, but "Madera" is full always, "France" is full, so it can be done. They're driving a nice, angry car. I'm sorry that our president's driving at the damage. That doesn't suit one president of a great Spanish parliament, but you're in the same position, but that's why those former ones who have managed this country for 12 years, they're Mercedes, Bentleys, Rolls Royces, etc. I understand completely when one of the really working businessmen pays taxes to this country, makes a big contribution to this country, drives in that expensive car, etc. It's understandable, but when I see them... So I welcome the proposal for a law establishing the origin of the property. I'm going to make my immeasurable contribution as a folk MP, as a man, as a businessman, as a beginner of this small economy, so that you can fight it and really, as our people would say, not by the grandmother or by the uncles. Thanks for the time. Good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72141	Thank you. I now declare a break until 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72142	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we continue our work. The word has the Soul Stojkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72143	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Minister Antić, with his associates, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, appeared to live on a high foot and to be a visible pile of property, without any known sources of income, has always intrigued honest citizens of Serbia, who live on their work and who make a fair living. Somehow, the eyes of the public have always been against the bearers of public functions in this country. I would now say that after almost two decades, after 20 years of every promise, it is finally on the agenda at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of the Law on the Origin of Property. I remember the promise of the regime, meaning the regime of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, which before 5 October promised Serbian citizens to adopt the law and to adopt the Law on the Origin of Assets, which they did not. In Serbia, there is almost no political party or group of citizens who at least declared themselves not to have adopted such an important law. Although opposition parties in Serbia have declared their commitment, they have decided, and the representatives of the Justice Ministry know it best, they did not engage in public debate, in a public debate initiated by this ministry, and in seven months only five proposals arrived, i.e. suggestions and opposition parties in the Republic of Serbia decided in 2019 not to take part in the adoption of such a law. So, they were full of mouths why the law wasn't passed, and when they were supposed to get involved in the very text of the law, they refused to engage. It is likely that no law can be praised by a long-term internship, by the interest of Serbian media, such as this law on the investigation of the origin of property. A long-term media internship, I'd say, without any results, everyone was promising, but no one's brought it in yet. Only by coming to power are we fulfilling the promises made to the citizens of Serbia and in his exhibition, the prime minister in 2016 cited the adoption of such an important law and after a public debate, Serbia finally gets the law, I would say the law against thieves, against enormous wealth on the back of the people, against enormous wealth and acquisition of property against the law. If someone had not increased their company's income, as Dragan Gilas did, where he reported income from his 619m-euro firm, the same gentleman in question had 25m euros in real estate, in apartments, business facilities, garages and houses, and that such a law existed would not have happened and he would have been arrested long ago. Now such property will be checked. The examination will be conducted by the Special Tax Unit of the Tax Administration for all natural legal persons and the state authorities will be obliged to supply all necessary documents and all necessary requested data. This special check is subject to individual property, if it increases by 150,000 euros over three consecutive years, over what is visible in the reported revenues. Introduces so-called. Penalty, paying special taxes of 75%. When an increase in assets is established, without proven income, a 75% tax is determined and citizens may say that it is justified to take away what has been wrongly acquired and that this measure is justified and that finally justice in Serbia is this law and satisfied. The basic advantage of the law is that so-called. cross-examination of assets. It is also established in the process of establishing assets, its values and origin that there is a reasonable doubt that a criminal offence has been committed. The tax administration unit is then obliged to notify all competent institutions in this country, and the prosecution and other competent authorities and police that will then take over all necessary activities. The tax administration unit also determines the origin of the property, makes an insight into the data shown in tax returns, tax balances, all that is necessary for a successful management of the company. This is compared with tax accounting databases and other documents and data, e.g. the ownership list in the RGZ and other data supplied by competent institutions in the Republic of Serbia. Also, when determining the value of the asset, the total assets of the natural person are taken into account and the burden of proof is now on that natural person. It needs to prove that the property is legally acquired. The Property Origin Act also uses methods to establish illegally acquired assets and is taxed at a large tax rate. This law is the fruit of the work of two ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, and I would say that it is a very important and strong anti-corruption mechanism that we lacked in our legal system. The adoption of this law sends a clear message to all those who illegally acquired property through various suspicious affairs and machinations, that the burden of proof is on them to prove how they acquired the property or will be taken away from them. This law also strengthens the competition, it contributes to the construction of the market economy, but also stimulates the payment of taxes from natural and legal persons, because they will now have an incentive to pay taxes and thus prove that they are legally available with their assets. I repeat, it's about a strong anti-corruption mechanism. You will now have no citizens in Serbia who are untouchable. All citizens will be hit when it comes to asset checks. The illegal wealth, the legal system has shown that it can be obtained in different ways, theft, kidnapping, usurpation, war profits, financial malversions based on a monopoly position, unpaid taxes, tax avoidance and taxi payments, illegal trade and other criminal activities. In order to prevent these phenomena, it is necessary to adopt the Law on the Origin of Assets and the Law on Special Taxes in order to be able to confiscate illegally acquired assets. By adopting the law, we will enable effective and rapid change and thus stop and prevent corruption in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, the adoption of the law will be met, I would say, one of the most significant values in our society, which is the satisfaction of justice, because all those who have millions of stakes will be struck, multimillion assets acquired in an illegal manner. I call on all my fellow Members of the People to support this very important law in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72144	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, Mr. Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72145	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the citizens of Serbia who are watching the television broadcast of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is a great day for Serbia, this is a great day for us, and for the SNS, it is a great day for words and all those promises that we made to the citizens of Serbia, and above all, the president of our party, President of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic, on the subject of that one day the Law on the Origin of Property will be passed, that in Serbia one day we will know who, with what money, whose work, what kind of work, acquired expensive villas, expensive cars, who and how do they earn money, who earns the tens of apartments, where did 619 million Dragan Gilasu, from the nickname "derikoza", the one of Boži Djelic? By no chance has the people nicknamed anyone “a derizon, ” nor will they assign any such nicknames to anyone. He said nicely that people share the fate of bees by piling up as if they were going to live forever. So both Dragan Gilas and all the criminals, the thieves around him, for 12 years, just piled up their government like it was going to last, i.e. their power lasts forever. They were dreaming about it, of course. Every dream experiences its end and its ruin once, and often when people have such big, dirty dreams as they had today, such as Dragan Gilas and his conmen, hohstapplers, when they wake up from that dream, it's usually very painful. It was painful for them in the past elections when, say, the yellow tycoon firm census did not cross in the city of Belgrade, when they passed as they did in previous elections, from presidential, parliamentary, province and all others. Politicians in the election go the way they treat the people. If they act arrogantly, recklessly, if they steal and kidnap when the people feel it on their skin, they get a shot from the Serbian Parliament, the province and local parliaments. So everyone will pass who does what Gilas and other thieves did from 2000 to 2012. When someone tells us he's rich in hard work, and that's usually said by Dragan Gilas, then we can ask him -- whose work has made him rich? He has been enriched by the work of all decent and honest people in the city of Belgrade and Serbia. He was enriched by the fact that we and all the other citizens of Serbia were poorer from month to month, year to year, and by the authorities that robbed and kidnapped Serbia, and were constantly talking about how some tycoon's assets, some rich people, should be checked for something he acquired. Never did any government, I remind you, before the SNS dared to bury so deeply towards the tycoons, to arrest a tycoon, to confiscate the property, to examine the origin of the property, to bring to the extreme the law on the origin of the property that will know who and how he has the money and how he acquired it. That's crucial, I'd say, in the coming years for trust between politicians and the people, that the people see through that way, let's say, keeping a promise by saying that they'll know where the fairy, where the car, from where millions in accounts, for the record -- you get illegally, you go to jail, you answer, you pay the state, you get kidnapped to the people. If you've won legal service, every honor of your master, the state will support it, hire people, raise wages, and the state supports it, and it'll always support and support it. If you take away from people, don't expect anything good, just expect the state's reaction and the strongest, the most rigorous possible by paying the fine and the fine and the prison sentence, but also the political punishment for yourself and your party by not having the trust of the citizens, and you won't get a chance to get back in power and take money from people. In the end I'll tell you one Latin proverb, the Latins were smart people and they said -- wealth changes character, but rarely when for the better. This is best seen in the case of Dragan Gilas and DS members. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72146	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72147	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, today we have before us a bill establishing the origin of the property and a special tax which aims to improve the efficiency of the tax system and prevent abuses resulting from the possession of assets by natural persons who cannot justify the legitimate incomes of that person. We were all witnessing the terrible period that Serbia survived from 2000 to 2012 when during the government of the state-run state of Serbia and its citizens were poor, and the tycoons and the highest officials of the regime at the time became unquestionably rich. Many injustices during DOS rule have been suffered by Serbia and many injustices have been suffered by citizens, an injustice that the current government at all levels has been correcting from local to republic for eight years. When we talk about the law itself, one of the positive things about this law is the fact that it specifies and directs the social objective of taxation, to reduce the differences in the material and social situation of taxpayers, and above all between taxpayers whose property is in line with the incomes they generate and those where there is disproportionateness. Of course, the proposed legal solutions apply to all citizens, with those whose property has been acquired illegally, corruptive activities that will thus fall under the special taxation regime. The basis of the proposal for this legal solution is cross-checking of assets. It is a special tax procedure that will be carried out by the tax administration, i.e. the special unit of the Tax Administration, which will be composed of teams of experts among which will be representatives of the MUP, the National Bank of Serbia, the Money Laundering Prevention Authority, the Corruption Prevention Agency and a series of other institutions that will help as best as possible apply the law. The Special Unit of the Tax Administration will determine the assets and the increase of the property of the natural person, as well as the special tax on the increase of assets for which the natural person cannot prove that it has been acquired in a legitimate manner. So, the bill will find all those with an increase in revenue between assets and revenues of more than 150 000 euros in cases where an increase in revenue has been applied in three consecutive years. Of course, this will apply only in cases where there is no indication that the property acquired is committed, since where such indications, the IRS will inform the police and the prosecution that will determine criminal responsibility. On the target of cross-checking will be absolutely total property of the individual, especially real estate, participation in legal persons, motor vehicles, water facilities and aircraft, savings stakes, money completed. The burden of proof of the increase in that asset compared to the declared income of the natural person will be on the IRS, and on the natural person will be the burden of proving that in a legitimate way the property has been acquired in the part in which the increase of its assets on the basis of the results of the verification is not in line with the reported revenues. Convinced that this law will significantly prevent the further illegal wealth of individuals, but also to a significant extent correct existing injustices, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party and in the voting day will support both this and the other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72148	Thank you, Mr. Bag. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, Mrs. Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72149	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today we have before us a bill on the establishment of the origin of property and a special tax. In fact, it's very brave today on the agenda to discuss this law, for the simple reason it's going to be a lot of resentment, there's a lot of tycoons or those rich people who won't pay taxes. It's unthinkable for me that someone in this country, devastated by 2012, is not paying taxes. Don't pay taxes, pay attention, man owns I don't know what in this white world and won't pay taxes. Well, how come he won't pay his taxes? The tax goes directly to the budget, so the budget is filled, excises, taxes, donations, and the budget builds kindergartens, schools, infrastructures and everything else, it's embarrassing. In 2012, when the SNS came to power, I mean the Republic level, it won in 2010 in local elections both in Vozdovac and in Zemun and in other municipalities, and as far as the Republic level is concerned, we went hard to fight corruption, we passed a lot of laws, there were amendments and additions to the law, and that's very good. Why? Well, because we have a responsibility to these people, and no one is spared. For example, in 2019, we made 584 judicial judgments, which is good, among other things, there are officials, and it should be so, so that's how it is. How are we going to root out corruption? He says, Mr. Dragan Gilas, one of the great tycoons, he says to himself that he is not a tycoon, on the contrary, such as the tycoon, he is only one ordinary man who owns 619,000,000 euros. So I would ask -- how is it possible that he owns 619,000,000 euros, of which only 25,000,000 euros in real estate, but we are going in line. On Gilas' claim that he was not a tycoon, that he had not enormously enriched himself using political influence, and we know that in 2007, Gilas only reported to his wife's house on Dadinj and car "sab" in 2003, as well as 70,000 savings, in 2016 he reported, and since 2013, he had not been in power, only in his properties 2,022,000 euros worth plus 4.500,000 euros for one building, and that is not 4.500,000 already twice as much, and so on. But that's what he's reporting. The truth is something different. It is true that there are only 25,000,000 euros in real estate, so I will go in line, but not like Ljiljana Malusic, God forbid, but data from the APR, as well as the KRIK Agency, for the record, KRIK is a network for crime and corruption research. Let's take it in a row. Location Vračar-Belgrade, Mr Dragan Gilas – one 90 square apartment, 200,000 euros. Let's move on. Gilas also owns a duplex in the attic of a building near the Temple of St. Sava – 185 square meters, 450,000 euros. Please don't interrupt me, I never interrupt anyone, and then we can positate, just so you don't defocus me. Next, Stari Grad, company Dragan Gilasa owns a four-bedroom apartment near the Student Square – 148 square meters, 298,000 euros. Old town-Belgrade, "Multicom Group" – 65 square meters, 135,000 euros. A two-bedroom apartment at the Student Square in Dobracino Street, Gilasova Company "Multicom Group", bought 120,000 euros in August 2014. Let's move on, Old Town-Belgrade, I'm warning you, I'm going to need an hour for all this, I really don't want to speak for an hour, I'm going to stop somewhere in a third, and we're going to talk about it further, "Multigroup" in July 2014 -- apartment 55 square meters, 116,000 euros. Vračar-Belgrade, again "Multicom Group" – 91 square meters, 190.000 euros. So then we go Vračar-Belgrade, also "Multicom Group" – 43m square, 103,000 euros. So it's not my story, God forbid, it's just the APR and the KRIK. Well then, Gilas's firm bought a one-room apartment at the St. Sava temple for 67,000 euros in July 2014. Then Majdanpek - 48 square meters, 16,500 euros. And so, my dear gentlemen, this is material, and I will continue to talk about it, which is why we are discussing this law today. Any, it didn't happen again. You know why he could do this, not just him, but all the people who don't pay taxes to Serbia and are enormously rich? Well, because they were passing laws to suit them. Thank you for your attention. I'd be happy to support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72150	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word now has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72151	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected to the Serbian Progressive Party-Alexander Vukic in the Serbian Parliament and I represent the United Peasants' Party. Like so far, I'm going to talk about all those problems, all those things about the small environments, but this law that we're talking about right now is a law that was supposed to be passed much earlier. It's a law that was supposed to solve all those doubts of those who came to power in 2000 and "freed" all of us from those social firms, from those companies that worked at the time, who worked during the bombing, during the war, they came in 2000 and destroyed it all in the worst way. After them, there was a disaster, and after them there were plenty of rich people. That's what they were talking about, that's what Mr. Seselj talked about this morning, all those negative things about those who destroyed our country after 2000. Right now, this time, this law comes on the agenda, a bill on the origin of property, because we need to know who has and where it comes from. Since 2004, I have been in politics in a small community and in the middle, where in my name and name I've always come out, to this day. Here, I'm ready to be the first to want all this checked out from 2004 to today, to check everything I had when I came to the post of vice president of the municipality, and from the seat of the president of the municipality, and now in two terms of the MP. I want you to check out all those properties that the ones who robbed our country are talking about, I want you to see all the things I had when I was a veterinary technician on the ground, to see what my family and my house have now. This way when I speak, I say it from the heart, I'm sure of myself, I'm sure of my family, because we're honest people, an honest family, and as a man, I want to be the first person to check it all out, what I had when I came to some function to this day, to see my father, to see my mother, to see my sister, my wife, my son, my family as a whole, and all those who are with me and who know me. It is the behaviour of a man who deals with politics, with the desire to provide better living conditions for people living in the country, living from the village, to support our agriculture, to support the development of southeast Serbia. I want to make an example of how we should deal with politics, not talk here about someone having planes, trucks during the term of office for a few years. Whether it's Dragan Gilas or someone else doesn't matter. It is important tomorrow that all those who have become rich in a way that is not in accordance with the law have to answer, not to the harm of citizens, not to the harm of small communities, not to the harm of small municipalities. So, it needs to be answered, right now we have an opportunity and I, as a member of the People's Parliament and the President of the United Peasants Party, will vote in favour of the bill, because I want everyone who's been in the elections checked out, won the post, got the trust of the people, and now they've come out as rich people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72152	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Now the word is Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go, Mrs. Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72153	We've been listening to promises of a law on the origin of property for over two decades now. It is good that it is finally in front of the MPs, and not only as a supplement, but the existing legal acts that regulate the area so far, but we are passing a special law that determines the issues of origin of property and prescribes a special tax. I want to say right away, because there have been a lot of controversy and criticism in the public that this law will be selective and will apply to politically inadequate and political opponents, absolutely that kind of resentment does not stand. The property origin law that we are discussing today applies absolutely to all taxpayers, to all citizens of Serbia who pay taxes. It's not selective, for years, more precisely decades back we've been hearing about this law as a legal act that is under the influence of the final stage, but unfortunately it's never come to the Assembly before today, nor has it been in the assembly procedure, nor has it been before the MPs. Therefore, anyone who has become rich after 2007 and has illegally increased his assets will have to prove the origin, that is, the way in which the property is acquired, while the burden, or responsibility for proving the increase in assets, will fall to the tax administration. There was also controversy in the public on whether it was necessary to pass a special law and address the issue or to improve the existing Tax Procedure Act. A special law was to be passed because, as a society, we need zero tolerance for corruption. I believe this law will be one step forward in the fight against corruption. I will not mention, in particular, all the members and points and all the intended promotions and already existing acts that will also be applied under this law, as my colleagues have said. Without a doubt, this law has been more than necessary and the SDPS will definitely support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72154	Thank you, Mrs. Mihailović Vacic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, have been here for eight years now, the SNS regime has promised to pass a law establishing the origin of the property. After eight years we've been waiting for this to finally get into the process, I wouldn't say the law, because there are 29 members, he's stepped on one three sheets of paper, maybe it's better to say a bill establishing the origin of the property. If it took you SNS experts eight years to write 29 members, I wonder how long it would take you to apply this law and it would give any results. First thing I want to know is, since you've talked a lot about Gilas' 619m euros, Solak, Miskovic, the tycoons, is that finally the law that you're going to take away from Gilas, the School of those 619m euros they took and kidnapped? Is this law referring to Miskovic and what is your assessment of how much the state will benefit from it when this law is applied? Secondly, the very interesting question is, does this law apply to purchased diplomas? So, to explain to me, in accordance with the law, will purchased diplomas be able to be considered property and illegally acquired property? You know, when someone goes to college and graduates, the diploma is a diploma, but if you buy it for 500, for 1,000 or how many euros, you know better who bought your diplomas, then there are grounds that this diploma is considered property law, to see if you'll take maybe 75% of the degree from these experts that don't act in accordance with the advice of Serbian President Alexander Vukic, who said -- brothers of progressors, rip it out in time, don't come under the law and check, but if you tear up in time then as if there was nothing. I'm not asking for myself, I'm asking for all your Nikolics, for all your Markovics, Arsics, etc., who were getting diplomas, you know how. Secondly, we have a minister, for example one, I'm talking about Zorana Mihajlovic, who only once spent more than 10,000 euros on underwear during a purchase in New York City. Now, will you count your underpants to the ministers and know when someone spends enormous sums of money can be spent on different things both on trips and on underwear and on many other things, on dinners. You know, the same minister, she was celebrating in Hayat, as I remember with the American ambassador. You know, it shows that someone who spends a lot more of what he earns, and she doesn't earn anything on the property card, because she doesn't even receive a dinar from the government of the Republic of Serbia, only on Megatrend, but the problem is that she still spends it, and Megatrend hasn't paid her salary long ago. Thirdly, you already have a tax avoidance as a criminal offence and a criminal offence where, for significantly less amounts, a significantly higher penalty is threatened, not only by cash, but also by prison. Do you use this law to make it practical for thieves? Do you release thieves, tycoons, criminals, those who don't pay taxes? You ablimate them and practically prescribe significantly weaker sanctions than those already in existence in Criminal Law. Another big problem is that this is the creation of a systemic basis for corruption. When you give a group of people who are going to be in that tax administration unit that they're going to evaluate how and who they're going to take to processing and where they're going to be made likely, it's a legal formulation that there's a one-off and illegal increase in property, he has the freedom to call someone and say, listen to a friend, instead of 75% tomorrow, you can pay 20%, 30%, 40%, 40% today. That's much more favourable to you, so let's just say that it's unlikely that there's been an increase in assets. There's a lot of things. So, the question is, exactly who exactly is this law on? I don't think any tycoon here is going to fit. Maybe a couple of bar singers singing at the wrong pre-election song, but nothing serious. That's absolutely certain. It would be good to say how much you expect people to be processed under this law and to see how much it will benefit the Republic of Serbia based on the budget of the Republic of Serbia based on the application of this law. In the assessment of the financial resources for the implementation of this law, I expected you to say in the first year to charge, for example, 50m euros, in the second table, in the third 300th and that you will take the job seriously. But instead of budget revenues, you plan only budget expenditures based on the application of this law. For 2020, a hundred million and 500 thousand dinars, for the year 2021, 121 million and 200 thousand, for the year 2022, 121 million and 200 000 and four more million for those three years for the training of judges of the administrative court. In total, gentlemen dear, for the application of the law in the first three years, 344 million and 900,000 dinars, or three million euros. Threem euros in Serbian citizens' pockets instead of tycoon plugs and in the Republic of Serbia's budget. As far as the law goes, you don't have to rush here, gentlemen. Sublegal acts will, they say, be brought in six months, and the manager of the tax administration unit and the people for the relationship, according to this law, will be appointed in nine months, so at the end of this year, which means it can only start working somewhere in 2021, but then there remains a question of how you will spend a hundred million, or, excuse me, 100,500,000 dinars. In order for the citizens to hear that, for the first year already, you are planning to get software in the amount of no less than 36,000,000 dinars, more than 300,000 euros for software that will allow you to know what. So this is not the law to get the money back in the pockets of Serbian citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is the law again for you to profit, to profit people close to the regime, to profit your companies. So, look, you're already 300,000 euros for software... What, he doesn't have enough sense in Serbia? Is that relying on domestic experts? Is this law going to fall under, for example, the company of the woman who was the secretary of state until yesterday and after two years her private firm began to provide the buildings of the MUP? We're the only country on the planet where private security and private companies provide the MUP buildings for more money than it was paid to the cops themselves. And you expect someone to believe that you are truly fighting corruption? Finally, here I expected Mr. Antic to come forward a little while ago, you were a little harshly criticizing Gilas as the thief stole 619,000,000 euros, so, here, Alexander Antic was his right-hand man for four years. Or longer something, Mr. Antic? So let's hear what he was doing while Gilas was stealing, whether he was holding a candle, what he was doing, let's hear a little bit more about that relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72156	The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72157	I'm gonna tear up all my diplomas and that's no problem. It doesn't matter, I'll tear it up, I'll listen to Mr. Sarovic, I'll tear up all my diplomas, but Serbian citizens should know that the only man currently in Serbia who has been proved to have forged a diploma, Mr. Miroljub Ignatovic. At the time I was a member of the SRS, he was the secretary of the SRS City Committee headed by Nemanja Sarovic. It's the only man who's been proven in court to fake a degree, if I'm not mistaken, the University of Lomonos Faculty of Physics in Moscow. I'm gonna rip out all my diplomas, just look in the mirror first, so for what you're accusing others of, ask yourself a little bit what you're doing. I think this is about an absolute ignorance of what the bill says. It's not the point here to take away property. The point here is that the state wants to determine that you have huge assets, and your incomes are modest, or insufficient, to acquire that property legally. If the state determines the disproportionateness between the assets and the incomes you have reported to the tax administration, it is not the essence of taking away property, but of collecting a special rate tax of 75%. Of course, Serbia's budget will make significant contributions year by year. This isn't about criminal responsibility. What Mr. Sarovic said now, he said, about an hour ago at a press conference, Djordje Vukadinovic, who said he would honor journalists, will pay for lunch in "Madera" if a Serbian citizen is convicted under the law. It doesn't say that in this law. This isn't about criminal responsibility. This is about when the tax administration determines, that is, this special tax administration unit, when it finds that there is a discrepancy between the assets and the incomes you have reported, that you pay the tax, and criminal responsibility is provided only for officials who work in the tax administration and who actually come into a position not to apply this law. I would beg fellow Members of the People's Parliament, repeat, tear up all my diplomas, but since they say the law has stopped on three pages, it's not hard to read, so that you can see what it says.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72158	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Minister Aleksandar Antic also has the right to reply, has Nemanja Sarovic. Good, since the minister did not report for the replica, then Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72159	Mr. Martinovic, some of you may have forgotten, but during the time you were a Serbian radical, you were just accused of being a plagiarist and of plagiarizing your own work and of teaching the same work under different names, publishing on different sides and thus gaining...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72160	Comrade Sarovic, speak to me, not directly...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72161	Absolutely, as Mr. Martinovic spoke to you. (Alexander Martinovic: That's why I'm going to rip out my diploma, that's right, that's right. So if you don't think it's a problem for ministers and MPs to be the ones who have fake diplomas, who have fake PhDs, to be the president of the Republic who has a fake college degree, then that's what he says about you. The problem is, gentlemen, to give you one piece of advice, the problem is that you've been buying diplomas of serious colleges, buying economics, buying Legal, so when someone asks you something, you have no idea. Next time anyone buys a diploma from you, buy a nice DIF diploma, so when someone asks you what you've studied, you do a couple of joints, a couple of pushups, and you say, "Here you see that I've studied." It's much better for you, and it'll be much easier to prove that you've studied. The other thing, I'll read a concrete crime. So now you're saying to yourself, Mr. Martinovic, that no one will criminally answer under this law. Well, that's what this is all about. You will now subtract someone 75% of the property acquired against the law. In accordance with the existing law, it says - who, in his or her intention to avoid paying taxes in full and in part, gives false information on bankruptcy incomes, cases, and other facts, etc., and the amount of the obligation to avoid the payment of 500 thousand dinars and will be punished by a prison of 6 months and 5 years and fines. If the amount exceeds a million and 500 thousand dinars, then the unsub will be punished by a prison of one to eight years and a fine. This shall apply from 1 January 2018. This is the law you've passed, but you don't apply it. The third position says – if the amount of the liability of the 1st member whose payment is avoided, exceeds seven million and 500 thousand dinars, 60 and couple thousand euros. He says, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of 3 to 10 years, and you predict an amount of more than 150,000 euros, only to take three quarters of it, which is illegally acquired. Is it harder to sanction someone being sent to prison for three to ten years, and to take away everything or to take away only three-quarters of them, without a prison sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72162	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Right on the line, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72163	Besides saying I'm going to rip out diplomas, work both joints and abdominals, but Nemanja Sarovic has to show me how it's done first. You, Mr. Sarovic, don't understand that this is about two completely different legal situations. You, in a desire to discredit everything the President of the Republic, the Government of Serbia, the Resolute Ministry, the Assembly majority, do not see two different legal situations, which each other does not exclude. One is a legal situation when you tax evasion, no one will be amnested by criminal responsibility for tax evasion. It's a legal situation. Another legal situation is the legal situation which is now regulated by this bill, which is that a special unit of the Tax Administration is tasked with determining whether or not there is a proportion between the assets you own, whether they are bank deposits, whether they are real estate, vessels, aircraft, etc., so if there is a disproportionateity, then you will be required to pay a special rate tax of 75%. But even though you pay a 75% tax, it doesn't amnest you out of criminal responsibility if you have, eventually, committed a tax evasion offense, so you didn't report a tax or you didn't report the amount of tax you were obliged to report. So what you just said has nothing to do with this bill. This bill should, in fact, help Serbian citizens to determine that we have all seen together since 2008, so that it is possible that someone in the IRS, the Anti-Corruption Agency, or any other state body, should report that they have only a salary in the right amount, and on the other hand they have villas, have several apartments, have luxury cars or have some other property that is obviously disproportionate to the revenues they have reported. Is that real in Serbia? There is. Has there been a need so far to determine how man has come to such possessions? Yes, but no one had the courage to deal with this. Why? Because this is a very sensitive matter. The Serbian Progressive Party, officials of the Serbian Progressive Party, members of the Serbian Progressive Party, when the law begins to apply, no one will be able to guarantee that it will not come under the influence of the law. Why did the Democratic Party not want to pass this bill, that is, this law? Same reason they didn't want to pass the missing babies bill. It's not the problem of missing babies that started today. Today I'm listening to a press conference for Aleksandra Jerkov, who is about to start crying because the bill on solving missing babies' cases is bad. Who stopped them from passing that law in 2000? No one was stopping them. Who prevented them from passing the law in determining the origin of the property? No one was stopping them. But what prevented them? Fear of their officials, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic and everyone else. That is the difference between the Serbian Progressive Party and the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72164	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72165	Mr. Martinovic, you have no problem with me, you have a problem with facts. You're saying you're dealing with something nobody dared to deal with. What are you dealing with? I asked you if this law would affect Gilas' 619m euros, which you talk about every day? Yes or no? Will it affect or won't it? (Alexander Martinovic: Yes. He won't. So, you're not making a law against Gilas, you're making a deal with Gilas. Will it affect the schoolboys? Will it affect Miskovic? (Alexander Martinovic: Yes. He won't. You guys talk all the time and you do the other. You have convinced us for days that Cosmajac is the largest drug lord in the Balkans. In the end, they filed criminal charges for inciting a geometer to abuse its official position. Is that true? That's right. Shame on you. (Alexander Martinovic: Shame on you! ) The largest drug lord in the Balkans, in your own words, you are only chasing to encourage a geometer to abuse its official position. Well, what kind of state is this, what kind of regime is this, how incompetent are you, how corrupt are you, if that's how you work? That's the question you need to answer. You say he doesn't rule out criminal responsibility. Well, can you acquire more than 150,000 euros in three years without legal coverage without breaking the law? He can't. Absolutely not. Third. Don't use the President of the Republic all the time, someone wants to disqualify him. Did he write this law? Are you all so incompetent that everyone in the state is doing it? Why do you keep mentioning him? Like the other day, he says, they told us we were traitors. No one mentioned the traitor. Perhaps your conscience is whispering to you, Mr. Martinovic. Besides, if we're talking about who said the most that Vukic is a traitor, I don't know anyone on the political scene who said it more than once than you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72166	Thank you. The word has Dr. Alexander Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72167	Mr. Sarovic thinks he knows everything and is directed at everything. Mr. Sarovic, another procedure is being conducted against the Cosmic, and it is due to tax evasion. Because the procedure is under way, I can't give you the details. Just so you know, the proceedings are being conducted in front of a court in Sremska Mitrovica. So we'll see how that Cosmack gets through in the end. As far as this question is concerned, is this law going to come under the influence of Gilas, Solak, etc. Anyone who fails to prove that the property he has corresponds to the revenues he has reported to the competent state authorities will come. In that sense, under the law's influence will come more or less all those who run the so-called today. The opposition in Serbia, and Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Dusan Petrovic and everyone else. What you said about why we keep calling on Alexander Vukic. This isn't about calling Alexander Wolf. This is about Alexander Vukic publicly promising Serbian citizens that this law would be passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that will indeed be so. We're going to pass this law this week. One more thing Alexander Vukitch said -- when this law is passed, I want to be the first to question whether my property corresponds to the incomes I have reported. That is why we mentioned Alexander Vukic, not because he serves us in the fight against you or anyone else, but because this is the political promise of the Serbian Progressive Party. This shows how different the Serbian Progressive Party is from the Democratic Party, because the Democratic Party has always taken care not to pass laws that could possibly be applied to it. They and when this Rules of Procedure were brought, which you often mention, they thought they would be in power forever, and the Rules of Procedure wrote so that it corresponds to the Democratic Party. Now that they've come to the opposition now, all of a sudden, it's no good for the Rules of Procedure. When they passed the Law on the Selection of MPs, they also thought they would be in power forever. Well, when they were in power, the Law was great, we had an ideal political system. When they went into opposition, we do not care for any law that exists in Serbia, which concerns elections, neither republican nor local. This law is proof that the Serbian Progressive Party is not afraid of an absolute court of citizens and under the influence of this law you say who will come, everyone who cannot prove that the property they have reported corresponds to the revenues they have also reported to the competent state authorities and as soon as the disproportionateity of the mechanism provided for by this law, which is not a criminal liability, because it is prescribed by the Criminal Law, but by paying a special tax at 75% rate.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72168	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72169	According to Mr Martinovic - they differ from the Democratic Party because the Democratic Party was good when they were in power, and they don't care when they are in opposition. And secondly, he says, they differ by the fact that the yellow Law on the choice of MPs was good when they were in power, and they were not good at being in opposition. (Alexander Martinovic: Well, yes. ) Here, says Martinović – Well, yes! So, what makes you different, black Martinovic? He is also a good Rules of Procedure to you when you are in power, and he was no good to you when you were an opposition. (Alexander Martinovic: It is not true. You just proved once again that you are ideological clones. You're not even a millimeter away from the yellow company. (Alexander Martinovic: It is not true! Eight years you've been using the Rules of Procedure. Eight years you've been using their Rules of Procedure. Well, if it wasn't good in 2008, how is it good in 2020, and democracy progresses, the golden age lives on and on? A second little more important question, Mr. Martinovic. You're saying there's another crime against the Cosmic, and that's for tax evasion? (Alexander Martinovic: That's right. ) Here, he says Martinovic again. That's right, and he doesn't know what he's saying. That's what you do when you're driving a rabbit, and you're pushing out some bigger animal in a heifer. Where did you get the details of the case, Mr. Martinovic, so where did you get the details of the case against Cosmajca? Who are you? (Alexander Martinovic: I've been informed by Laufer. Laufer told you? No, you've privatized and destroyed all state institutions, so people like you have access to individual criminal proceedings. People like you decide. You are powerful, Mr. Martinovic. Well, you're the same as those of the DS you say -- they thought they'd rule forever. What do you think? What does that passion of yours and yours show, but that you are the same as the yellow ones?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72170	Thank you. He's got a word for it. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72171	The most people who understand yellow here seem to be Nemanja Sarovic. I have paid more than 3,500 euros on behalf of the DS, and I do not think there are any MPs who have been punished more than I have in the period from 2008 to 2012. (Philip Stojanović: Yes, there is. There isn't. There isn't, Philippe. Here, if you can find me an MP... There isn't. (Philip Stojanovic: I'll get you the list. Bring it. But it's not about the application of the Rules of Procedure, it's about abuse of the Rules of Procedure. This is about me, but not just me, after all, and Nemanja Sarovic and some other SRS MPs, being told the reminders as soon as we press this key and start talking. As soon as I say - ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a reminder, and another warning, etc. But it's about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. There are no such abuses of the Rules of Procedure now. As for the procedure against the Cosmic, never, Mr. Sarovic, boast with your ignorance. It's no problem to know there's a procedure going on. I have an obligation not to give details of the procedure because the procedure is under way. I'm just notifying you, and it's not, after all, a secret. You could have found out that you were a little bit interested, but you caught some geometers and some catastrophe, and you think there's the whole truth about the Cosmic. It's not. You need to take a little interest in matter if you want to rule it. So there's a criminal case against the Cosmic. We'll see when the criminal trial is over how this whole Cosmic problem is gonna end. As far as this bill is concerned, let's say once again – no one had the courage to put this bill in the process except for the SNS, as no one had the courage to deal with the problem of missing babies. The problem of missing babies isn't since yesterday, the problem dates back to 30, 40, maybe years ago. We now have a bill that may not be liked by someone, but it is a fact that we have the political will to solve this problem, just as we have the political will to resolve the issue of where you come from, and you reported a salary of 70,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72173	I'm done. We just had such a case with Dragan Gilas, that he only reported the mayor's salary, and suddenly it turns out that the man in his bank accounts has 619m euros, that he has accounts abroad, that he has huge properties, etc. That's what this bill is all about. Once again, this law will in no way derivate anyone's criminal responsibility, as tax evasion remains a crime in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72174	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Don't be angry, Mr. Risticevic. I deliberately let a little more of each other's colleagues replicate each other, it was an expert debate. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. I'd like to finish. Nothing Martinovic offended you, he correctly discussed it. I'd give Alexander Antic a chance. Minister, here you go. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic throws out of place. Mr. Sharovich, I've given you five lines... You've dominated the same measure, really. The word is Mr. Antic, Minister. Let's give him a chance. Thank you very much. Minister, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72175	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in a long time ago, it couldn't have been like this for five circles of replicas. At least I, Sarovic, didn't give. (The Belief of Radeta: This when he was in power before. I, Sarovic, never gave it up before. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I deeply believe that the vast majority of Serbian citizens support the adoption of this law. The absolute majority of Serbian citizens support this law because this law, above all, brings what they have long sought, has waited for a long time, and that is justice. The government's task and the task of MPs, of course, is to turn that justice into a quality legislative project, a legal solution, to regulate procedures, to define deadlines, to bearers of functions, to implement such a single legal solution, and this law has succeeded in one very simple way in a relatively small number of members, but very readable members, who do not cloud the essence, to arrange precisely all these procedures that need to be, I repeat, to resolve justice. And he's right about Dusica Stojkovic and Bojan Torbica and Ljiljana Malusic when they put justice first here. On the other hand, I deeply believe this law is non-selective. Mrs Natasa Mihajlović Vacic spoke of it, I deeply believe, in an extremely valid and quality way. This law defines clear procedures and defines its full transparency and non-selectiveness and clear procedures to which it applies and who can come under the influence of this law. Also, those MPs are right to say that this is a significant day, a great day, and it took a lot of time, strength and courage to pass such a law, and it took courage and strong political will. I think that those who earn very rudely and respect this law do not understand this dimension because, as a consequence of lack of responsibility, they do not realize how much courage and political will it takes to pass such a law when it even protestes against this law, and the opposition that does not see that it has one motive, except to say – bravo and finally to adopt such a legal solution, because this opposition, which, throughout the entire political life in Serbia, has been in the opposition structure, should support a law that should littlely comb through all these ruling structures backwards for years and possibly assess whether there have been any illegal behaviour and illegal acquisition of property by state officials. This law was essentially anti-corruption in itself and, above all, in that first interaction it turned to political elites and therefore, I repeat, it needed political courage and that political courage was also held by President Vukic, of course, in the first place by the Serbian Progressive Party, but I deeply believe the other political parties that are part of the government and the ruling majority, and the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Unique Serbia and SDPS and the Movement of Socialists and PUPS and all those who will vote for this legal project. I am grateful to everyone for supporting this legal solution. Of course, I understand that the opposition has a need to make objections to the law and that's part of democracy. I don't understand that such a law of these objections can be in a valuable sense and essential. They can be technical, and I would understand that they are in a function of repairing this legal project, but to question what this law is passed and to make that kind of fog in front of citizens' eyes is really unnecessary because this law, in a very simple and effective way in Article 11, defines that it is about immovable things, apartments, business buildings, rooms, garages, land, financial instruments, stakes in legal persons, equipment for carrying out independent activities, motor vehicles, crafts, aircrafts, savings roles, almost money and other property rights. So, everything that's in an asset and valuable sense, it all comes under the influence of the law. Who comes under the law? Anyone who can't prove the way he acquired the property. Who's law enforcement? It is very clearly defined and then one question is asked for which I really cannot find an excuse – why is it necessary for the application of the law and why are deadlines needed for the start of preparation? Of course, when a new body is introduced to solve such a big question, such a fundamentally difficult question, of course it takes a period in which people who are going to do so will be trained and, of course, a certain logistics and infrastructure is needed to make this work real. You don't think that if you have thousands of people thinking about how not to report their assets in a quality way, how to cut budgets and taxpayers' taxes so you can fight them without adequate tools, without adequate infrastructure and logistics. Of course we need software to match all the data from all the bases, which will run one quality analysis of all that, which will follow. Of course it takes a highly trained frame to realize it. The frame will also be subject to all anti-corruption measures. The law stipulates that all people working in the process will also report their assets, pass security checks, etc. So, one very comprehensive set of measures that should, I repeat, be able to solve that one decades-old multigenerational problem that plagues this country, that simply a number of people are enormously rich and that it is not in line with their incomes. As a citizen, I absolutely support the adoption of this law and I believe that every citizen in Serbia who is in pain supports the adoption of this law. The president said he wanted to be the first, I think we should all be, say, analysed in relation to this bill and legal solution and support its adoption. Of course, I've heard here and some elements that are simply a complete misunderstanding. So we have all the laws we have and they remain in force. This is a special law that determines certain other procedures. The criminal law that defines tax evasion and the Article 225 you read, yes, it is absolutely in force, but it speaks of someone trying to tax evasion, and this law defines if someone has a house, so that they can even pay taxes, that they have to prove that the house has acquired it. If you're asking me what I was doing while Dragan Gilas was mayor, yes, I was the president of the City Assembly and I was wasting enormous energy to show and prove to some councilmen this simple thing, Mr. Sarovic, in the first place to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72176	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72177	So, Mr. Minister, the arguments you've made not only are legally justified, but they're epochal, I must say. So this is the kind of argument we haven't met yet. You're convincing us that the law is good, you said that we have the laws that we have, that's a really great range of legal science. Secondly, you said three times that you believed deeply in the law and that's the same pretty serious argument and you said – it's true that there are few members, but that's why they are very readable. You know, it's Mr Antic to the font, to the type of font and to the size of the letter, it's not that much to the quality of the law. Every law can be printed with a more beautiful, legible font, but that still doesn't mean the law is good. Second of all, you're saying you were sitting, you were the president of the city council, you were Gilas' right-hand man. Now there's no one from the SPS here, and I don't know that you're not and your current coalition partners might, since you first find out, you might know something that we don't know, you might have gone back to talking to each other, but you coalition partners are pretty easy to change. As for Mr. Martinovic, he's talking about how someone was giving him warnings and how someone was punishing him. Who's that? Gordana Komic? The woman you celebrate the previous days, when you subjugated her to work in your interest, is also good and Gordana Komic. Now she is the mother of democracy, Micun is the father of democracy, you are all one big happy family together, but you do to Mr. Martinovic the same thing that Gordana Comic did. You've been giving me warnings at the board meetings because I've praised you, for saying you're the most beautiful face of the SNS, that you're an example of consistency, an example of honor, a beacon of democracy, you're a reminder to me. I open my mouth to yawn, you give me another warning. A few days ago, Arsic, I didn't say a single word. First warning, second warning, taking away words. It's your democracy. There's no difference between you two. You're ideological clones.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72178	Thank you. Dr. Alexander Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72179	I think it's pointless for this debate to turn into a personal war of mine with anyone. I understand that a colleague has been embezzled and is filled with some anger and anger compared to me, but it's his thing now, I'm not getting into it. A colleague doesn't understand, although he's a longtime MP, two business categories. One is a warning, the other is a fine. It is true that he was given warnings, but it is not true that he was given fines. He hasn't been fined. Milorad Mircic: How did they not? ) Milorad, you are a member of the Administrative Board, if a colleague refuses to confess, you admit it. Are the fines imposed? They're not even put on the agenda. So they're not even put on the agenda, I'm saying as chairman of the Administrative Committee, but it doesn't matter that much now. I would like to hear, when did anyone from the SNS say that Gordana Komic is the mother of democracy, that Dragoljub Micunovic is the father of democracy and that if I understood the word correctly, we subjugated her? Undermining someone means putting a yoke on someone's neck. Who did we do that to? We didn't do anything to anyone. What we have done, it is to accept Gordana Komic's proposal, as a national MP, is her legitimate right under the Rules of Procedure, that when the electoral list is handed over, there will be at least 40% of the less represented gender in Serbia's political practice, but not only Serbia. Forty percent of the less represented half are actually women and I don't see what's wrong with that. After all, the parliamentary group, which belonged to a colleague who had so bitterly criticised me, if I am not mistaken, voted in favour of the bill. The fact that we voted for one bill does not testify that we have declared anyone to the mothers and fathers of democracy in Serbia, we do not need it, and none of us in the SNS have done it, as you have repeatedly repeated something that neither of us has said, and that is that the EU has no alternative. That's what some others said, and you put it in our mouths. So, I end up, what we did is we showed one democratic capacity to accept a good proposal from someone who comes from the opposition, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72180	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. I'd close the circle of replicas. Nemanja Sarovic: Again on me. You'll probably get another chance now, so don't worry. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72181	Thank you, Chairman. I know that the previous speaker, but the previous speaker on the list of speakers, the most famous Vranianac with Dorichol, has a specific relationship with Dragan Gilas. I know he's not a bit happy about the fact that this law will also apply to Dragan Gilas, to Miskovic and to all other tycoons. Right away, I would like to draw his mind off the doubt, the chairman, as he asked whether this law would apply to them, yes, this law will refer to anyone in Serbia who illegally acquired property. Mr. Chairman, I am also aware that this law may also apply to the previous speaker because of those 19,000 euros for non-existent travel expenses, which he charged in one of the previous terms. But it's for another debate. Today we are discussing a very important bill, a bill establishing the origin of the property, and this is a subject that has been present in public for a long time. Many have announced support for this law, many have declared that they have passed such a law, but they have spent years and years in power, and they have not thought to pass a law like this while they were in power. If anyone is wondering why Gilas's MPs are not present here today when we adopt, or when we are discussing this bill, so the answer is clear -- how can Gilas support such a law, when he is the first one in no way able to prove the origin of his property? How do you expect him to support this law when he can't explain where he gets 25 million euros and only in real estate? How can he explain hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros he has, especially if we know that he had earned about 74 thousand euros allegedly in the Czech Republic before politics? So, you come nicely from the Czech Republic to Serbia, you bring in 75 000 euros, then you become the director of that non-existent office of the president of the Republic, and then you become the minister of government, and then you become mayor of Belgrade, the worst mayor of history, you destroy Belgrade, you become an actor of countless multimillion-dollar corruption affairs, and then when the balance comes under, the balance when it's made, you become one of the biggest millionaires, one of the richest people in Serbia. Then it's quite clear why Dragan Gilas is against this law. It is clear why Vuk Jeremic, against this law, especially if we know he never explained his business and financial ties to that international criminal Patrick Ho, never answered the question - and on what grounds did he receive money from Patrick Ho? On what grounds did he get money from various embassies around the white world? Then it's clear why Wolf Jeremic is against this law. It is clear why Bosko Obradovic is against this law, especially if we know that from the parliamentary salary he cannot boast and fly and winter in expensive and overpriced places. He can't afford it from an MP's salary. Then it would be good to give an answer as far as possible. It is easier in that case to declare a boycott of parliament, easier to declare a boycott of the election, easier without any arguments to charge that there are no conditions for fair and fair elections. It's easier every day to plant and construct some kind of affair. It is easier to run a daily campaign against SNS and Aleksandra Vukic and to make some kind of called propaganda films, in which they insult Alexander Vukic in the worst possible way. All this is easier than running a real and responsible policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, taking care of Serbia's national interests daily and Serbia's citizens primarily. It is this law that, by adopting this law, we draw the line and show a clear and fundamental difference between SNS and DS, or all of these Dosmania regimes that ruled between 2000 and 2012, because this was the election promise of the SNS that we are carrying out today. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72182	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72183	First, Mr. Antic. I'm a little embarrassed, Mr. Antic, that this is how your coalition partners from the SNS attack you. There are no MPs from the SPS and they have abandoned you. I'm really wondering what's going on. They claim that you supported the worst mayor in Belgrade's history, Dragan Gillas. Now you say, Mr Antic, nothing could have been brought without you. You had the key to most of your hands. We know for ourselves how powerful you were, so, Gilas, so you're like his right hand. Let's hear what's true. You were at the time saying that Belgrade is developing enormously, that it is the best government in history. You're telling us the same thing today. I wonder, and I'm sure the citizens of Serbia are also wondering, should we trust you? Do we trust you with what you said yesterday, what you're saying today, or is it best that we don't trust you both? You say for a moment how along with the others who are right, Serbs Filipovic is right. Well, Serbs Filipovic also supported Gilas at the time. Right? Perhaps you know from that time when he was a member of the DS, when together you, Mr Antić, and Dragan Gilas, gave more than a million euros from the city register to the daily list of "Justice" which was read by the SNS. Is that true? Is that true, I will repeat, Mr Antic hears me, that you gave more than a million euros from the city budget to the daily "Justice", which was reported by the SNS and that payments have started since October 2008, since they were separated, so they started paying off successfully? You know, I also showed that documentation in the City Assembly and in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that Renata Radyuko, two last names, which was the city's finance secretary on all those payment orders, was being fenced so she wouldn't come under the law because it was totally illegal... (President: Thank you. Here, I'm done. I still have that complete file, so if you've forgotten, Mr. Antic, I haven't, I can bring you back to remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72184	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72185	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I respect your tolerance. Article 104(1) - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP whose member is not a member of the Parliament group, stating his name and name, function, etc., has the right to replication. I have no objection to what you gave Mr. Sarovic the replica, but he answered the line for Mr. Markovic's presentation, and he's been replicating the minister all along. If you gave him a replica of Mr. Markovic's exposure, then he should be replicating Mr. Markovic, not the minister. This is how the circle of replicas spreads, and this is how we who are patient here wait until the day of judgment to finish those replicas, because your replica is not one, is not the answer to the replica. You have five replicas. You two only last two minutes with me. Only for me are two minutes, the rest can be three minutes, four minutes. I respect that democracy and that sense of debate, etc., but don't go too far. I'm not asking for a vote, but to get some order into those replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72186	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Marian Risticevic: Well, I knew it was you. ) It might be best if I didn't let people speak, but we're in parliament, so I can't tell my colleagues what to say, but I can only make sure there's no insult on a personal basis or any other, which would endanger the reputation of this high house. Thank you for saying that the National Assembly does not declare itself in the voting day. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72187	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Nemanja Sarovic says I accused someone of supporting Belgrade's worst mayor. The truth, the chairman, was that Nemanja Sarovic, who strongly and spiritually supported Belgrade's worst mayor in our city's history, Dragan Djilas, from 2009 to 2012. Beware, the chairman, he would support him and after that period, but he did not pass the censorship in the 2012 elections, so he was not in a position to support him, but he supported him during the time when he was in the opportunity, when he was a member of his party's parliamentary group, when they shared the boards of directors and supervisors, he and Dragan Gilas. To make evil worse, it was a period when the Belgrade city budget was destroyed in a senseless manner. It was a period known for its numerous affairs, multimillion-dollar, corruption affairs, whose actor was precisely the worst mayor of Belgrade supported by Nemanja Sarovic. So, the Bus-plus affair, the Pazl City affair, an affair to install those underground containers, an affair to reconstruct King Alexander's Bulevar, was arrested by that city manager who was also supported by the previous speaker, and the affair, after all, the Bridge of Ada, the most expensive bridge in the world. All that didn't bother Nemanja Sarovic at the time. All this was not a problem at the time for Nemanja Sarovic to mentally support the worst mayor in Belgrade's history, and all for the administrative and supervisory committees to get her listeners into the board of directors' membership, and then the elections came and did not go to censorship in the next elections because the citizens punished him for it. Now, today, he supports the worst municipality president in the history of the Old Town municipality, Marko Bastac, Gilas's duo, Gilas' errandman, and also does not mind the great affairs that relate to Mark Bastac's character and work. It's not his problem now, so if we're making an analogy, then we can assume what the election result will be after the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72188	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72189	I don't know if I have, Mr Marinkovic, here's Martinovic and Marijan Risticevic, because I see they're the ones who determine what and how and then complain about how threatened they are. Maybe we should start a group called "justice for Mariana" and then all fight together for his parliamentary rights, which he claims are compromised. As you can see, even though these guys in the regime are talking about some kind of anger, I don't think there's a man who's given you more smiles and really is funny and is fun and, as you can see, I don't stop laughing. The truth is, it's not me who accuses Alexander Antic, who accuses the Socialists of working with the worst thieves, it's you from the SNS. Aleksandar Markovic, for example, lied here in a live transmission of Serbian citizens that he filed criminal charges and that only in Vracar municipality stole hundreds of millions of euros. It's in the stenogram. I asked then for Mr. Markovic to show at least one criminal record he filed at the appropriate time for these millions, in euros, theft. He didn't take any. You're saying that Dragan Gilas stole 619m euros, but you're not processing it. You bring in the Act establishing the origin of the property. I was looking forward to it, finally this Gilas going to jail, finally getting that money back to the law, asking – whether it applies to him, so it doesn't apply again. That's your problem. You talk about Bastache, you say he's a thief, he's a criminal, I don't know what he is, but you don't process him. You are the most criminal-speakable regime that is incapable of processing anyone. That's your problem. You speak one thing, you work the other, and there are no results left behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72190	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The right to replica has a colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72191	I could have expected from MPs, say, Balša Bozovica, Milojičić or one of the DS MPs to be this sorry for the fate of DS officials at any level, in municipal, city or republican, but I didn't know there was such a regret about Nemanje Sarovic, and I really don't know how to explain it. So I believe that he is guilty because both Dragan Djilas and Miskovic and the other tycoons will find themselves under the influence of this law that we are discussing today. So I believe he's sorry. I believe that he tied himself to Dragan Gilas on a personal level, right, in those years of co-operation, and there was plenty of co-operation in the City Assembly. How can I tell you, this is not a fountain wish, now what Nemanja Sarovic would like, would Nemanja Sarovic like Dragan Djilas to answer or not, it is completely irrelevant, to say, in this debate. When it comes to the second issue, which is the question of the 19 thousand euros, again, the chairman, I can tell you that I am concerned that this law will be struck, or that this law will also be the case of the previous speaker, or the 19,000 euros that he illegally charged. The man illegally charged for the non-existent diaries, showing that he traveled every day to Vranj or wherever in Serbia. So I urge the competent authorities to investigate this occasion and this phenomenon, that case. Did he legally acquire 19,000 euros? One more thing, the chairman, you will see one legality, 19000 euros, problematic, illegal, and on the other hand 19 thousand votes, as the previous speaker won in the last elections in the city of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72192	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here sits a dozen colleagues, justice for their colleagues. If someone so insulting and slyly says – justice for Marian, just because I asked for these replicas to tear a little bit, not to last much longer than two minutes, as it says in the Rules of Procedure, that the replicas refer to the previous speaker, not to be replicated five, six times in a row, that we do not waste time, that every session costs, but that I understand the President's desire to allow dialogue and to tolerate it, but I asked for you to be unintentional abuse, that tolerance does not go too far and too far. The old rule says the best laws and the best rules are the ones to be implemented. I didn't write this Rules of Procedure, I wasn't even an MP when this Rules of Procedure was written, but I think at least some basic rules should be respected. We can't come in at one o'clock in the afternoon, make one 20 consecutive replicas, etc., then go home, and the same 10-15 people are sitting here in the National Assembly, no matter what group they belong to. I always see the same colleagues who are patiently sitting, etc., don't abuse any rights, especially not excessively, and we always have people who have the right to five, six, seven consecutive replicas and then go home, and we all, regardless of the parliamentary group that we're staying here for days, we're sitting. I'm asking you not to go too far with that tolerance. I understand the chairman's desire to lead the dialogue, etc., but not to be five, 10, 15 consecutive replicas, and to last four, five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72194	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I fully understand and respect your suggestion when it comes to replicas and I ask the MPs... Mr. Sarovic, I will allow you, given that your colleague Markovic has addressed you directly, a replica, and then I ask you to try to close the circle of replicas and return to the order of MPs according to the application for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72195	It's good, Mr. Milicevic, that you didn't come here on behalf of the SPS to end democracy. I was afraid, when they replaced the chairman, after my criticism that there was no SPS, but here it is now, Nema, there is now the vice president, going for better. So there's a lot that these gentlemen need to explain. If I understand correctly, they complain that there is too much democracy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that they are bothered by what little the opposition can say in accordance with this Rules of Procedure when you allow us. It's exactly the best possible indicator of the way you see democracy. A little while, Martinovic says -- if you want Sarovic to admit it, no fines have yet been imposed for this last takedown of words I have received. Not yet, you still haven't put it on the agenda, Mr Martinovic, and now I guess I should say -- see how powerful you are, how almighty you are, and how you decide whether the other MPs you say are going to receive your salary next month or not. It's not democracy, Mr. Martinovic. If you're a lawyer, if you're a doctor of law, if you understand anything right, you need to understand that there are 250 people here who are equal. I've never insulted anyone here, I haven't used an ugly word, I'm not a curse, but I'm trying to make a political, cultural, civilized life impossible for you in the Assembly, I'm trying and it's obviously working. What drives you crazy is what I'm saying, you can't take political action, and that's why you're punishing me. But what kind of hero is he who can't deal with a political opponent differently, but by hitting on his existence? There's no heroism, you're not heroes. If you were heroes, you'd end it, so you wouldn't break every time a line of replicas should be spoken by someone from the opposition, but you'd let attitudes face it. If you are so powerful, so educated, so dominant, so you would be thrilled, you would ask as many of these debates as possible to see Serbian citizens as professionally as you are, how good you are, how many laws are in your citizens' interest. But it's not like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72196	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Since you first spoke to me, that I came, as far as I realized I was suspending democracy, on the contrary, no. You know I'm always up for a democratic debate and a democratic debate of opinion, but I'd like to go back to what it is to be a part of the agenda, so we can face arguments here. So let us, however, return from the field of politics to a reasoned and democratic debate on the legislative proposals that are important. I understand your need, and that is your legitimate right, but you had a concrete replica on your colleague Markovic for a moment, you mentioned a colleague of Martinovic, who now has a basis for replication. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72197	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. And, please, since I will mention Mr. Sarovic, give him the right to a replica, since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the temple of democracy and that of democracy should also enjoy my colleague Nemanja Sarovic. Just one sentence about what he said, and Milorad Mircic is a witness. At one of the previous meetings of the Administrative Board, the agenda was established. There was no fine on the agenda for anyone, nor did Mr. Sarovic. However, my colleagues from the SRS were untrustworthy of me, so they thought I'd put it as an addition to the agenda, because I guess I don't have the courage to put the fines on the agenda. When that didn't happen, those people left the board's session. So I have no intention and it is not the essence of a parliamentary life that threatens anyone's existence. The money needs Nemanja Sarovic as much as I do, and the man has his family the same as I do, and it's not the point here that we're jeopardizing each other's existence. But I want to say something that is much more important, and I really won't look back on what my colleague Sarovic says anymore, because I think it's a complete divergence of this topic. I don't think the SRS is the subject of editing this law and leaving the SRS, I don't think the SRS has robbed this country in any way, there's no need for you to get excited about it. The subject of this law is those who have ruined Serbia since 2007, in fact, they have begun to ruin before, someone mentioned the year 2007. Since 2007, there has been electronic records of property and electronic records of tax returns in Serbia. That's why we had to take the year 2007 indirectly as a zero year which counts whether you acquired property in a legitimate or not. Otherwise, essentially, politically, we can talk about the illegal acquisition of property by 2001, when the Privatisation Act began to apply, and in some cases during the 1990s, because it would not be fair to say that all tycoons were created after October 5th. Some of them were during Slobodan Milosevic, so DOS took them over, and some of them produced DOS. But here is the essence, not in any party and not in anyone's name, but in anyone who can't prove that the property he reported to the competent authority corresponds to his income, whatever that man's name is. Of course, Serbian citizens know that these are primarily those who represent the opposition today to Alexander Vukic, and they are primarily in this Alliance for Serbia led by Dragan Gilas. And this isn't about simple tax evasion. In order for Serbian citizens to understand what this is essentially about, it is not Dragan Gilas who is a criminal because he has hidden the tax, but in our opinion, Dragan Gilas has violated the law because he has reported that he has the mayor's salary, and there are 619m euros in bank accounts. That's not possible to prove. And if he was paying taxes, he probably did, but the question is, where, which country and on what income? He couldn't have paid a lot of money for the mayor's salary. This isn't about tax evasion. I note once again, tax evasion is tax evasion, it's a crime, and this law will not have any of those crimes amnesty, it's about someone reporting that they're living on a salary, and there are five villas, 10 apartments, there are yachts, there's offshore companies, etc. They're not in the SRS, I'm convinced and I know it. You do not need to put that amount of anger on the SNS, but to have them in the DS, in Boris Tadic's party, to have them with Dragana Dilas, so there are too many.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72198	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Comrade Sarovic, I think we've made it clear that a colleague... . (Nemnja Sarovic: Did Martinovic tell me to give me your word?) () Of course, colleague Sarovic. Did you think I wouldn't allow you a replica? I just want to tell you that my colleague Martinovic made it clear that he wasn't referring to the SRS, but please, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72199	Mr. Milicevic, there is no need for you to translate what Mr. Martinovic said to me. It would be better if you didn't let him speak for four minutes and 39 seconds even though the Rules of Procedure allow for two minutes, and you're talking about respect for the Rules of Procedure. This is how the regime and regimes respect the Rules of Procedure. Another thing, Mr. Martinovic, you claim that Mr. Milorad Mircic and I were at the board meeting for punishment. That's not true, take a stenogram, let's maybe make a bet in front of the citizens of Serbia. Take a stenogram, here's Mr. Martinovic laughing because he knows he didn't tell the truth, if there's one single word at the board's session about it, here's to resign me or you. There were words about the Anti-Corruption Agency. I spoke and criticised that they did not employ sufficient numbers of perpetrators in accordance with the systematization. I think they've got 30% of their employees somewhere. If they hired everyone by systematization, they could control an incomparably larger number of entities in Serbia and the ministries, political parties, local self-government and public enterprises and everyone else, and that was exclusively directed at our discussion and absolutely nothing else. The problem here is that you are the one who gives the signal to the chairman, and you say, "After my announcement, give to Nemanja Sarovic a replica." No luck, no democracy. When it is due to be voted, the chairman presses the bell for MPs, and when it is to be given a replica, then Martinovic presses the bell for the chairman. What democracy is that? That is what is the fundamental problem in Serbia. As far as the law is concerned, you say it yourself. The law will not strike this one or that one. It would be good to guess. Who's he gonna hit? You're in no condition to answer. Your argument is – they are readable members, they are few, but they are readable. So what's that argument? Neither Gilas nor Šolak nor Miskovic nor any of the tycoons you speak of will touch this law. This is a colorful lie. This is a smoke mask. This is the fog you talk about and that you sell to Serbian citizens before each election. You know, for last election, you were selling subway tickets. So where is this subway now? You want methroom to go solve these corruption cases? Of course you won't, but you don't care about one lie to an old one with 10 new ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72200	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72201	Who will this law touch first? They're gonna touch Alexander Wolfiche. So he's the one who said he's going to ask for his assets first to undergo analysis from the point of view of this law. So you're right. Neither Dragan Gilas, nor Sollak, nor the Wolf of Jeremiah, nor any of them, shall touch first. He will touch, as you say, Alexander Vukic because he wants his assets to be examined, and then let the property of all his political opponents be examined, so let's see if Dragan Gilas, to bring it down to a language that the people understand, I didn't say that this law is legible, I don't know where you found it, but to narrow this down to a language that the people understand. Otherwise, the law is legible, but I didn't say it. Nemanja Sarovic: Antic said. Well, the man didn't do anything wrong, but I didn't say that. But let's bring this down to a language that the people understand. So, first we're going to examine Alexander Wolfich's assets. He was the Prime Minister's man, and now he's the President of the Republic, and we're going to examine his assets first. But then we will examine the property of his political opponents, who say he is a dictator, that he is a liar, that he is a thief, that he is the greatest criminal in Serbia's history, and these accusations come from people like Dragan Djilas, like Vuk Jeremic, like Balša Bozovic, like these DS people who have become rich on the people's coat of arms much more than anyone who has ruled Serbia since Serbia exists as an independent state. So that's the essence of this bill. We will examine the assets and Alexander Vukic, but then they will have to prove that it is possible from the mayor's salary to achieve a bank account of 619m euros, that you have several companies. How is it possible for Vuk Jeremic to receive from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin in the name of his so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called ‘Katarian embassy’? The NGO 200,000 euros and that after that same Vuk Jeremic tells Alexander Vukic that he's a liar, that he's a criminal, that he's a thief, that he's a bastard, that I don't know what he is. To examine Boris Tadic's assets, to examine the assets of all those on the other side. I repeat once again, you are not the ones who ruined Serbia. We can politically disagree, but it's not you who ruined Serbia, it's not your party doing robbery privatisation, you weren't trading for seconds on RTS, you don't have an offshore company, I know it. But don't present yourself as some martyrs who are defiantly violated by some political rights in the National Assembly. They don't violate anyone's political rights. After all, there's a lot more of you in this room right now than we do in SNS. You'll have every right to say whatever you want. But I want to tell the citizens of Serbia that this is about someone showing political courage, first on his case examining the property he owns, and then we're going to go after everyone else who's named Alexander Vukic, who says he's the biggest criminal in Serbia, so one day he's a drug dealer, and the other day he's a dealer, an illegal arms dealer, so his brother is this, so his dad is that, etc. So, first we're going to interrogate Alexander Wolficher. If the question is who will strike this law, first comes the blow of Aleksandar Vukic, but then will have to pass the law to all those who walked around Belgrade on October 5, 2000 in torn jeans and shoes, and then by 2012, they became the richest people, not in Serbia, in this part of Europe. I think only those Russian billionaires, who got rich during Boris Jeljeljin, can compare with the tycoons that were created in Serbia after 5 October 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72202	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72203	Mr. Martinovic, I thought this was funny until a certain moment, but I really don't think it is now. This isn't about any kind of, let me say, personal account, this is about whether Serbia will ever have institutions or not. You once again showed that you don't know what institutions are, that you don't know how independent institutions are made. Is there anything worse that someone who represents the law can say but, firstly, will question, so no law has been passed, no tax administration unit is formed to deal with, no manager elected, no people are not elected, they are not trained, but you are already saying that the assets of Alexander Vukic will be investigated first because he will. Well, that's where you lie with your shoulders, that's normal for you, I don't. That's what we're different about. Where anyone who is the most politically powerful in the state says - it will be because I want to, there are individuals and there are no institutions. Your follow-up, you say -- and after we find out that he didn't have such an increase in assets, then our political opponents will be struck. Who are you to determine what the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia will do? You're the one with the details of a criminal procedure against the Cosmic. Where did you get it? You don't have a chance to have, you're not a party to the proceedings, you're not part of the prosecution, you're not a judge. Where did you get that knowledge? You're not one of the lawyers, you're not on the Cosmic legal team? That's the point. You cannot from the position of government, from the position of the regime determine what some will do. Call an independent authority in Serbia to work. You are not even politically wise enough to say – we do not know, here is to pass the law and we will see what happens. By the way, you in the course of a principled debate, you already know in which order anyone will be struck by a law that may or may not be voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72204	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72205	I was just quoting what the President of the Republic said, and he didn't say it from the position of government, but he said it as a citizen, that he himself would apply, as possible under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and to say – please examine my property and determine whether it was illegally acquired. Tell me, which element of the government do you recognize in that? What element of political power other than the civil right to expose yourself to law enforcement? That's not what I said, that's what Alexander Vukic said and that's his inalienable right, that I'm asking to examine his property. Why is he looking for it? Because they're accusing him, him, his brother, his father, his mother, of being one mob family, and that no one in that family does anything but commit various crimes. Not to remind you that Alexander Vukic was being accused by those of this new DOS, that he knew there would be a bombed building in the RTS in 1999, and his mother was in that building the day the building was bombed. That's why he said he wanted his assets first to be established, to show that on the other hand people who lie facelessly and that, on the other hand, people who have been from 2000 and even since 2007, have systematically ruined this country and made themselves rich while the people were out of work, without jobs. You insist on one thesis that's crazy for me. There's no difference between SNS and DS, and in the elections, the people said that there are differences. Were there highways during the Democratic Party? They were gone. Is there any now? There are tens of miles of them. Were there any new clinical centres during the Democratic Party? It's not. Is there any now? He's got them. Is there a new school? Are there any new hospitals? Are there hundreds of thousands of new jobs? Do we have dozens of new investments every year? Is there a place in Serbia, but a bigger place that no investor has come to and hired citizens of the municipality? There isn't. Was that during the Democratic Party? It wasn't. There's an obvious difference. And what's about this law, so it's every man's right to ask for the law to be applied first, and of course the law will be applied when conditions are obtained, when people are trained in the Tax Administration, when software is obtained, etc. But we insist, it's our political right, you can't challenge us, we ask that the assets of Alexander Vukic be first established, and let those honest, like Dragan Gilas, like Vuk Jeremic, like everyone else who accuses Alexander Vukic and his family every day, then let them prove how and how they acquired their property. And you and I both know how they got it. They didn't get it the right way. Because no one can acquire 619,000,000 euros within a few years of their public functions. There's no job that can be done in a fair way and make a man so rich in such a short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72206	Thank you. Comrade Sarovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72207	Mr. Martinovic, you do not really stop astounding me and, I'm sure, Serbian citizens. You say - Alexander Vukic asked that his property be checked first, but he did not do it as president of the Republic, but did it as citizen of Vukic and you wonder where I see the mark of power there. Is Alexander Vukic the president of the Republic of Serbia? Yes, it is. Is the president the strongest parliamentary party with absolute power in Serbia? Yes, it is. And you don't recognize the markings of power anywhere. You say, citizen of Vucic. And where did the citizen of the Wolf say that? Did he say that in the living room, play cards with his friends and say that? If he hadn't been to a barbecue, maybe the same thing with friends or children in Cosmaj, so he whispered it in some bush, so it was magically found on all the TVs in Serbia? He said that as president of the Republic of Serbia. Are you saying he's some double personality, so now we have to watch when he's spoken as president of the Republic, when he's president of the SNS, and when, my God, he turns out to be an ordinary citizen? Since when do national televisions, televisions with national frequencies broadcast statements from ordinary citizens? Do you from the SNS parliamentary group, when an ordinary citizen says, he wants some law to apply to him first, then do you here as parrots? No, you convey the words of the President of the Republic. And if you talk about the political past what it was when someone once claimed, claimed this, claimed that, so did Aleksandar Vukic that Ivica Dacic had killed Ranko Panic and that he would get even with him eventually, so today he sits with him in power. You know, times change. As far as the highways are concerned, were there any highways during the yellow ones? It was. Is there more now? There is. But I'm starting to wonder what you guys were building so many highways when you said we'd soon have flying cars? Don't let us build in vain, better share all of those pairs of flying cars, and we'll fly through that celestial Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72208	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72209	You know what, some times it's possible to do damage to discussions in the Assembly, if they're not measured and they're not clear and they're not accurate. Let me tell you one thing, I repeat, the citizens of Serbia welcome and support the adoption and adoption of laws establishing the origin of property and special tax. I don't think it's politically wise to question this law in this way, in order to be interesting and to take a little media space. I did not realize that the SRS is opposed to exorcising justice on this issue, perhaps opposed to the way, which, from some discussions of previous MPs, may not have been quite understood. So I repeat, Serbia and Serbian citizens welcome the adoption of this law, and this law has been pending for a long time, and without any dilemma, it took a lot of political will, but also courage to adopt such a law. I am trying, without wanting to politicise, to understand in the best possible way the message of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to first check his property under this law, primarily as a strong support for the adoption of such a law. As a minister, I really thank the president for giving this kind of support and I personally give strong support, personal support to the adoption of this law. And yet again I want to point out once again and repeat what I said in my previous presentation, this law is not selective and this law is not targeted, this law is very precise. As interesting as Mr. Sarovic has been, in his desire to be interesting, my words cartoon when I say that he is read and readable and very clear and very precise in his small number of members, where he leaves no shred of dilemma, nor opens any possibility of manipulation in any member, he is absolutely very precise. It is very clear what kind of property it is and under what circumstances one can come under the influence of this law, with a precisely defined initial chapel to be the subject of this law. So, if someone has a maximum of three years of income in the amount of X, and their property is 150,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, greater than income, it will automatically be subject to this law. Everything is crystal clear, everything is very precise and everything is very clean and transparent. I repeat, the law is not selective, the law is not targeted. In its essence, it's anti-corruption. In my opinion, I am not the one who proposed this law, he does not throw small fish, he will primarily deal with these differences between assets and capital that, I repeat, over a period of up to three years have been created in excess of 150,000 euros and as such I believe that all parliamentary groups should support him. I am proud that, besides the president, besides the SNS, this law will support both the SPS and other parties of the ruling structure and SDPS Rasim Ljajic and the Socialist Movement and the PUPS, so I deeply believe that all those parties who insist on giving Serbian citizens what rights they have, which is that all citizens are in an equal position and that, on this issue, in a clear, non-selective manner, we get justice which, I believe, each of us expects.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72210	I thank you, Minister Antic. Comrade Sarovic, you want a replica of the minister's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72211	That's right, Mr. Milicevic, I want a replica of the minister's exposure because I think I'm the only Sarovic, Nemanja Sarovic in the O.R., and I don't believe there's another one, so I have reason to doubt that his exposure applied to me. As you can see, he totally misread him, as he mistakenly, among other things, interpreting the entire law. And if he was right about something, it's when he said he wasn't from this matter and he didn't understand too much about this law. Maybe it would have been better if he hadn't, and here he is, something's gotten in the way of the minister. It may include a microphone at the same time to listen to Serbian citizens, but it will well have a later chance if he has the courage to say this without a microphone to repeat it in the microphone. Mr. Antic, I'm always trying to be fun and I hope I was, and it seems to me that you've been trying to be confusing. If so, you've managed to make it completely confusing, to speak softer. I had to speak slowly to your colleagues the other day to make them understand me better. I can do it again. What's the point here? You can't determine who the law is going to apply to first. You obviously, none of you know what institutions are. You say, he said the president wants him first. This isn't a ringishil so the president has an advantage over the others. You write the next thing in law. You say – the proposed legal solutions refer to all citizens, which excludes any possible selectivity in their application. So, if adopted, the law applies to all citizens of Serbia, as any law applies. But everything else, determining the order of who the first, the second, the third, that's abuse and that shows that you have no idea what institutions are. That you don't have them, that you knock them down every day. That's what the point is.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72212	Comrade Jovanovic, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72213	More injuries have been done to the Rules of Procedure than the previous speaker. He knows it and how well he knows it, but he's become manipulative that the domino effect only tends to hurt members, and you, in accordance with the provisions of article 27, should have sanctioned him anyway. First of all, he spoke to the Minister with his words, and he ran away. Prior to that, the same speaker says he is decent and cultural and thus manifests himself personally and his MP groups. If that term reflects his culture, I accept, I don't mind. I would ask you to return to the agenda, given that the previous speaker has been obstructing the work of this session for a long time trying to reach out to the citizens and collect certain political points, which will certainly not follow his hand. Since it is our duty, as MPs of this House to determine ourselves exclusively under the law we are discussing, I ask that we do so in the future and that these things no longer happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72214	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I agree fully with your findings, but on the other hand, I must respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I agree with the finding to get back to the agenda. As chairman, I have that right. As I have the right to assess whether I should give someone my word or not, even though I never abused that right. You insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here I'll let you talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72215	Mr. Milicevic, a member of the 107th and dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. If you're as powerful and as strong as the coalition, I don't know why you're so violently reacting. Why am I this poor little, uneducated to you, as counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic says. Is that a feature of my education? Well, it is, why not. Is that an ugly expression to say that someone's got a tantrum? It's a Serbian beautiful literary term, folkly. What's the big deal? There's nothing controversial about it. You're bothered by other things. It bothers you that you're politically incapable of explaining this law and then talking nonsense. Is there worse nonsense and worse insult to the dignity of the National Assembly that the minister who defends the law says he is a member of few, members of the law, but that's why they are very readable. And you're talking about seriousness. If you are so powerful, then dominate these congregation discussions. You're not getting up. That's why it bothers you when someone warns you that nicely, to culturally, to human, to give civilized. I promise you, Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Milicevic, Martinovic, when we are in power, we will abolish this cadada law. We will not fine the MPs. We'll try our best to convince them of something. You have abolished democracy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It depends on your goodwill when an MP will have some right to the Rules of Procedure. When you want, when someone says they can, then they can, when you say it over, then it's over. It's not just today. It's every day. Look, in this room right now, and it's nice Mr. Martinovic noticed. There are more MPs of the SRS than all MPs of the ruling coalition together, and we have been elected 22, and you are about 180, as far as I know, 170, 180, as many as you already are. That's the majority you've got. You too have a problem with these 20 MPs who sit here and have something to say against your law. Well, we're really rude and reckless because we disagree with this law, but we disagree. Don't you understand why we don't agree, Mr Antic? Because there are already legal assumptions that anyone who has broken the law is being processed. Did Gilas break the law? What are you protecting him for? Let him answer. Because Jeremy broke the law? What are you protecting him for? Let him answer. Has Bastache broken the law? If he is, let him answer. You've got the knife and the cake. You're the government, and you're complaining about how unable you are to implement something, so you need this law. Is this the last law? You say we'll get justice. Is this the last law needed to bring Serbia to justice? To answer Gilas, to answer Šolak, to answer Miskovic. If that's the last thing you need, here's what I'm gonna vote for. But it's not. You say the same thing about every law, and nothing changes in Serbia. Serbia is still a country of injustice. Serbia remains a country of social differences. Serbia is a country where the representatives of the regime determine everything, in which directly after the speaker, the head of the parliamentary group of the largest parties determines who will be subject to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72216	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ( ) Radeta colleagues, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72217	Article 27 has been injured. Comrade Milicevic, let's keep an eye on what's going on here. Of course, we in the SRS never raise the question of when it is replicated and when it lasts I don't know how long, on the contrary, we think that it is indeed in the right sense of parliamentary democracy and that the National Assembly is serving precisely to exchange views, ideas, views of political parties representing in the National Assembly on behalf of citizens who voted for individual political parties. Demagogy is that the MP says, "That's enough, let's stop obstruction." Is it possible, here, we have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, article 104 speaks of replicas. Is it possible that if this Article 104 is used and the chairman allows replicas, which they really should do, of course, nothing is disputed, how is it possible that another MP calls it obstruction? Why? I guess it's because he hasn't come to terms, and whoever's trying to stop him from reporting, from taking part in the replicas, from taking part in the debate. Indeed, don't demagoguely let some demagogue MPs want to make an impression in public, let's talk about what's on the agenda. On the agenda is everything that has been said today and all that the People's Messengers want to talk about. As far as it came out, strictly from what's on the agenda. Well, they all came out of it. And, that's okay. It's normal to be like that. We're not students at school or give us writing when we get in here what anyone needs to read. We represent the citizens of Serbia here, we express the views of political parties. I'm just asking you, so don't, for the sake of the public, just tell your colleagues who use such inappropriate expressions, when it comes to the right to replication, just so that we don't get the impression that we Serbian radicals are obstructing something here. No, we work, and we're the most numerous political group today all day in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72218	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72219	Thank you. Those who understand each other and those who have graduated from law school should be understood in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72220	Just a member, mate, please. Just a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72221	I'm sorry. Article 106. Just as I said earlier, at least anyone who deals with the profession should know what the Rules of Procedure is and that the Rules of Procedure implies a body of procedural powers, and you, the Honorable Chairman, have allowed these procedural powers here to be harshly misused, and that countless times come out of the agenda and comment on what comes to mind. The fact that he's an offended minister, it's again, I'm going to repeat, a reflection of culture, but not taking care of the points of the agenda and making one political story, like rallying somewhere at some political rally or event, is really not allowed by this House, nor are we MPs to accept it. I will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure, because you have both the right and the obligation to take time away from his MP's group and to return the Assembly's session to a normal track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72222	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) You have indicated Article 106. Rules of Procedure. A short time ago, it was said that the ruling coalition and, specifically, I as chairman intend to suspend democracy, in a funny tone. I'm just saying that's not my intention and that all the time I'm trying to find one balance in respect of rights and positions, or authorities, of one, and the opposition, on the other hand, and allow one broad debate. I agree in the part of the presentation of my colleague Radeta during the reference to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that it is legitimate for each MP to have one broader aspect of the topic of the current assembly session. It's a legitimate right and I can never predict it, and never, ever, you know very well, have I used sanctions in the National Assembly. My colleague Radeta, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72223	Now Article 107. As far as I know, I am actually sure that no one in the public, not in the towers, nor in any place questioned the degree of the Faculty of Law, Aleksandr Martinović, Nemanje Sarovic and mine. Then it's amazing that a colleague just started hurting his Rules of Procedure by saying that if someone graduated from law school, he should know something. So this is the National Assembly, this isn't a courtroom. The National Assembly lives the life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly represents citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of all ages, of all professional traditions, of all religions, of all nations. So all that the Republic of Serbia has is represented by us, the MPs and all that is the problem of the citizens of Serbia, which we are facing and which the citizens, the voters, are telling us, it is our obligation to discuss here and to express our views. It's normal for attitudes to stand up to us. It's normal, if it wasn't like that, we'd be the same party. And, of course, everyone makes their arguments for the claim he makes. Now, as far as someone's going to get out of some, I don't know, strict themes or not, it's completely irrelevant, everything that's been talked about here today, it's all about the subject. The topic is the debate in the National Assembly. Here, I ask you that, you really didn't mean it, or you didn't show that you think otherwise, colleague Milicevic, but just, no matter who intervenes in the Rules of Procedure, you just have to say that someone is wrong anyway, if they're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72224	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Comrade Sarovic, you want what, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? He can't rephrase the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because what I did as chairman, I gave my word to my colleague, Radeti, who pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't see that I did any damage to the Rules of Procedure. So it's impossible to get right on that basis at this point. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72225	I really believe that there is still a higher degree of misunderstanding of this whole matter and all the problems, and regardless of the politicization and attempts to be interesting in this Assembly, and that the public understands the essence. In existing legal solutions, we do not have a framework to deal with the origin of property, we have a whole series of other elements of tax offences, tax evasion, different levels of anti-legislative activities that are governed by a whole series of laws, but we do not have a law that determines the origin of the property, and then there were two options. One option is that this issue is resolved through changes and additions to one of the existing laws, or through the adoption of a special law. By adopting a special law, no matter how many people here twist my words, I think it was done in an extremely good way, in a small number of members, who are very clear, and absolutely unequivocally edit this matter in a completely transparent way. I am, and I repeat, not selective and in a completely anti-corruption way. I believe that it is clear to everyone once again, I am absolutely convinced that the citizens of Serbia, who have waited a long time for such a law, whose laws have promised and welcomed the adoption of this law for decades, as they first welcome political courage and determination, political structures, which have finally dared to propose such a law and to support it from President Vukic, and all political parties that form the governing structure. I understand that some political parties, clearly understand that citizens of this kind of law want and that for these very reasons they are trying through these petty disputes and they will jump in this way in one debate, reducing the effects of passing such a law, but I think it is a completely irrelevant process. I, however much, Mr. Jovanovic, thank you for trying to defend me in some way, but no more, there's no need. My relationship with the MP, Mr. Sarovic, has some political constant and I am really always ready to get into that kind of debate and controversy and I don't understand it in one wrong way. I'm more concerned that I don't understand why Mr. Sarovic with this many elanas challenge this law, and I know there are no reasons that are of a personal nature and then I'm worried, because I repeat, we have a political constant in these discussions, I'm worried about this political misunderstanding, the moment this law is being adopted and I really don't understand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72226	I thank you, Minister Antic. You were mentioned by your colleague Sarovic during the presentation of the minister. The question is how is it fellow Sarovic we understand, so I will give him the right to replication. Nemanja Sarovic: I got it right. I believe you have understood well and positively. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72227	So, you know your thesis, Mr. Minister, that the law is good because it is supported by a large number of Serbian citizens is actually a confirmation of your political inability to make any real argument in the light of this law at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This law passed the government a few days ago. He arrived at the Republika Srpska Assembly after an emergency procedure, read by a small part of the MPs, mostly from the Serbian Radical Party. Serbian citizens did not even read it, so they could support it or not support it. (Alexandra Tomic: There was a public debate last year. In order for a man to know whether or not he has to get to know it first. The citizens are only familiar with the performance you're making of this law, and that play is false. That play is a colorful lie. Citizens want to apply existing legislation. I read for over 65,000 euros a short time, a fine was threatened, plus a prison sentence of three to 10 years. You are now introducing a higher threshold of 150,000 euros, as a minimum of where that control is going and introducing 75% of that amount that was acquired by law to subtract. It is easier than existing legislation. (Alexandra Tomic: It is not true. ) You can be angry with the will and say it's small jumps, try to demean what the opposition says, but here you are essentially bothered with freedom of speech. It bothers you that we are making counter arguments and that in these counter arguments we are obviously more successful in front of the citizens of Serbia than you are in the presentation of arguments. If it weren't for that, you wouldn't be jumping like the broken-down men of the business, so ask to limit what it is that the Messengers can say. Can democracy exist without freedom of speech? Freedom of speech implies that I, as a national MP, in the way I consider it best, explain to the citizens of Serbia what it is all that is wrong with this or any other law. This implies that Mr. Nejo Jovanovic should apologize and say – I apologize for trying to end freedom of speech. I'll be happy to accept your apology and Mr. Secretary doesn't have to apologize any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72228	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72229	Thank you, Chairman. As an MP, if I have learned anything so far in this parliamentary work, I have learned that freedom of speech is not harassment. And what seems to be done by the MPs who spoke before me is the classic kind of harassment of all of us here together, considering that every... (President: Col. Jovanovic, ease rhetoric, please. ) I am just handling what my predecessor imposed as a principle in the debate, i.e. in dialogue, which is literally an attempt to do all the time through the invitation, whether on the Rules of Procedure, or on the replica, to degrade everything that the other party is saying, and in particular it is us, representatives of the government, in a way that is absolutely not appropriate, to this House, it is not particularly appropriate to postulate democracy, I do not see why anyone, for whatever it is, would apologize, and I think it is high time that we start to discuss only a law that is on the agenda, without pride, without pulsism, without politics, would simply do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72230	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I realized that I was being directed at, and I'm about to give the speaker a word, since the minister called and then I ask you to continue in the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72231	I apologize to the MPs for participating in this region in this way. I agree that everyone has the right to present their view of a legal solution to the citizens of Serbia, but above all, it must do so in a way that is absolutely correct and that is fundamentally correct. First, this law is not here in front of the National Assembly by emergency procedure and this law entered the Assembly on December 27, 2019. So it's not an emergency procedure and it's not ten days ago like the honourable MP, Mr. Sarovic, said. So, this law has been in the process for a long time, in continuity and in the National Assembly for two months. That's one thing. The second thing, I have to do for the citizens of Serbia, I know Mr. Sarovic knows it, but it is his presentation to the public of Serbia. So Serbian citizens must understand that this law does not suspend other legal solutions. Mr. Sarovic read certain solutions and the Code of Criminal Procedures that tang tax evasion. Those tax-related solutions of course remain in force. This law treats completely other matter and defines the origin of the property. In order for citizens to understand that someone can do tax evasion for an asset or any other way of obtaining a certain financial value, a pair of sleeves, but someone can have property for which the tax pays neatly only that property has no origin, a completely different story. So someone illegally acquired a huge asset that doesn't match his income and can't prove it. Today, the property even pays a normal tax, and this law tangs it, and we in no law, Mr. Sarovic, have no solution for the situation and therefore the special law, and therefore the law on the origin of the property, and therefore very precisely I say - the citizens of Serbia have been expecting for a long time a law establishing the origin of the property, I did not say that they are expecting Article 1, 5, 7 in this and that text they are looking for a law that, in a single decent, quality, non-selective and anti-corruption manner, determines the origin of the property and we have put that law on the table and the National Assembly will adopt it in the day of voting, and I believe that it will be an important day for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72232	Thank you. Coli Sarovic, it is mentioned several times during the presentation of Mr. Minister, and it is my obligation to provide you with a replica, but I really ask you to slowly bring the end when it comes to replicas and to continue in the order of the registered MPs. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72233	Mr. Milicevic, I don't know why you always insist that the debate should be concluded if the debate is democratic, if it is within the framework of the law, it is for the general benefit of all Serbian citizens. You honor democracy and say that it exists, and then you claim something else. I thought after Mr. Minister's apology that we would end this circle of replicas, but then he moved on, so he says that I don't understand some things, and I actually understand because I, Mr. Antic, am a graduate lawyer and I understand the extremely well of this provision, and I don't know exactly what you're up to. Now, I've read the terms of the Criminal Law. You say it's not enough, it's gotta be this law and they've been waiting for it for a long time. The citizens waited too long for him. You claim and you're proud of it, I suppose, for 96 months, you've been in power for eight years, for a law of 29 members. Three months per article, it took you to write this law, if that was a problem, but it wasn't, Mr. Anticu, here's the problem. The law treats those who earn 150 000 euros against the law. Well, can you acquire 150 thousand euros in a legal way without being able to prove the origin of the property? Well, he can't. If you get legal, then you get it through the account, you have some business, you pay taxes, you know where the money comes from. That's the point. You have mechanisms today to take away all of that if it's acquired by crime, whether it's selling drugs, whether it's this, whether it's that. The other thing is whether you're capable or not to do it. This is your political capitulation such as the adoption of the Law on Public Executors was your capitulation, because you acknowledged that the judicial perpetrator and that system that existed were unable to bring order, so instead of solving the existing problem, you invent a new caste of public perpetrators, which then became rich overnight in Serbia. But, you see, there's a people waiting for that law to be on the agenda. The Serbian Radical Party collected over 100,000 signatures and handed over the procedure, but there are no laws. Don't you think they're no longer interested in Serbia's citizens getting rid of these bloodsuckers that are now public executioners, but you care more about Gordana Comic. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72234	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72235	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, this debate today clearly indicates that the proposal for a law establishing the origin of property and a special tax is one of the most significant laws we are discussing in this meeting. It's a law that regulates a very sensitive area. I will consider this law, or I can observe it with two aspects. One is a financial aspect, and the other is the aspect that concerns the context of the fight against corruption. When we talk about the financial aspect, I expect in this way, first of all, to improve the efficiency of the tax system. Thus, we will correct one injustice, and on the radar of this law, all those suspected of being rich in an illegal way or not paying taxes, or having acquired property, will find themselves not in line with the incomes they have reported. The important thing is that this law will not be applied selectively, and that's what my previous colleagues have been talking about. It refers to all taxpayers and will literally include all citizens, and private entrepreneurs, all the way to politicians. In addition, the tax administration will have an obligation to prove in which cases there was an increase in assets. This will, on the one hand, be the job of the tax administration, and on the other hand, the natural persons will have an obligation to prove, or to provide evidence that the property has been acquired in a legitimate manner. In order for this process to work properly, it will contribute to the formation of a special unit within the tax administration and I expect it to be made by really good professionals, experienced professionals, who will do the job so that wherever there is a fundamental suspicion that they will inform the police, the tax police, the prosecution and other competent state authorities. Another important aspect of this law concerns the fight against corruption, as I have already said. Anyone who has worked fairly and in accordance with the law should not worry about the application of this law, and those who have illegally acquired wealth and have not paid taxes should bear consequences. Also, this will be a message to everyone that the state is ready to deal with corruption and that it will not look through anyone's fingers. Also, this law is important from one economic aspect, because this is how a clear principle is set, which is that all are equal before the law and that the same rules apply to all market participants and thus we will show that there are no advantageous ones on the market and we will build a healthy economic environment. I also expect that, within a prescribed six-month period, all sublegal acts will be adopted to strengthen the mechanisms for this law to be effectively implemented in practice. There is no doubt that SDPS will support this law, as well as other laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72236	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. He's not there. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. He's not there. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this mandate, the SRS has clearly pointed to the burning problems facing Serbia. Except for those economics, it's a crime problem. We expected you to hear our appeal to bring in legal acts in time to prevent this crime and that kind of crime through the institutions of this state. Unfortunately, here we have experienced at the end of your term that you are proposing a law that is more of a marketing type than is essential. This law, as we said in the afternoon debate, is simply not founded in the Constitution and the Constitutional Court will challenge this law. We, first of all, want all those who have tax evasion, who have illegally come to property, process, to get in the way of crime and crime. However, what is the fact? The fact is, you keep avoiding or turning your back on that kind of crime. You've introduced something that's brand-new compared to what was during DOS. You in this Serbia, which has a total of six million inhabitants, want media to impose one dilemma, that in Serbia with six million inhabitants, you do not know who these criminals are who illegally acquire property. I don't speak now as a general place, but we clearly point out that any government that goes into the fight against crime will, by making it acceptable for its ministers, by bringing the most prominent members of its party to bring the law, to process them, that authority is acceptable for the people and it is acceptable to have that desire and desire in the fight against crime, and we have been here for four years, not to speak of an earlier term, but four years we have the same story. We're turning around our axis on our own, and that's how we distract the public. We tell you loud and clear, we point to the name and last name and say that Mladjan Dinkic, Vlahovic, Labus, Djelic, the people who have proven criminals, committed crimes, broke into the National Bank, robbed them. Sam Djelic admitted that he came here to this Serbia sleeping with his aunt and left this Serbia with 10m euros. Sam confessed. He took it out himself. In the privatization and how they participated. They've got their hands deep in their pockets. So, what are we looking at now? We are now watching a scene of the adoption of a bill that should regulate the origin of the property and that we are dealing with someone who eventually acquired property that differs from its incomes of 150 000 euros, and Dinkic, Djelic, Vlahovic, millions of euros and everyone is quiet. Gentlemen, today we still feel the consequences of politics, the crime led by Mladjan Dinkic and as finance minister and as governor and what he wasn't. He liquidated banks in this Serbia. He's got the money that was deposited into one trust fund. It is this bankruptcy fund that was created thanks to banks, such as Beobanka, as other banks were liquidated overnight. Billions of euros are in that fund. What's the result of all this? He was a member of the government. In his previous term, he was a coalition partner, and it made him sick. And now we need to believe that on this basis you will eventually initiate a justifiable procedure against Zorana Mihajlovic. It's hard to believe. Why? Because you can't even let her secretary at the Ministry process until the end, but you brought her first associates in, in 24 hours you had to let them go, some of them were even welcomed at the highest possible level, the minister himself welcomed them and one of them said, "Yes, it is true, I was taking bribes, I was recalibrating, but for the interests of the minister and her husband." It would mean calling on the minister to make a statement anywhere in the normal world, in every country in order. When it comes to a political stance, and that would also be how it would benefit the ruling party to use it to say – no one is spared and no one is immune when it comes to law enforcement, and about crime, here's the minister gone to make a statement. How do you cover it? He says, it goes to the lie detector, so if the lie detector finds out he was telling the truth, then it's not worth the trial, it's not worth the investigation, it's not worth the court's worth. On top of that, there is the first man in this country to continue to protect us for unknown reasons, the people who have become encumbered in crime. To us radicals, unknown reasons, knowing that he was not personally involved in any crime. It just spins like some kind of matrix that we operate on. We make it clear to you, not because we have against these personalities, but because it is a reality in Serbia in which we live. Minister Mihajlovic's husband is going openly, publicly, to recalibrate companies for the construction of roads, openly, publicly. Did anyone hear that the investigative authorities invited those people he was with to recruit them in the worst possible way, by forcing them to admit that they made a mistake in building a section of the road from Ub or by forcing them to give up money so that they would be kept in mind when they were working on the road infrastructure? None of these people are invited, but it all comes down to -- Serbia is talking. Serbia talks, and if Serbia talks, then there is at least one part of it that should be considered by those who are concerned with the protection of the law. We had a pompous announced appearance on the scene of Serbia's Elliot Ness. This Elliot Nes is Kusic, an inspector who has made known on all televisions that Miskovic is the biggest criminal, how he hid the tax, how he illegally acquired property. What was that? When the trial took place, Miskovic turned out innocent. Innocent in terms of working in accordance with the laws that were in force at the time. And what happened? Instead of continuing to invest in Serbia, Miskovic has been a typical example of how it has been done trying to place his money most of the way out of Serbia. Now that we're on this topic, it would be logical to control all the assets, complete financial transactions. Every country does that. But in the last four years, my fellow respected colleagues, we have witnessed that local powers, which in translation means, let's say, the mayors of certain municipalities and cities have huge assets on the Montenegrin coast and you know who they are, better than we Serbian radicals, but keep quiet. Why don't you shut up, nobody knows the real reason. It's always explained and said like that in the towers -- you don't know one minute, they'll come under the influence of the law. When will that come under the law? Here's the election on the threshold. No, there is no will, no desire, and somewhere, frankly, there is no possibility that those who have wronged the law should be processed, such as Minister Mihajlovic. No way. It's loud and clear, and the Americans are behind it, and there's no one to process it. What she sees is that she has property, wealth, jewelry in this case bigger than her incomes, it has nothing to do with it. He doesn't even hide that he works at a university that's been compromised, where half of the ministers or government officials in the current government have completed colleges. Now we've seen them finish those schools and keep quiet about it. Why? It's the easiest way to manipulate people like that, put him as a minister, and then you don't care, he can't lift his head, he can't say anything. Why? Because his school is controversial, his diploma. We have it in the MUP, where simply the minister himself cannot count his schoolmates, and before that, when we Serbian radicals indicated that it was a shame for this country, first of all for this regime, to be headed by a man who, in a very suspicious way, came to a university degree, all of you interpreted it or most of it, truth be told, you interpreted it as a personal matter with Tomislav Nikolic. No, I don't. To us at the time was the goal and now to prevent this negative, giving a negative example to young people. What will a young man do when you advise him to finish school? What, they're gonna say, "What school do I need if I want to be president of the state like Toma Nikolic used to be, what do I need school for?" I'm gonna go. I'm gonna get that degree. If I want to be a minister of police, why do I need a school? She'll get it in a very magical way, and it wasn't enough of that pressure, that appeal, but it went one step further. We have been found in recent months with the proportions of an affair involving the father of the interior minister, and then to cover it, even the DRI finds that there is a crime committed in the case of trade, namely the relationship between the company that he represents in one way or another and the dedicated industry "Krusik", i.e. Trstenik. Then what is it? Then the authority of the president of the state is reused, where it is brought into an awkward situation. Then he doesn't know if the Home Secretary's father is working or is either a consultant or a consultant, so photos show up at an arms dealer's meeting, so there's a father from the Home Secretary. We're not talking, Serbian radicals, because we have something special against the interior minister, but it's a real example because it's a continuity when it comes to the interior ministry. We first had Dusan Mihajlovic who, many of these illegal shops are related to him, has peds. During his term of office, remember, the Prime Minister was killed. The man remained in office explaining that he did not allow Ceda Jovanovic to replace him. Remember that argument? It's just funny. They didn't put him on the post, the English intelligence didn't give him away, because he's deeply behind it suspecting that they were involved in liquidating the Prime Minister. Is there more shame for a country than not to clarify such a murder? How will it be clarified when there's a man at the head of the ministry who's constraint in crime? After that, not to mention, he comes to the head of the M.E.P. A man who's been breaking in on trades, and now a man whose diploma is suspicious, so what do you want to do next? Well, imagine a situation where members of an elite unit, anti-terrorist units of the MUP need some ceremony to hand over the report to the interior minister. What kind of logic is that? What are the efforts of these people to remain calm, instead of being arrested, they hand him the report and it's all seen and said – there's no proof? How can there be no evidence? At least that he was invited, that they were called, that they gave a statement, and not so, a lie detector, if the lie detector showed up, and who was looking at that lie detector, and where is that as evidence even valid? Nowhere. It's enough, and now that we're having a debate in most of these replicas, you've been referring to the name of Alexander Vukic, so don't. This is about serious stuff. Everyone here is determined to fight crime and everything acquired by crime should be registered and taken away or sanctioned in accordance with the law, but a law that is valid. Well, we told you in the afternoon debate one example that was in 2001. The victim of that extra profit tax was just the current president of the state. Why was that done? Well, that was a purely political charge. While these were stealing Dinkic, Djelic and these, they found that extra profit should, extra tax to pay Alexander Vukic. Well, I guess he took lessons himself, too, I guess he cares about fighting crime himself. And then when he thanks you for the second argument, get his family out immediately. So, wait, what does the Home Secretary have to do with the Wolf family? There's nothing, except he fooled the president that his dad had nothing to do with Krusik, and Dad went all the way to say - the next time we get to Valjevo in Krusik, put my picture on. Imagine the modesty. Can you imagine the situation? What ambitions are these? Now that this leak has been made public, it is now known that the same man was caught with 300,000 euros in the bag. Did anyone ask him where he got that money? No, I don't. It's just that it's a distraction to other things entirely, a media campaign is being made, as it is now being done. Now you're doing the same thing. Instead of taking this job seriously, and we're telling you what the consequences will be, the economic consequences, you're going to make people cut this country even more down when it comes to paying taxes. The Cosmack is your best example. The man has a minimum pension. Why? Well, because he paid minimum for retirement. There's a huge fortune in real estate, it's all proven legal. And if the state had heard and had heard, as Bogoljub Karic had to flee from this country, not because of you, of course, but because of those who came as Democrats with bulldozers and buffers, wouldn't it be more logical for these people to invest in this Serbia, to develop this Serbia? Well, you have entire settlements where your elite political, settlements, where when ambulances come, they run, they think it's the police. Well, that's what their neighbors comment on and say - as soon as an ambulance arrives, my neighbor is packing and running, she thinks it's the police. What kind of world do we live in? What's that fight against crime? One fine struggle in which it is known exactly in Serbia who is and in what way he gained capital, where that capital is located, but he is silent. Why keep quiet? Well, because there are deeply involved people who are within the system of government. Well, there are ministers in power. How can you question anything when it comes to university diplomas, and not put as an example at least one of the ministers to say -- here it is, in a very strange way, he gained that degree, here, turn the cameras on, put it in a microphone, let him tell the public how he got to the diploma. No, you're saying that in Germany, the minister has resigned for moral reasons. It's here when it comes to government, when it comes to high-ranking officials, morals are far from them. They're obviously on you with morality. We Serbian radicals will not give up. The election's coming. The question is, what happens after the election? The concern is whether the SRS and how many votes they get, don't worry. We've tasted that bitter bread and we've been a nonparliamentary party, but we won't give you peace, especially if we get into a situation to participate in power. We'll pass laws, under these laws, everyone will be processed, and we can't wait to find out in our ranks someone who wronged the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72238	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72239	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with an associate, the SNS slogan has been promised and done. We have before us the Law establishing the origin of the property. This law regulates the conditions, the way and the procedure in which the property is determined and the increase of assets for which the natural person cannot prove that the same glass is legally obtained, as well as the authorities responsible for the implementation of this law. The meaning of expressions such as assets, reported income, increased assets and illegally acquired assets will very often be in our next documents. Not every one of these meanings should be specifically explained. The implementation of this law is under the obligation of the tax administration to determine the property and the specific tax. The Head of the Tax Administration Unit may be a person who has at least 10 years of working experience in transactions in the field of the tax procedure. The establishment of irregularities in illegally acquired assets will include the National Bank, the Ministry of Money Laundering, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the RGZ, the Agency for Business Registers, the Central Register, the Deposit and the clearing of securities of value. The tax administration unit will initiate the control procedure in a manner prescribed by the tax procedure if the previous procedure makes it likely that in a maximum of three consecutive calendar years in which the natural person had an increase in assets and if there is a difference between the increase in assets and the registered income of the natural person, which is greater than 150,000 euros in dinar equivalent. After the control of the tax administration units, it determines a special 75% tax on the tax base. The tax system is a dynamic category that monitors social needs and meets the requirements of fair redistribution of assets and income, effective functioning of the market and the jurisdiction of the state in general. The adoption of the law sets out and directs the social objective of taxation, consisting of reducing the difference in the material and social situation of taxpayers and thus reducing the difference between taxpayers whose property corresponds to the incomes they make and those taxpayers who have disproportionate differences between these two facts which constitute the basis for the introduction of the tax liability. The proposed solution to this law until before 2012, no one thought to bring it in, because it was not in their favor, because it concerned them and their fat pockets. But by adopting it, a series of economic goals are being achieved. Avoiding tax and tax evasion not only affects the reduction of public revenues but also poses a threat to fair competition. This law is not selective. By applying it, no one will escape the responsibility to prove to the tax authorities the origin of their property. With its application, a new Gilasi, Miskovici and Jeremic will come under attack and finally the citizens of Serbia will know how Gilas earned the famous 619,000,000 euros. In voting day, I will ask my colleagues to accept and pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72240	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72241	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, at the end of today's day, we can say that, after a great long period after 2000, we do today have a law that is applicable in practice and that will show that we are really becoming a legal state with all those epithets that are characteristic of law and justice for all developed democracies of EU member states, although we are not. After all, we are introducing one basic condition for the functioning of the rule of law when it comes to the tax system, preventing abuses, introducing order, and this will all show essentially how much we have really tried to change Serbia from 2012 to today. I think the citizens of Serbia will feel the benefits and this law, as the budget will grow bigger and bigger. We'll have resources for many plans. President Vukic and the government announced a 2025 plan, and I think we can really say by that plan that it is for the benefit of all our children and for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. That is why it is very important and responsible to support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-1.u72242	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, under Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled and uniform search on the proposals of the law at issue. 1, 2nd and 3rd and 29th agenda. This would be the end of today's work. We continue work tomorrow, so on Tuesday, February 25th, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
