ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2282	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, Prime Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to understand the dynamics of the negotiating process between the Republic of Serbia and the EU, we need to remember a few things. First of all, in the Enlargement Strategy, with the report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia on Euro-integration for 2015, it was concluded, among other things, that the key principle of enlargement policy is the focus on fundamental chapters. Therefore, to be opened among the first, and among the last are the fundamental chapters 23 and 24, which are in addition to Chapter 35 in the case of the Republic of Serbia, so-called. Blocking chapters. In the new methodology of the enlargement process, strengthening the accession process, a credible EU perspective for the Western Balkans, it is stressed that the fundamental chapters in future negotiations will play an even more important role, and it is particularly pointed out that the credibility of the process should be strengthened by an even stronger focus on fundamental chapters, on the essential reforms necessary for success on our country's path to the EU. Another thing we need to remind ourselves is that the success of accession is measured not only by the number of open, but also by the number of closed chapters. The new enlargement methodology emphasises that although it is more important to encourage and reward reforms, progress in reforms, in certain situations, it can, unfortunately, be resorted to measures that would proportionately sanction any serious or long-term stagnation or even a setback in implementing reforms to meet the requirements of the accession process. The new methodology is what we welcome to the future. This programme will encourage transformation of the economy of the Western Balkans, functional market economies that can fully integrate into the EU's single market, create new jobs and opportunities for entrepreneurs, improve the business investment environment, promote the rule of law and stop brain drains. What is still to be reminded is that in the Zagreb Declaration, adopted this May 6th, at the EU-West Balkans Summit, the credibility of the Western Balkans' commitment, European integration, depends, among other things, on clear communication with the public and the implementation of the necessary reforms. Therefore, strategic communication will play a major role in increasing the efficiency of the accession process. It is crucial to inform all social players about the values of Euro integration and the importance of reforms. That is why holding the first plenary session is of paramount importance. In the future, more clear and concrete evaluations of political communication will be carried out in the annual reports. Let me start with the report. The first paragraph of the European Commission report states that the pace of accession negotiations between the Republic of Serbia and the EU will depend on the progress of the rule of law and normalisation of relations with Kosovo that are crucial to the process. With the assessment that progress in the rule of law, unfortunately progress in the rule of law is not as rapid and effective as could be expected from a country that has started accession negotiations in the Report, Serbia must urgently speed up and deepen reforms, particularly judicial independence, the fight against corruption, freedom of the media, the processing of war crimes and the fight against organised crime. So, in the domain of political criteria and the rule of law. The good news is that in the enlargement package, the term "extended" or "access" appears 43 times on 66 pages. Since many EU documents have unfortunately used an expression of the accession perspective in recent years. The extent to which these topics are, therefore, the rule of law and a new methodology are important for both negotiating sides tells us that the term - the rule of law in the enlargement document is mentioned 39 times on the 66 pages and that they are in the joint agenda of the EU Council. Germany, whose presidency runs from July 1st to the end of this year, Portugal, which takes over the presidency early next year and Slovenia, which holds the presidency in the second half of the following year, confirmed the extremely significant European perspective of the Western Balkans and stressed that their aim is to build on a strengthened methodology that has been established by the European Commission. And let's talk about grades. As is known, and I would like to remind all of us, in 2015, compared to previous reports, a new methodology for assessing the situation has been introduced and progress in certain areas is assessed on two scales on five-volent scales. Analysts calculated that the average score Serbia received in the European Commission report for this year was 3.33, for last year was 2.95, for 2018. 2.82, 2017, year 2.96, while 2015, when a new methodology was introduced, this assessment was 3.15. If we try to compare, to do a comparative analysis, we see that the 2020 report is a dominant assessment of the situation, moderate preparation, an assessment, namely, a moderate preparation was given for 22 negotiating chapters of 35. In the previous 2019 report, this assessment was given for the same number of the same negotiating chapters. A good level of preparation in the 2020 report was set for six chapters, while last year's report, so the 2019 report estimated good preparation for five negotiating chapters. The last two annual reports less than mediocre, thus assessing a certain level of preparedness assessed the state of preparation in five chapters, Chapter 11 of agriculture and rural development of the 23rd judiciary, the fundamental rights of 24th freedom and security, the 27th environment and climate change, the 33rd financial and budgetary provisions. As for the second assessment, it means not the situation but the progress in these areas, in the 2020 report, the dominant is an assessment and some progress made for the 14 chapters. There is a significant difference between this year and last year's report when an estimate of some progress has been made for as many as 20 chapters. Limited progress has been given for 11 chapters. Otherwise, the assessment of limited progress actually appeared last 2019 when it was given for five chapters. It is encouraging that this year there is no assessment, no progress or "no progress" while in the 2019 Report, according to the European Commission's assessment, the assessment was for three chapters. 2018 report for eight. The 2020 report introduces a new assessment, a very limited progress for Chapter 23, and we are talking about good progress. A good progress assessment in the 2020 report has been given for seven chapters, which is certainly an encouraging positive signal, as in last year's report, good progress has been given for four chapters, in the 2018 report for two and for 2016 for four. To discuss what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done for a very short time since its formation so far, and what recommendations the European Commission has made as well as the part that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has done. The European Commission's report found that constitutional reform of the judiciary had been suspended by after the 2020 elections, that it had a serious impact on the adoption of laws that should guarantee the independence of the judiciary. Following these recommendations from the European Commission for 2020, the new Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia at its tenth session. Following recommendations that the current constitution leaves too much space to the influence of the legislative, executive authorities on the choice of judicial holders, the proposed constitutional changes are handled in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the SAA, which envisions that Serbia will focus specifically on strengthening judicial independence and improving its efficiency. This is how it is done and in line with point 14 of the negotiating framework, which stresses that Serbia will ensure full implementation of reforms, key reforms and regulations, particularly in the area of rule of law, including judicial reform, in the process of harmonising its legislation with EU law. The European Commission finds in its report that Serbia has adopted a new media strategy that has been developed in a transparent and inclusive way, identifying the main challenges associated with media freedom in Serbia. In line with the recommendations set out in this Report from the European Commission, the Government of the Republic of Serbia again adopted the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Media Strategy at the 10th session, and the government made a decision on the establishment of a working group on the safety and protection of journalists and the Task Force on the monitoring of the implementation of this Action Plan for the implementation of the media strategy. As for normalising relations with Kosovo, the Commission assessed in the report that Serbia has shown its readiness, commitment and engagement in the renewed process of dialogue, but that it needs to make further significant efforts and contribute to establishing a favourable environment in order to enable a comprehensive legally binding agreement with Kosovo. To quote, the report -- such an agreement is urgent and crucial so that Kosovo and Serbia can progress each on their European path, and Serbia should continue to support and implement all past agreements on dialogue, the report said. I recall that in the EU's overall position in the part of the negotiating framework of the principles on which negotiations are based, it is said that this process should gradually end accession negotiations to lead to a comprehensive normalisation of relations. So it stands there gradually, until the end of the accession negotiations, not urgently. In the area of fundamental rights, the European Commission has assessed that a legal and institutional framework for respect for fundamental rights has been established in Serbia, but it is necessary to strengthen human rights institutions, guaranteeing their independence, including the allocation of necessary financial and human resources, as well as to act on their recommendations. It is good that these days we have also had a debate on reports of independent regulatory bodies and that we are serious about their recommendations. Serbia needs to step up measures to protect the rights of persons exposed to discrimination, not to list them, including, of course, persons with disabilities and other vulnerable individuals, to actively conduct an investigation and condemn hate crimes, to ensure an extremely significant implementation of legislation, concerning national minorities, which will ensure visible progress in the effective exercise of the rights of members of national minorities throughout the country. The enforcement of the minority action plan and relevant legislation must lead to tangible progress and effective implementation of the rights of members of national minorities, despite the legal obligation to take into account, in practice there are still problems, national minorities are still under-represented in the public administration and are a little concerned with foreign policy. The report states that Serbia's compliance with the EU's common foreign and security policy in 2019 was 60% and that Serbia must step up efforts to gradually bring its foreign and security policy into line with the EU in the period until its entry into the EU. Recommendations from the European Commission's Report suggest that Serbia's coordination with the EU's foreign policy, that it remains at a low level, and that the Serbian government is urged to place more emphasis on objective, positive and unequivocal notification of the EU, which is Serbia's main political and economic partner. The EU's focus, as is known, on the long-term socio-economic recovery of the Western Balkans and therefore proposes up to nine billion euros in IPA 3 funds for the period from 2021 to 2027 to boost the region's investment capacity. The economic and investment plan for the Western Balkans should boost regional integration, bring the Western Balkans closer to the single market. The Western Balkans plan covers 10 areas, including transport, infrastructure, clean energy, environment, digital future, private sector and social capital. The report estimates that Serbia must strengthen the efficiency, independence and transparency of parliament, to deal with the minority and the National Assembly, including the role of the prerogative parliamentary opposition, in order to ensure control mechanisms that are an inseparable part of the democratic parliament. The European Commission estimates that the new National Assembly meeting should continue an interpartial dialogue, which will of course continue early next year, with the European Parliament's intervention, in order to improve parliamentary standards and achieve a broad party and social consensus in EU travel reforms. I have to point out that after the first part of the interpartial dialogue before the elections, a lot of recommendations have been met, the conclusions of the Third Interpartial Dialogue, and among other things, the National Assembly adopted a Code of Conduct of People's MPs a few days ago, as I said, the Action Plan for the implementation of the Media Strategy, working groups for the security and protection of journalists and working group for monitoring the implementation of the Action Plan, for the implementation of the media strategy. Even a year ago, more precisely 23 December 2019, in fulfillment of the recommendations made by the dialogue, amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activities, amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises, on the prevention of corruption and the Anti-Corruption Agency were adopted. The National Assembly also chose the Supervisory Board and it was one of the recommendations that conducts general supervision of the procedures of the candidate political parties and the means of public information during the election activities. To try and figure out, in this opening address, I was really trying to talk about certain parts of the report, the way it is. The big thing is, with co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on European Integration, the current leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we've all prepared ourselves for something we've never really done, namely, not even the Committee on European Integration has discussed the report for a while. Last year, yes, a few years ago we didn't, and when the report was published on October 6th, we didn't have a new government, neither the board itself, but because of that, we had a session of the committee that invited Mr. Ambassador Sam Fabrizio, who presented the report, we had an extremely high-quality debate, and based on this debate, we've formulated the conclusions that we're going to discuss here today. I really thank the representatives of the EU delegation in Serbia who have accepted the call, regardless of the shortness of time. I do not want to open the discussion now, but I am extremely sorry that the representatives of the National Convention did not accept the proposal, calling for a pandemic, and that we did not invite them to a session of the Committee, and in fact we call them when we are discussing negotiating positions, while, for example, at the plenary session of the National Convention, our Committee on European Integration has not received an invitation. I really wish everyone an extraordinary and quality debate and I thank both the Prime Minister and the Minister for European Integration, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Human, Minority Rights, the Social Dialogue, which I hope will spend the whole day here with us and to conclude this introductory presentation with an interesting finding. When we talk about the speed and conditions of Eurointegration, I remind you that the Roman emperor Trajan has made a decree and that was somewhere, the 2nd century of our era, 1,800 years ago, that a stranger who in three consecutive years bakes a sufficient amount of bread can get all the rights of a Roman citizen. I am personally, and I believe all of us, members of the Committee and most of us, because now we have a National Assembly where commitment to European integration is 100%, convinced that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the previous, at least six years, if we speak only from 2014 to today, have baked enough bread and should earn all the rights of a European citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2283	Thank you. In order to avoid confusion, I have also called on representatives of the National Convention, and we have received an answer which in principle, thanks for the invitation and say that they cannot because of the pandemic, and on the other hand they are not satisfied that they cannot participate in the work of the Assembly, rather than sitting in the Gallery. So, I really don't want to go into this debate right now, and it's exactly how the Assembly works, and we can't be a debate club here right now and that the Assembly can participate or someone who's not scheduled for the economy of the Rules of Procedure. In that sense, we have shown our good will and desire and I thank both Elvira and the Committee on European Integration, because he has had enough patience and we have found a way to schedule and hold this session. I believe that this session is very important and that it gives one clear political message that we need to send from this session, not just for our citizens, but for those who write these reports and prepare for next year. The Prime Minister called, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2284	Thank you, Your Honor. Good afternoon, everyone. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to thank the initiative to organise a discussion at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the first time in its plenary on the Progress Report that the European Commission has made for the Republic of Serbia. Also, I want to express my satisfaction that this will now become a regular practice. I think that we as a country at this point in our European integration that it is important that both in the Assembly and in the plenary debates on this report, that this discussion is attended by either the majority of the government or certainly all the most relevant ministers and I as Prime Minister, to hear from you as legislative authorities what it is that we can continue to do and what things we should insist on, to give you additional information about what we are doing, how we plan to do in the future and how we see further our European integration, or the speed of our European integration. The government I run is certainly pro-European. This was also clear in the exhibition that I had the honour of presenting to you respected MPs, European integration remains the strategic priority of the Republic of Serbia and one of the most important tasks dealing with the government of the Republic of Serbia. I must say that it is quite clear that European integration does not depend solely on the work and efforts of the Ministry of European Integration. European integrations are pervaded through everything that we do as a government, through every one of our own, but literally individually, each of our resources and everything we do on a daily basis. We have so far opened 18 chapters, two chapters have been temporarily closed and we have five negotiating chapters ready to open, or Serbia has provided EU partners with negotiating positions for five more chapters. Every progress report, as executive authority, is being analysed in detail. In principle, I also meet regularly with the EU ambassador to Serbia, as well as with all the ambassadors of EU member states, to discuss the Progress Report, but also to discuss the things that are important before the Progress Report itself. We are always completely answering all their questions and that is the practice with which they will continue. As I once said, from the report itself and the assessment in that report, what is even more important to us is the recommendations in that report, because it's something we need to work on in the time ahead, so the situation is also with this report that we're going to discuss today. As far as the speed of European integration is concerned, we are really trying to do the fastest, but at the same time, and the best quality we can. There are two ways, as we have seen in some countries that have become EU members before us, there are two ways to lead your European integration. One is pure essential speed. To see what it is you need to fulfill to open up, or close chapters and click on all the things you need to do and the laws you need to pass, and the strategies you need to make and you end it in a formal legal way. There is another way that I deeply believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all governments have chosen him since 2014, and here, which is that you are fundamentally changing things. It is that you don't make laws just for the sake of laws that are then not implemented and that you don't write strategies just for the sake of strategy, but to think about it, do it and implement it. That everything we do on our European path ultimately results in a single European Serbia. That's what I said in my exposé. What we can do and what we are responsible for is that in every sense of standards, values, the way we do things, the way we treat each other, we have one European Serbia. Whether and when Serbia becomes an EU member as such will ultimately depend solely on the will and political readiness of the EU Member States, but it is our job to implement the reforms we are carrying out on our European path, these reforms we implement to reflect on the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia I say today that all the reforms we have on this European path, we are, above all, working for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of the people in Serbia, but also because of the economy in the Republic of Serbia, and then certainly, to become a member of the EU. But those two things are the same. These reforms will result in a better quality of life for citizens, these reforms, of course, necessary to bring us to that day when we will become an EU member. As for further progress towards the EU, I would say that we look forward to exactly how a new methodology will be applied. Of course, Minister Joksimovic will be able to talk much better than me, but the new methodology that the Republic of Serbia has said to accept will allow us to open whole clusters instead of individual chapters, which we then open and close. I think it makes a lot more sense. Also, I think it will be much better and easier for our citizens to escort, because their chapters, like chapters, are too administrative and don't mean anything. Clusters are areas, so you will know when we open up the whole area of what we are really working on, what the results are, and I think the general EU accession process will be much closer to our citizens, which is really very important. I think the process of opening whole clusters and our European integration will go much faster. What's important is to say today, and that's certainly the economic part, I think, when I look at it, to me our European integration, realistically, rest on three pillars, or three of the most important reforms. There's one economy, and we've done the most and we've done it and we've done it the most, and it really doesn't come into question in the context of the progress report, not once, and we get the most commendation, which, in the end, and without further ado, we've earned, that's the thing that's actually, easily verifiable, black on white, so we don't really have any problem here, but we've been really working on it since 2014, and we've done the most. Another area, or another pillar, is the pillar of public administration reform, and we've come quite far. We have chosen to go to a reform that essentially comes down to the introduction of electronic administrations in the Republic of Serbia in all domains, and I think that this area is already entering that third area, which we have to deal with much more in the future, which is the area of rule of law, because the electronic administration chosen by the Republic of Serbia and which it is truly committed to, besides efficiency, brings transparency to all areas of public administration, at the republican level, at the regional level or local level, and this transparency, indeed, in practice and essentially, means the fight against corruption. The third pillar, rule of law. That's the area we've heard so much about. We as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in this mandate will deal with this in particular. As a signal, thank the People's MP Kovac, which she also recognized. It seems to me that in these first about a month and a half since the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the huge support of you, the honourable MPs of this House, we have made a clear signal that this will be one of the focus of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'd just like to tell you some of the things in the area of rule of law that are over. So on November 26, 2020, we published GRECO recommendations. It was one of the things we should have done and we did it. I am particularly grateful as a representative of the executive authority for the adoption by the Serbian Parliament of the Code of Conduct and for adopting amendments proposed by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Thus, we removed that only GRECO recommendation that was completely unfulfilled. Therefore, all others were either fulfilled or partially fulfilled. This one was completely unfulfilled, so I expect the GREKO report to record it, too, in the next report. Also, great gratitude to you, honourable MPs in this house, for choosing within an extremely short period of time after the assembly was established the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as well as selecting the new members of the State Council of Prosecutors, the High Council of the Judiciary, the several presidents of courts throughout Serbia, which solves the issue of v.d. the status in courts, president and member of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. So, that's all where we are, after all, as executive authority, where we needed both your commitment and I thank you for that and look forward to continuing the co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to show that the government is the right thing to focus on right now. As far as freedom of the media is concerned, I am particularly pleased to say that the resolution minister, namely Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic, has withdrawn all requirements for the initiation of proceedings before the media court or journalists who had been launched before. It's a total of nine procedures. In addition, she withdrew five criminal charges filed by the prosecution against media representatives. On the website of the Ministry of Culture and Information, she downloaded all those statements that had been discussed directly with the media, which was not really appropriate. I, as president and these governments, owe, in fact, an apology for that. The government adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of the media strategy, a task force to monitor the implementation of the Action Plan. The Working Group has already had its first meeting and is still working. It formed a government and working group for the protection and safety of journalists. The first meeting was held there on December 17th. I said that as Prime Minister, I would once a month see the representatives of the Task Force for the Security and Protection of Journalists, to see what further we can do, because I know that we are committed to this and I don't want this to be left to the flossulas, but I really want us to find out here what the failures were, how many attacks, what kind of insults, what the judiciary was doing, how much to the legislative and executive authorities, and how much to the judicial authorities. Realistically, I don't think we can influence the judiciary. We can give her support, we can see what it takes to be more efficient, but I really kind of care for life to solve this issue in the term of this government and not be empty stories and flossules anymore, but to see in numbers together, and representatives of the government and representatives of the media and judicial authorities, what it is we are dealing with and how we solve these problems. I had my first meeting on December 23rd to discuss these things. The next meeting is already scheduled for January 29th. After all, I think this also communicates the clear willingness of the Serbian government to work on this in a different way. As far as elections and election conditions are concerned, it is within the rule of law. I had a video meeting with the ODIR delegation and the OSCE on continuing co-operation to improve electoral conditions. We have re-formed the Working Group to improve electoral conditions, i.e. to implement ODIR recommendations. The task force had its first meeting on December 25th, so we're still working on this. Again, this is something in the interest of not only the Republic of Serbia, but also of the ruling party and the ruling coalition. So, indeed, the better the election conditions, after all, the greater the legitimacy of this government. I also have to say loud and clear here that I am proud of the electoral conditions that were in these last elections in 2020 and that clearly and loudly to say that the electoral conditions of this year 2020 are much, much, much, much better than the electoral conditions that were in 2012, let's say that media freedom in the Republic of Serbia in 2020 is incomparable with the freedom of the media in 2011 and 2012, that it is heaven and country, that we have done a lot, but also to agree that we have to do much more and that we will continue to do so. These are some of the things we have done in the area of rule of law in just these about months and a few days and we continue to work on this pace and in collaboration with our partners from the EU. As for the other points that depend on the speed and success of our European integration, dialogue with Pristina, I really don't think there is one single thing that can be respected either by the government of the Republic of Serbia or by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who leads this dialogue. The Republic of Serbia has shown here an extraordinary readiness for this dialogue, openness to dialogue, great flexibility and great courage. Here we are, at the table. The dialogue's dialogue and speed depends, unfortunately, only on the other side. You need two to tango. Pristina, if it's ready for dialogue, we're here, at the table, waiting to talk. This, once again, is not only important because of our European integration, but is more important than our European integration. This is important for Serbs, the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, for stability not only in the Republic of Serbia, but throughout the region. When I say in the Republic of Serbia, I mean, of course, the AP Kosovo and Metohija and the whole region and this is something that we are committed to. Much gratitude to President Alexander Vukic for leading this dialogue, because he showed willingness and courage and because he took the greatest part of this heavy burden upon himself and thus freed the government from doing many other things concerning the daily quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We remain open for the dialogue, we remain ready for the dialogue. We've shown that a few times, and we'll keep showing it. Finally, just one more thing to say about dialogue. What we will continue to insist on is a community of Serb municipalities. We cannot move forward with new agreements unless Pristina implements the first agreements they have signed. I think that's the only seriousness we need to expect from the people we have dialogue with. Finally, thanks to our partners from the EU. First of all, I have two people to point out. It is Commissioner for Enlargement Oliver Varhelji, who is indeed a true friend of Serbia and the Western Balkans and the real one, I think, a man for this place because in the best possible way he builds trust between not only Serbia, but the entire Western Balkans and the EU and a man who is helping us and the rest of the Western Balkans in the most concrete way to get closer to the EU. Our approach to the EU, or our integration into the EU, seems to me that it should be as important for the EU as it is for us, because ultimately, some stability and security within the EU itself depend on them, but also the strength of the Union itself, so I hope that all Member States see it that way. The other person, of course, the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Lien, with whom we communicate in the best possible way both President Aleksandar Vukic and I, who is indeed also one woman who, as President of the European Commission, said that the Enlargement Agenda remains one of the key EU priorities, i.e. the European Commission in its mandate. This meant a lot to us and we hope, after all, that in 2021 we see together with a new methodology a much better speed of access through these clusters. Thank you, once again, for your support. I look forward to opening this up today and to opening a new era in our European integrations and by discussing in this and this home the plenary on the Progress Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2285	I thank the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. As you know, the word is vice-proportional to the number of members of the parliamentary group, so the right to receive the word first, and applied, has the vice-president of the National Assembly Muamer Zukorilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2286	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we are today in a position to discuss this report, which shows a new quality or a new step in the quality of the work of the National Assembly, where we are actually deciding, and I hope that this will be a practice on other reports of this importance, where we decide to actually face what is in this report, whether it is good things, good assessments, or that there are certain remarks. That's very important. In this regard, the topic of the country's European integration has been one of the most important political topics for many years. Although we no longer have a controversial position on the majority government here, including the government itself, therefore, we have a very clear definition, which has been uncontested in recent years, not only in the declarative, theoretical sense, but also in practical behaviour, in the legislative and any other respect, but this still does not mean that this topic is simplified and that the EU integration of this country can go so smoothly. In fact, it is still a subject around which we have a shared public and it is only a question of where this line is located, whether it is a little more of those who support the European integration of this country or lose the will on that path, and are opposed to these integrations. What's a fact is that this division is mostly in some extreme relationship, and the truth never dwells on extremes. It's always the truth somewhere in the middle. That's why this subject, in our opinion, needs to be approached, not only by those who say – we support everything about European integration, unspoken and unconditionally, without even asking what it means, what are good, and what are bad sides, as it is not good to be against everything unconditionally and also, without controversy about it. True, like I said, most often or always living somewhere in the middle. It is always relative and we always have room to talk to both those who are unconditionally in favour and with those who unconditionally oppose. So, regardless of we no longer have a problem with the majority political attitude, that doesn't mean we shouldn't talk at all, and even if we have certain objections, to hear the remarks coming from the European Commission, but also that we have certain objections and requests. We have the right to some clarifications, as we have the right to certain specialities. So, the EU is the Union, the Union is not a monolithity, nor ethnic monolithity, nor confessional monolithity, nor cultural monolithity. It may be the most economically easy to achieve some degree of monolithity, but it's actually a union of diversity. It is of the utmost importance that we always know, and underline, and it is also of the utmost importance for us here, in our country, here in Serbia, here in the Balkans, where there are somewhat more specificities, especially in the cultural sense, in a spiritual sense, in an ethical sense. So I represent this, let me say, attitude of the environment, where we support European integration and we have no doubt whether this is the political direction of this country. But we also want to take advantage of all possibilities in the very concept of Eurointegration, because the idea of the EU has gone and established, it has been established in principle of reconcilation, in principle of reconciliation, and the very word reconciliation and the concept of reconciliation itself is actually talking about the structure of deep differences. It is the Union that is about bringing these differences closer and closer together. Of course, in the Western-European sense and in the European sense in general, it involves, first of all, deep differences, political, not least, this principle has its own details, i.e. its nuances. It also hides our chance that we, the Balkans, in Serbia, Serbian citizens, Serbs, Bosniaks, Albanians, Hungarians, and all others, do not want them, too, and we want to have a place in the EU, but by understanding the EU as a very comfortable house, as a very comfortable space, a space that will allow all of us to have our ethnic, religious, spiritual and primarily ethical differences and convictions come true and codified in that European house. So, I think we're not using that possibility enough, actually, by going into the extreme matrix, are you into European integration, so if you're in favour, you have no right to ask anything, but you're in favor, shut up, apply whatever you're told, whatever you're ordered, or vice versa. So, this matrix I think is reducing our space, that these specialities. The Balkans is part of Europe and it is indisputable, not only geographically but also culturally-civilising, but culturally it has its specialities. I will never reconcile that the image of the Balkans is just what's been happening to us for the last hundred or 1990s, these bloody wars and criminals. Unfortunately, it's part of our Balkans, too. But the Balkans have much more to offer. The Balkans are also ancient Greece and all the cultures of ancient Greece, which is one of Europe's postulates. The Balkans are both Rome and all of Rome's civilizations, which is another postulate of Europe, but it is also the Balkans and all that specificity and speciality that had elements of mutual communication between the peoples in this civilization of cohesion and civilization of diversity. So, the Balkans, there it is, such a Balkans, which may not have caught the best step in the 20th century, probably because of the desolation, anti-theism and all that has been at stake with the spirit of the Balkans. We have lost too much, and if God had given us good luck if we had joined the EU in the late 1980s, we would have been very much preserved, and we would not be dealing with this now, and we would not have hundreds of thousands dead among the victims, almost millions displaced, etc. That, of course, we can't throw up. But that's why we can learn great lessons. The lessons we need to learn are in fact – it never happened again. But you can’t stay on it “for God’s sake. ” We must do it on our own side, certainly above all in our relationship. In order to achieve that environment, this golden environment that I'm talking about, in fact, that we would reduce the extremes of those who are Eurofanatics, as it is said, or opponents of the EU, because our success is not just going to be in the process, of course, that the procedures are necessary but they are not the only ones, they are not the key to our Eurointegration, here, they have been reduced to a very small part of the unfulfilled procedures. We will fulfill it, but the question is asked – what are citizens' expectations? What happens after? If we talk about some Eurofanatics in citizens, who are unconditional for the EU, are we wondering why they are for the EU? Many because they do not understand what will be obtained by this EU, but think that the moment we join the EU, we will have German or Scandinavian salaries. What happens after we enter the EU and get no German or Scandinavian salaries? It'll take a lot of time to get them and it won't depend on procedure, believe me. This will depend on our core relationship, not according to EU standards, but according to the standards of human, civilization, organisation, state, state and according to the standards of our society. There's what we should turn our arrows harder, both in political and media terms. I'm not even sure that all MPs understand this the right way. We simply fall into this atmosphere of bad students, where we have some teachers from the EU who have assigned us tasks, and if you fulfill this, you get a two and you go to the next class. There's no selameta in those two, there's no success. I'm not sure that's what we really want. So -- that procedure, here, we want to honor them. Let us have our remarks, and we need someone to remind us. But our energy needs to be focused on the essence, or on real standards, but not in a way that is imposed on us, but in a way that we should do it for us. I finished two nights ago, stayed 24 hours with my parents in the village near Tutina. We haven't had power in 24 hours. I was 24 hours old. These villages, most villages around Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica do not have electricity for over three days because it snowed 10 cm. Please tell me, where on the globe can the power grid collapse because of six inches of snow? So it's not a problem in 10cm of snow, it's a problem in some system neglect, in this case of electro-distribution. Imagine – no power, fixed phones are remote-crossed, which means no phones, no cell phones, no water. So, I was in that dark for 24 hours, so I came here now, but the citizens of a hundred villages still stayed in that dark, and today there's no electricity. I'm making an illustration, even though it's not a topic. So how am I supposed to explain to that citizen in the cave village, tutina, shadow or market, anyway, that we are close to joining the EU? So, this procedure will be easily removed, but what our citizen is facing in certain parts of this country is actually what needs to be our real fight in terms of meeting the conditions, or in terms of raising the water quality of our cultural and civilizational quality. Therefore, our obligation here on our part is to meet these standards. Procedurally, I say, we'll meet them easily, there's only a few left. Essentially and qualitatively, I think we need even more effort on that concept that we are also declaring, such as even regional development, etc. But basically here we have very strong gaps and we have to make sure that it is actually our contribution to EU accession. Also, on the part of the EU and the European Commission, I think there must be more hearing. There must be more hearing about our diversity, especially when it comes to spiritual principles, ethical principles. No EU citizen can feel like someone who needs a cliché to meet. The meaning of all the laws of the world is harmony or a step with tradition. Wherever it happened in human history that the laws were at odds with the tradition of that people, the tradition of that man, they were bad laws. They were making a mess. They were making a collapse. Yes, the European Union is historically primarily Christian, but I wonder if it's Christian now? In 2003 or 2004, I attended a debate with Milan in Kadenabia, when the topic was open, then as a religious chief, the European Constitution. We've had a very thorough discussion on this matter for a few days. So, on the very spirit of Europe. What is the spirit of Europe? Is that the Christian spirit of Europe? As a Muslim, I wish it were a Christian spirit. Let me tell you straight away, because that spirit would be closer to me than that ultraliberal, ultra-liberal, ultra-materialistic spirit, which is neither Christian nor Muslim, nor Jewish. The Balkans are even more layered there. So here we have the intertwination of both ancient Greece and Rome and Islamic culture and civilization, then we have also through Spain and Andalusia an Islamic civilization that has been there for over 700 years, so we have the fact that Sorbonne was founded by Muslims, if you didn't know, and many more, many such examples that it's not Europe's shortage, but the wealth of Europe. In fact, Europe should continue on this path, so that we Balkans, but also all of us who are different, confiscative, spiritually, ethically, understood ethically, cannot be made ethically clichés. Where you try to impose ethical clichés, that's when it pops. That's not gonna work. The European Union does not have it in its definition, but in bureaucrat practice, I am not sure. Somehow, in this practice and media, we have to be all ethically and culturally. No, we can't do that. Everything that is a pattern, especially administrative, is neither ethics nor culture. Ethics are what pulses in my heart, what I believe in. Everything I'm forced into is not ethics. It's a pendrek, it's some kind of repression. We don't need that. It will not bring good to Europe, especially to our country. When it comes to objections, I will not say that I am glad that these remarks exist, but what I am glad to see is the fact that the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have actually had the focus of their discussions on these issues. The issue of quality of work of the National Assembly is one of the most important issues in this country. Yes, there are shades. One of these nuances was both the ethical code and the congratulating MPs in the National Assembly that they resolved this issue so quickly and very well, I believe. That, I say, is from that pack of shades. Of course, many other shades will be fixed here, but the essence of the quality of Parliament's work will be in Parliament's position. Parliament, the National Assembly is the most legislative and supervisory body of this country. Gentlemen of the People, do not hope that someone will come from Brussels or from other structures of this government to offer you this status on the golden tray. No, he won't. In politics and generally in these relations is the right thing to do. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you will be when you decide to be that. If you are up to the position, or the status of a MP in all three senses, then you will be. Therefore, if you fight in this country for the executive authority to report here, to suit you, to choose them, to resolve them, to call for responsibility and to control you, then you will be what you need to be and do not expect to be helped by the EU or anyone else. We have to fight for it. Of course, when it comes to the rule of law, I have to say that we have done very much, especially in the legislative sense, and I am glad, here at the College and other opportunities of our communication, I see no opposition and I am glad that we have the will to perfect the legislation, and in this respect to the end. But what will remain of practice is just the application and especially the uniform application. As long as we are there in some New Market, in some Sjenica, in some Tutin, we have judges, prosecutors who get assignments from criminals, criminal clans or local politicians, we are free of anything that we need to iron out in a legislative sense, we are free of all procedures that we will fulfil in terms of the European Union's demands. That's why we have to have more power to tear the judicial authorities out of the claws of crime, not to let them in there, here's the latest practice we have the rule of 20 years of one government in Sjenica that has devastated the people, where auditors have found that millions have been stolen, abused. We now have a basic court in this Chamber, taking sides with those who have done so, trying to interfere with the new government. Why? Well, because for 20 years they belonged to the same organized crime and organized family. We must have the determination to also have these corners, the far corners of this country, actually protect us from these monsters by this calculation, by returning crime to the shahts, to the underworld, we will meet all the conditions and the ability to actually be in the European Union with all our spiritual, ethical and other cultural civilizational specialities, but of course by sharing the true universal European values, not only of these modern and problematic ones, but all of which in fact the entire human civilization has built its cultural and spiritual tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2287	Thank you very much. Exactly 19 and 54, I was just about ready to say. Thank you. Let's move on. Next in the size of the group, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2288	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear government members, colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, the SDA of Sandzak welcomes the adoption of a European Commission progress report for Serbia for 2020. As a parliamentary party, we have been fighting for Serbia's European and NATO integration for 30 years now. We are active participants in all democratic processes in the country, and we are making our contribution and a clear determination that all our political goals and all the problems we consider to be resolved, we are solving within the institutions of the system, condemning the use of force and violence to achieve political goals. We think it is good that parliament has defined itself as considering the European Commission's progress reports on Serbia. However, we argue that this process should have taken place much more carefully, should have taken place with the widest possible social dialogue, especially because of the fact that this is the first time we have considered the conclusions in the tide. Therefore, reports from previous years were to be agreed, conclusions should be drawn to which we would also refer, progress between these reports and ultimately for the conclusions and recommendations made by this latest report. For this reason, I would like to say at the very beginning that we will not support these conclusions, we have not participated in their adoption on the Committee on European Integration, nor will we continue to participate in their adoption in the plenary process. We did not want in any way to draw conclusions that do not respect the European Commission's core criticism of Serbia's progress in its European integration. We have been thinking for a long time and whether we should try to propose amendments to these conclusions and have decided not to propose them because we did not want our amendments to become an instrument for political reckonings with non-eminents in this assembly. Each European Commission report is an important parameter to measure the country's progress, in this case Serbia's progress in its European integration and implementation of recommendations on political, social and public life in our country. Especially when it comes to minority communities, the Progress Report is an extremely important instrument, an extremely important mechanism. Minority issues are reflected under negotiating Chapter 23. As part of the negotiating chapter, there is also a special part of the Action Plan, the Manin Action Plan, which refers precisely to minorities and this minority action plan from the aspect of Bosniaks is illegal, illegal and we do not recognise it. We do not recognise him for ignoring all the essential problems raised by the legitimate representatives of Bosniaks in the working group when writing the Action Plan. Bosniaks in Serbia have a large number of problems and unresolved issues. Our goal was to include all these issues and accumulated problems as part of this action plan. They were kicked out by the task force in the roughest way, and we therefore left work in the task force and did not give legitimacy to such an Action Plan. When making each European Commission report, significant data is collected from other European mechanisms, from other institutions at this European level, primarily the Council of Ministers and its mechanisms, primarily the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. We have been concerned about the many negative assessments Serbia has received in this report, and I would therefore like to present in this opening address key problems that the Assembly had to pay attention to in its conclusions. First, the minority protection system itself in the Republic of Serbia shows numerous shortcomings already in its root, and the roots are legal solutions, laws. In 2018, we adopted amendments to the Law on the Rights and Freedoms of National Minorities adopted in 2002. We have brought amendments and additions to the 2009 National Council of National Minorities Act. However, these changes were exclusively cosmetic. They didn't deal with essential issues. What you did not want to listen to at the time of our discussion and during the amendments that we submitted to these proposals for conclusions were found in this Report. The 2002 law no longer corresponds to the current situation, does not correspond to the current situation in which national minorities live in the Republic of Serbia and does not respect their specificities, their specificities and therefore it is necessary to pass a whole new law, a new roof law that will respect these specificities. In addition to being general and not respecting these specificities, it does not even regulate the field, this system of protection and the improvement of individual collective rights of minorities, nor provides an adequate response to involving minorities in social life. That concludes this report. Serbia has never implemented its obligation to pass a new law, a new roof law that would regulate the position of national communities and define the role of national minorities in the overall development of society in Serbia. What is the role of national minorities? What exactly do minorities contribute here? At present, such a relationship with minorities is like a foreign body that will either just disappear or need to be removed. Amendments to the Law on National Majorities of National Minorities have been further elaborated by this minority self-government body. The authorities elected in the direct elections today do not have the authority to take any binding opinion on any decision by the state authorities or decisions which essentially affect identity issues. If we return to Chapter 23, in the action plan, Serbia has committed itself to passing a new Law on the ban on discrimination. Of course she didn't do it today. Instead, we have a RTS which is found to have been rudely violated, that it has made discrimination against Bosniaks, that it has cruelly violated the provisions of Articles 6 and 24 of the applicable Law on Discrimination and Nothing. This is proof that such a system of protection of national minorities is principled, that it is formal, that it is not sufficient, that it does not provide adequate mechanisms for protecting and improving national rights. He does not offer punishment for those who apparently break those laws, restrict, or even challenge them. One of the most important segments in this report is also the issue of unprocessed war crimes from the 1990s, and we still have no punishment for the perpetrators of mass abductions in Sandzak and the murders, primarily kidnappings in the North and Strpci. The report also clearly and unequivocally points to a lack of respect for international courts' verdicts, the International Court for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague, and the genocide in Srebrenica continues to be denied here, war criminals continue to be exalted by top officials, the highest institutions, including the National Assembly. Crimes are not being prosecuted in other peoples, Albanians and Croats. The report also stressed that there is a major problem facing the past of war crimes convictions, war criminals' judges, the expression of pitets towards victims, that there is a problem in memory policy. Here, convicted war criminals are still free to do public work, free to deal with politics. That confirms this report, and the National Assembly ignores it. The report also found a huge difference in the level of realisation of national minorities' rights in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and in the rest of Serbia, so the level of feasibility of national minorities' rights in the AP Vojvodina is far higher than that in the rest of Serbia. We're talking about the same country, we're talking about the same laws, and this is proof of how much the introduction of new autonomous provinces is, in fact, inevitable not only from the aspect of achieving the rights of national minorities, but also from the aspect of the exercise of basic civil rights. This introduction of the middle level of government is a reduction of the gaps, a reduction of distances on the relation of citizens of the state. The economic situation of the national minorities has also been identified by this report, that it is extremely bad. Areas traditionally populated by Bosniaks, Albanians, Croats and Roma face continued underdevelopment. This is the situation seen by European agencies, European Commissions in charge of monitoring and monitoring ethnic discrimination, first in the European Commission's reports against discrimination, anti-racism and intolerance. Thus, one of the main problems in four reports, published for Serbia in the period 2007, 2011, 2014 and 2017, the disproportionate employment of minorities in state bodies with public authority, in the right order of the police are all prosecutors etc. and this is particularly said in Albanians, Croats, Bosniaks and Roma. The latest report by the Commission against racism in 2017 suggested for the first time the problem of undeveloped areas traditionally populated by national minorities. The European agency particularly apostrophes that unemployment in these areas ranges between 60% and 70%. There are still no measures that would clearly suggest how to solve this problem. In addition, the third and fourth opinions on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities for Serbia, which, in the evaluation of Article 15, directly related to the socioeconomic situation, indicate that areas traditionally populated by national minorities are facing continued unemployment and unemployment. The Committee of Experts pointed to the fact that the temporary measures themselves are not sufficient, that a system should be created that will provide an adequate response to this state and to the conditions of life in which members of national minorities live. In the first instance, it is an inclusion in public authorities with public authority. We therefore believe that in our conclusions, the National Assembly should pay particular attention to these issues and to the establishment of clear and effective mechanisms for the protection and promotion of individual and collective rights of minorities, respect for international judgments, judgments by international courts, clear deadlines for the adoption of the Law on the Rights and Freedoms of National Minorities, the Law on National Councils, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the improvement of the rule of law and equality before the law, the improvement of freedom of expression, freedom of expression, and how we all come together as a society for free, fair and democratic elections. According to us, the conclusions of the National Assembly had to answer these questions, and we will not support them. We're not going to take any further part in their adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2289	Thank you. Proposer Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2290	Thank you. It's the easiest thing to say hard sentences, be in opposition, criticise, not offer any solution. As I mentioned in my opening statement when we discussed conclusions on the Committee on European Integration there, a similar debate was opened and there I, as chairman, tried to respond and now I will do the same. Personally, as chairman of the Committee on European Integration, respecting indeed all the MPs of the Committee, among them the previous speaker, announced a week, 10 days earlier, as soon as we discussed at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that this plenary session was planned and we were looking for a business opportunity to organise it. In fact, it would be kind of logical that this is a proposal for a conclusion to consider the European Commission's report on European integration, but for this there is no business possibility, since this is really the first time ever. At that time, a debate was opened that was, well, necessary, we are interesting, interesting, significant Committee and then we tried to formulate these conclusions that were not much more discussed, but were then declared to be amendments and this is a unique debate and we all expected these amendments to the last moment, which perhaps the promoter or this representative would accept and would be an integral part of this text. This text is not so bad, so because of the public to explain these parts, and then not only as a representative of the national minority, but as someone who really dealt with these issues, I respond to scandalous accusations. So I really don't want to defend the government of the Republic of Serbia, I just want to explain some facts. The conclusions specifically state, if we quote, just the first or fifth, so the bottom line is that all the recommendations, all the criteria have to be met. So, the goal of all of us is to get Serbia into the EU as soon as possible and we cannot now write conclusions from several sides. All that is understood. It is well known what is in the Action Plan of the 20th, the 20th, which is in the special Action Plan for Minorities, perhaps some have forgotten that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a revised Action Plan for the 20th, the 20th, in July of this year, aware that we are late and have changed certain deadlines. With that, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination mentioned earlier. So, we stick to it, it's expected somewhere, I don't know first, second quarter, I don't know now by heart, next year. But let's go back to what it's like when you're a representative of a national minority who's trying to solve the problems detected on the ground and when you're a representative of a national minority, who's loudly shouting, and not offering a solution. So if you want to solve these people's problems that you represent, you have to have a proposal for solutions, cooperation, communication. That's exactly what was done in the previous period. The fact is that the EU does not have an AKI, which concerns this particular topic, and therefore the huge success and incredible thing that we have a special Action Plan for Minorities and, if I can say so, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the SVM have done a lot of work to make it simple. The special Action Plan for Minorities, he has been from recommendations, just recently mentioned as the "advitters cansil" that monitors how the Council of Europe's Convention on Minorities is being applied. And there's exactly what needs to be done. Among others were the obligations, the adoption of oritas of amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. So we can't say that they brought cosmetic changes. They were brought by inviting all national councils of national minorities. There is a co-ordination of national councils of national minorities, an incredible number, so I think right now Susana Paunovic could say exactly, but the number of those actors, the participants responsible for implementing a special action plan for minorities is a few dozen, I think that 60 and something, perhaps more, means special parts. There's nothing more transparent and visible to do. Of course, what SVM did in the past was offer a solution. If we have seen that certain laws need to improve the amendments, we have proposed amendments, correctly explained to the representatives, then it was in the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and in this way certain problems, namely that proportional representation of members of national minorities, have been resolved at least legally. Now we need to enhance that application. After that, it was necessary to adopt a regulation, so regulations were adopted by the government, which is why I really think that, as I say, critics, I do not want to use stronger terms, but they are not in place, so I felt that it was necessary for the public to explain both the rights and freedoms of members of the national minorities. Of course, there are more work to be done, but most of the work is about implementation, I think we can really praise that, without overly publicly praising the Government of the Republic of Serbia as part of the coalition, but it is amazing what has been done over the past period thanks to openness and understanding. So I think the solution is that if you think something is wrong, you suggest constructively, for example, in this case amendments, or something concrete, but I think the conclusion of 1 and 5 is what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2291	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2292	Thank you. I owe answers to remarks, remarks, comments and criticisms by MP Enis Imamovic and will begin with the easiest, with your remarks on the difference that this is in Vojvodina, as it is in the territory of all Serbia and I will share with you an anecdote from my life. In the early '90s of these holiday days, not Christmas days, but I was resurrected to Kraševec and then happened to match the date Easter which also celebrates the Roman Catholic Church and Easter which celebrates the Orthodox Church. And I said -- well, the damage this year is just one Easter, and the people around me were looking at me incomprehensiblely at what I'm saying. Because it's much better when you have two Easters, because twice you go to the guests, twice you get cookies, twice you get presents. You have to have two Christmases. According to one high-ranking journalist, in Serbia the season of Christmas and Easter in Vojvodina is an illustration of your commitment to respect and respect each other and to understand how rich it is for the other to be different. It's the application of part of history, part of the eternal duke spirit when there are many colorful and the only way to live is to live in harmony with one another. However, regardless of whether they live in Vojvodina or any other part of Serbia, the right to law enforcement is equal. Then we'll talk about law enforcement. Your objection regarding the missing laws or draft laws on recommendations was the subject of a meeting with the National Councils on 24 November 2020, where we proposed national councils and coordination to discuss at least three topics of open social dialogue by the end of this year. It is the first topic of the 2021 census, to be implemented and implemented so that national minorities, national councils do not have any objections, but to understand that this is a process that we all need, to know how many things there are, how many people there are, how many things, to be in languages, to be with the participation of minorities, etc. The second proposal to the national councils is to open dialogue and listen to the solutions that the 2022 elections will be held. So if the national advice itself said this bothers us, we would fix this, this in this way, etc. by the end of 2020. Thirdly, the proposals for national councils on how to be represented on public service programmes, first of all RTS, since RTV has a law that applies to both one and the other public service what is informative, cultural and any other minority programme. Representativeship of members of the national community The ministry will be here by the end of the year and will officially have a secretary of state whose exclusive jurisdiction will be the application of national minorities' rights at local level, as it is where life begins. So, not the representativeness of members of the national minorities is just a number, it shows that we want to live together, but we have a law that allows us to live together, so there should also be representatives of national minorities not only in the administration of the state administration, but in all sectors of life and national minorities that are relatively compact and other national minorities scattered across the territory of Serbia. We have equal rights, ethnic diversity, national origin must not be the cause and cause of discrimination, not law enforcement is the responsibility of the Ministry and the Government, and you are here to say that it is not applicable if it is not applied. A law prohibiting discrimination. Working groups at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue for the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Equal Partnership and on Amendments and Supplements or the new Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination is under way. Because the existing proposals mean almost 49% of the provisions to change, and then we need a social dialogue to see if we will respect the single methodological rules of the National Assembly and to give a new bill or we will only go through changes and additions. And that's what national councils should be involved in, and I'd like the MPs to participate. The status of war criminals who have served their sentences by judicial order. I can agree with you that the topic of war crimes is not a subject which is actually spoken of in Serbia without passion and which is spoken of in accordance with the culture of human rights on which our Constitution was built and all that we later translated into laws. What I have to answer, and I think you know that, there is no regulation, there is no law that you can forbid a person who has served his sentence to do any work. What kind of message is that? That could be the subject of social dialogue. I understood that there would be an initiative for social dialogue other than what the Ministry would build. I will be very happy to see your proposal on what to be a topic, who to be a participant, how long to last, what to be recommendations and conclusions and you are welcome to the Ministry with such a proposal. The last topic you mentioned was the harmonisation between the Framework Convention on the Human Rights of the Council of Europe, how minority rights are monitored by the EU and what Serbia is doing. I can only agree with the chairman of the Committee, Commissioner Elvir Kovac, that if you compare other countries that are in the same phase of accession or similar and compare countries that are in the region or compare Europe at all, we will not give up the law on common living standards between members of the majority and minorities. This is an obvious thing that led us in the ministry to start building a political will to, through the Berlin Process or through the co-operation of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights of the member states of the Berlin Process, initiate this European spirit that we normally change society, with the aim of talking and adopting as a joint regional document of the then Small Charter or the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which the state union of Serbia-Montenegro adopted in February 2003, to speak together as a region about a single document that we want ourselves in the region to commit to respect for minority rights under the Universal Human Rights Corps. I repeat, you are welcome to the Ministry. I understand you don't want to participate in this process. It is your right, which I defend personally and institutionally. You don't want to participate in the National Council, same as your right. Regardless, if your answer is that you do not want to participate in the construction of social dialogue, I will say again – your right and, believe it or not, I will repeat the call in this Assembly for your arrival and the construction of dialogue as long as you and I are in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2293	Thank you, Minister. The word has Enis Imamovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2294	Thank you. I'll try to be extremely brief. So, when it comes to our proposals to solve these problems, they are contained in the resolution to resolve the status of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, which we handed over to the National Assembly on 2 February 2015. All these suggestions we've been talking about, and they're going to be five years now. We talk about them in every place. This isn't the first time you've faced these suggestions that we've made about changes in laws, roof laws, respecting the facts. I said, we couldn't handle the amendments. I said why we couldn't handle the amendments. Because we don't want our amendments, from the experience that we have with the previous sessions of this call, to make the amendments we're proposing an instrument of reckoning with some extraparliamentary parties. We just didn't want to. It is our right to refuse to participate in these conclusions in this way. I'm not saying that changes to these laws are necessary, this report says, that the laws do not respect the state in which members of national minorities live. When it comes to coordination, there is co-ordination of the National Councils of National Minorities, among other things, this coordination proposes a number of solutions, including seven co-ordinated proposals when it comes to amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act. None of these seven proposals were adopted, and came from a co-ordination of 22 national councils of national minorities. In the end, I am pleased that the national community represented by counterpart Kovac is not in a report that says that Hungarians are insufficiently represented in state authorities with public authority. However, the Commission's report on the non-tolerance and prevention of racism for 2004, 2007, 2011, 2014, 2017 states that the continued members of Albanian, Bosniak, Croatian and Roma nationalities face discrimination in the employment of state authorities with public powers. That is what European reports say, I convey what the European reports which are an integral part of the European Commission's progress report on Serbia say.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2295	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2296	So these are permanent mechanisms, permanent European mechanisms that we should respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2297	Thank you, Mr. Imamovic. The proposing representative always has the right to appear indefinitely, which is from the vice president, Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2298	I thank you, but I'm going to be extremely tolerated and I'm going to try to get into the intended two minutes for the replica. I don't want to address anyone directly, but just to be clear. The resolution we're talking about was in the congregation procedure, I don't know if it's still in the congregation procedure, but it's a practice to pull back and put up with it again. I mean, personally, as a representative of the national minority, it might not be a bad idea to discuss this issue, but to point out that this resolution is extremely similar, which doesn't have to be a plagiarism, to a resolution adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the rapporteur was... (incomprehensible), extremely important so that I think maybe we can discuss this topic, and there are no concrete solutions proposed for Serbia, but it is in general the implementation of the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe continues to work on the issue. I'm a reporter, and when this whole pandemic is over and we see how it's done, we expect another resolution to be adopted. So we can open that topic up. The second thing we talked about was EKRI. I did not run away from it, even in my opening statement, I stressed that regardless of the good laws, because from 2014 to 2020, several laws have been passed and amendments have been adopted that are currently relating to the proportional representation of members of national minorities in the almost entire public sphere and the report finds it, means the European Commission's report that, regardless of which, there are still problems in practice, and once again, the implementation of which is significant. I stressed that effective application is actually necessary in order to adequately, meaning improvement thanks to these laws, also in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2299	Thank you. Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2300	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, although Col. Comic has largely responded to some of the remarks of the previous speech, I must note that there has been a fundamental chase of the pot when it comes to European integration. Only one of the segments of instruments that measure only a measure of a European path or progress in European integration. We are not discussing the report here, as I understand it, but we are discussing the conclusions that the National Assembly is making for the first time in the tide. I think it is a very good initiative, with the need to say that as a minister, who has done this duty in the past five and a half years, every time I have come, among my first activities was before the Committee on European Integration, always in full capacity and with all the necessary documents and associates, to get out of this mantra that European integration is a process for a self-proclaimed pro-European elite, already European integration is a process for society as a whole. It's a process in which everyone has a role to play. I am sorry that you, MP, experience only through the prism of the national minority, are experiencing, among other things, the report and the process of European integration itself as a particular instrument for achieving its special particular interests. This year 2020 has shown that the process of European integration is no longer a topic of speed or distance, the theme is the depth of sustainability of changes that will bring the whole of the EU and all countries of Europe to be more sustainable and economically and healthy, in the context of overall sustainable development. That is why the EU has also brought a new green agenda and digitisation, as new instruments for Europe's growth and sustainability, including those of us living in Europe. Thus, European integration policy is a top cross-cutting policy involving each ministry, in which every government body, which is part, participates in the National Assembly, in which civil society participates. I am sorry that the presidents of the National Convention today did not accept the invitation, calling on the so-called diplomatic dictionaries to say, diplomatic disease, because they themselves have deprived themselves of the exclusiveness and privileges they have as a national convention and civil society in the process of European integration. As regards the rights of national minorities, it is already mentioned here that there is an action plan under Chapter 23. Chapter 23 is now part of cluster 1 – fundamental rights, where we have opened all five of the five chapters. The methodology has changed. Change the terminology, all of you. I changed first. What does the action plan mean for achieving the rights of national minorities? Otherwise, in 2016 it was estimated that it would be good to adopt such a special plan. The plan does not know any such obligation was not known by any accessioning country except Serbia. I consider it our advantage, because we showed that, in addition to everything that's so-called. The soft right in the area of national minorities, which is all the conventions that you have mentioned among other things and that Parliament's Kovac said does not exist, does not exist, but does not need to exist because it is the fundamental value of the EU, it is the fundamental value on which the EU assembly rests. We are not only signatories to all international conventions, especially European conventions, but we are indeed above the level and in legislation, so if you want the true meaning above the level of many European countries. It's been in all the reports, especially since 2016. How could you not see that? I have an analysis, I've read every report in the last ten years, and the one before 2012, I know it almost by heart. There's another thing I really don't like, which I keep seeing being played into the circulation of public speech, which is to promote some collective national rights. There are no collective national rights, it's all the opposite of European values. European values know exclusively the only human rights, so human rights and freedoms including the rights of minority members, of all minorities, not only of national minorities. Therefore, please do not talk about an idea of the opposite European spirit of the collective rights of minorities. It doesn't exist. Not to mention that many European countries, when I say Europeans in this context, I mean EU members, do not know the category of national minorities at all, which I think is very bad and that it reflects some processes both within the EU and among EU members. As you can see, it also reflects the approach process of those who, for example, should have started negotiations, so they didn't. I mean Northern Macedonia, Albania, etc. There are roles and effects, among other things, and these problem-solving not only legislative but also different ways in general of the legislative framework related to national minorities. Therefore, I really think that with this approach where you are looking at the Progress Report or the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, look out, it is only part of the process, European integration is a top cross-sectoral policy of sustainable development and this year has proved it. These are just instruments that in one part, of course, measure, like someone said here, and they judge us, give us twos, threes and the other, don't even look at it that way. Then we do not understand European integration as a whole process. The society and social dialogue that someone here mentioned about the fundamental values of the EU or whether we are for the EU or not, it has been overcome. Not that we're in the debate whether we're for the EU or not? What are we, against the EU, against the concept? Well, who gets into such debates anymore? Are you opposed to progress in what is a civilization range? Of course not. Of course, we have our specifics, as someone said, that are conditioned by a set of historical events, that we don't go in and we don't go back into the past all the time, but in any case, it's not a debate. It is not a debate to reconcile whether we are for the EU or not, but how we can all be sustainable together, how we can all achieve sustainability in Europe together, and that this continent and we are all together with it, both the EU and we who are on the path of such crises as this year has shown, this terrible year, we overcome in the best possible way. Be careful, the EU concept is created as a concept that introduces a dialogue of peace and solidarity instead of wars that have destroyed the European continent for centuries. I'm not gonna say hundreds of years, really for centuries. Well, we're not against it, are we? Of course we're up for it. It's only now that the question of how we can join together in resistance. That is why the EU has this year brought an economic investment plan and adopted an incentive plan for the Western Balkans, where large funds are being identified to bring us into line with the green and digital agenda as new economic policies for sustainable economic development. That's why it's a new methodology. Because it was seen that this process went one step forward, two steps back, whether we opened one chapter or not. Please, when we opened three or four chapters a year, the criticism was – it doesn't matter what we opened the chapter, it's important to close them. If we don't open one, why didn't we open one? Well, it's such a boring experience of European integration. European integration is a top cross-cutting policy, a task for each member of the government, for every MP and for every institution of the system. Careful, European integration is not a unilateral process. We're not the only ones who adapt. The EU, which receives a new member, from its budget to various other instruments, must, of course, agree and emulate with the new member. It's a two-sided process. Let's not talk about how much enlargement policy I'm not going into these topics right now. But really, I think you misunderstood the process as a particular instrument to meet your needs, so to speak, the works of the minority community you represent. I am sorry that there are so many divisions among the minority communities in Serbia, among other things in Bosniak. Sustainableness is not based on differences, but on united and tight forces. I think this year has shown it, and I believe that we should understand this process in the right way. This is a process of sustainability that we, with the rest of Europe, will get into the track of change and sustainable development. Now, are there any political matters? That will be, I believe, during today's discussion enough time to discuss it, but I really had to intervene on this. Another thing, just one more thing. You said about the National Minority Council. You know what, I understand that you were talking about the middle level of government, but the National Minority Council is not a local self-government, not an organ of local self-government. It must be very precise and clearly defined and roles and ways of working, and I think that we have done it in the best possible way and in that segment, the third report in a row is not only a deterioration, but also a legislative framework and a common practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2301	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2302	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I must tell you at first, I understand your grisly display, there's no need for you to yell at us here. Still, you're a guest here, we're hosts here.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2303	She yells at everything, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2304	Well, someone has the right to stand up, someone doesn't. I wouldn't want him to keep yelling at me, I'd like to keep talking in some normal tone, as I'm going to try to explain why I'm focusing on minority rights. Your Honor, I'm here as a representative of a minority. I've been elected on the minority list. I have been chosen by members of the Bosniak people to represent their interests in this Assembly and if the interests of the Bosniak people in this Assembly are to be pointed out in the European Commission's report that Bosniaks are discriminated on in certain fields and that I will use my right and opportunity to point out these problems and to ask that they be resolved within the frameworks of the institutions of the system, including within the National Assembly in which you and we are sitting today. You say there are no collective minority rights. I'd like to ask you what language is? Is the language collectively the right of a minority? What's culture? Is it individual or collective? Minister, please don't teach me what individual and collective rights are. So, I invite you, I said that we want constructively, that you didn't like some of the things I said, that's politics. This is a political body. We can't talk the same way. We're not members of the same party. We are not members of the same policies. Here we choose, among other things, to express a different opinion and to try to include that opinion in the acts adopted in this house. What's the matter? I hope it is not disputed that we have presented and pointed to the parts of the Report that we are looking for as representatives, legitimate representatives of the Bosniak people, to be incorporated into the conclusions that the National Assembly is making. We cannot participate in making these conclusions if they ignore our basic individual and collective rights as a people. We ask you to respect the Constitution and the law of your country, the Constitution and the laws that you have passed, by which we choose here and by which we have the right to use...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2305	Enys, since it's been two minutes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2306	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr. President, for making it too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2307	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2308	Just for a little while. So we have heard here many times that in the Progress Report made by the European Commission it says that Bosniaks are discriminated against. I beg, and for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I must say that this is not true. So, to break it up, dialogue is great. Awesomely, we can discuss a lot of things here, but what's not true is not true. Tell me – on which side does the Progress Report say that Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia are discriminated against? If anything, the Republic of Serbia boasts several times over these years for its attitude towards national minorities, as Minister Joksimovic said. So it seems to me that we can be an example of many EU Member States that do not have defined national minorities within their own countries. There are no people who are national minorities, then. All French or Bulgarian, no national minorities. I am proud that Serbia is such a state. I think it's the strength of Serbia, that this diversification is the strength of Serbia. I'm always up for it to sit down and see how we can make it stronger. Please, therefore, now that we are talking about the Progress Report, this is not true and offensive and for those who wrote this report for both the European Commission and all partners in the EU in the National Assembly to say that something is not written. So if it says tell me which side it says so, and I'll apologize for reading that report several times, especially those parts where the criticism was brought to our account. I didn't see that. Then, if you want to run politics like that, again, as Minister Comic said, your right. I don't think it's correct for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or for your voters to tell the truth. Again, and once again when we talk about democracy and dialogue, you know, if you say -- we've been thinking for a long time whether to propose amendments, but we haven't proposed amendments. We didn't agree with the Working Group that worked on making minority laws, we left work in the Working Group. We will not participate in the conclusion of the National Assembly. Guys, it's not democracy, it's not dialogue. The minority action plan is an action plan that has been democratically adopted. It was attended by all the national councils of the national minorities who wanted to work on it. He can't be illegal or illegal because he didn't want one piece of advice, one of the 23 he didn't want to work on. It can't be. It's not democracy, people. It's democracy how our opposition understands it or part of our opposition, which is – if I don't have a majority, then it's not democracy. If you have a majority it's not democracy, if I don't, then it's dictatorship. People, democracy is democracy. So you have a majority, you don't have a majority, you participate in some democratic processes, you don't participate in some democratic processes. It's the same thing because it's more of a right and we're all fighting for it your right. But you can't say – I don't want to participate in the assembly's conclusions, I left the Workgroup's work, I don't want to be proud of the amendments and then you say – why didn't you hear me? Because you chose not to hear from each other. It's not democracy and it's not dialogue. And once again in the report, it doesn't say what you say it says, which is actually the most important thing in this whole debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2309	Thank you. The word has Enis Imamovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2310	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, therefore, when it comes to making a report from the European Commission, I said in the discussion, I am glad to hear that you have listened very carefully to me in certain segments. I am sorry that you have not heard that, when writing each report from the European Commission, data is collected from everyone at European level, primarily data from the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Europe, such as the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages, such as the European Commission's report against racism and intolerance, which, in its reports, speaks in four reports 2004, 2007, 2011, 2014 and 2017 about everything that I have been talking about here. So, when we consider proposals for the conclusions of the National Assembly, we cannot be selective, because the European Commission's report is also not selective but based on the report of all European mechanisms. So, European mechanisms, the Council of Europe, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the European Charter... . Anna Brnabic: Where does that say? Which side? Don't lie to the citizens of Serbia. Please read the report. You read the report, you can find it. So we have to say the following, you say... . Anna Brnabic: Which side of the report? ) Please, don’t get used to it, I would like us to maintain the level of debate that is worthy of this National Assembly. It's in the report. Anna Brnabic: Which side of the report? Where does that say in the report? ) So, in order not to get used to it, please, this is where it's spoken, I showed, among other things, that I asked the National Assembly, that, in its conclusions, it would follow all the recommendations, all the reports that affected the writing of the European Commission. The European Commission report says, I'm telling you which side and that, it's a little rude, you know, it's a little rude, you're not my teacher, you know, that I would suit you which side, etc. I'm not here for your exam, you're not the one who needs to judge me. I'm the one who needs to evaluate you. I say from the point of view of the Bosniaks, you failed this exam. And that it is my right not to participate in the debate, and that it is my right not to propose amendments and to say that the way these conclusions have been reached is illegal. And it is our right to say that the act, an action plan that ignores all the problems the Bosniaks face, is illegal to us. It may be legitimate for other members of the national minorities, but it is not legitimate for us, because all the essential problems facing the Bosniak people in Serbia have been eliminated from it. We asked them to be part of the action plan, if we want this Action Plan to help restore the confidence of Bosniaks in the state and in state authorities with public authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2311	Thank you. It's time for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2312	I will not continue to participate in this debate. We come into a situation where we break our dignity, to bring down the dignity of the people we represent, by putting the prime minister here as some kind of teacher. President, I'll let you know, I'll go. Then I'll answer, well, you grade me. Please don't play teacher here, you're not my teacher, you're not my teacher, you're not anyone's teacher.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2313	Thank you. Jadranka Joksimovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2314	Indeed, I'm going to stop this debate very briefly, but a few things you've said. First, you said that language and culture are collectively right. No, they're not. They are a factor in the protected position of national minorities, and they are not the right. As long as you represent that kind of rhetoric, then know what you're talking about. Secondly, you've had one misogenous performance towards me, because you called me Minister, I am not Nusic's character, and I am not the wife of the minister, I am the minister. So put it into the vocabulary, I'm sorry we don't have a debate culture to listen to the answer, but okay. If you really think, here, unfortunately, the MP has come out, the burden of proof is on you, which is why the Prime Minister asked you to say, on which side exactly it says, because you've brought out something that's not really true. Citizens from here, from this Parliament, from this building must hear the truth, or at least, the right facts, and they must create the truth as close to their beliefs and their view of the world. But from here, the facts have to come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2315	Thank you. Elvira Kovac, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2316	The Honorable President, president and members of the government, I am really sorry that my colleague came out, but, well, typical proof of how it works here, I don't want to participate, I just want to make a circus, and it's sad that if I don't want to go in after this session, which is extremely high-quality, there's an argument going on, it's like I think someone's yelling at me, and the way I'm acting, it's gonna be scandalous for me. But unlike some, we are having an argument, and as the Prime Minister said, to point out which part of the national minorities is on which side, so let me, since it's not much, a few sentences, that what I was talking about, since our Ministry of European Integration translated the Report from English into Serbian. So in the part of the fundamental right, which concerns minorities, what we were talking about -- the legal framework for respect and protection of minorities and cultural rights, broadly established and generally has support in line with the Council of Europe Framework Convention, which we have been talking about, for the protection of national minorities. In its fourth opinion, the Council of Evoropa's advisory committee (ununderstandable), means, only that the facts on the application of this Convention are not distorted, has laid down noticeable derogations on the protection of minority rights between the AP Vojvodina and other regions of Serbia, recommending improving the protection of the rights of national minorities outside Vojvodina. The advisory committee also stressed the need to establish a sustainable framework and collect data to revitalise interethnic relations, taking into account the need for the majority in Serbian society to be involved in the integration and involvement of national minorities. The implementation of an action plan for the exercise of the rights of national minorities in Serbia, the relevant legislation, must lead to a concrete improvement in efficiency, what I have talked about several times today, the effective exercise of the rights of individuals belonging to national minorities, in the whole country, the National Minorities Fund has been increased, the catalogue of the most common Albanian names and last names has been created, in order to allow for the correct introduction of such names into the parent books, which is also important for minority representatives, local advice for international relations has been established in each of the 73 municipalities, in which such obligations are prescribed by law, but the full application of their mandate still needs to be achieved in some municipalities, because members of the council have not always been appointed or are not often met. Despite the legal obligation, and I have already talked about this, it means that the ethnic composition of the national minority population is still insufficiently represented in the state administration, and that is a sentence. There is no mention of discrimination against Bosniaks or anyone. Authorities have started collecting data on the representation of national minorities, based on amendments I have talked about and commitments taken, because this is the basis for us to address the problem. So we're solving a particular problem. Under the amended Law on State officials, during the state of emergency, the Office for Human and Minority Rights, and the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, organised an information campaign in 12 minority languages on preventive measures against Kovid 19. This progress has been made in the fields of education, preparation and printing of textbooks in the languages of national minorities and has brought positive results, providing additional nine textbooks in Albanian, meaning praise. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has included 24 new sets of textbooks in Albanian, in its catalogue of basic school textbooks, in order to carry out this task, more work is needed, new teaching programmes for teaching Serbian as an immaterial language have been adopted, which is significant for all minorities, especially those whose native language is very different from Serbian. The publication of textbooks in the languages of national minorities, for use in secondary schools, remains limited, access to worship in minority languages still needs to be made possible throughout Serbia. Public broadcasting in minority languages has not yet been extended enough, outside of Vojvodina. After privatising media broadcasting programmes in minority languages is still fragile and dependent on funding and that is it. I was correct in quoting what was said, for the sake of fully reasoned information to the public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2317	Thank you. Let's move on to the debate. The word is Dragan D. Marković – Palma. I have to stress this "D" because there is a M. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2318	Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the European Commission's report is expected for the reason that the European Commission and individual EU countries are looking at how to stop Serbia on the European path. They know that this report is not as it was written by the European Commission, that such a report, Angela Merkel, would ban investors from coming from Germany to Serbia, where German investors employ 60 and a few thousand workers, France too, Italy, from talking about America. They say human rights have been violated, minority, does not stand in the report. Today, the best indicator is that one member of the minority party, Lady Elvira, responded to another member of another national minority that was wrong. And that's ten times stronger than we, politicians, or you, ministers who gave answers. So that it may not be now - we have a position so we do not respect that national minority. They're not right. If they were right, Erdogan would not change his policy towards Serbia, which has changed by a thousand percent, in the sense that Serbia no longer sees the way it looked at earlier years, that Serbia today is something else and that Serbia deserves, although Turkey is not an EU member, to join the EU. To whom does Serbia complain because the Brussels Agreement is not respected? A pimp? Macron has the greatest power in Europe after Angela Merkel and wants to inherit Angela Merkel. Makron comes to Serbia, puts his hand on the heart, Serbian brothers, etc., but has not rebelled that Croatia has introduced fruit and vegetables taxes 22 times larger than they were. And Croatia is the local community of the European Union. Perhaps he respects and values us, and we do not ask that they change their minds when it comes to independent Kosovo, because then they would not be able to justify NATO aggression and bombs that were falling into Yugoslavia, but my message is personal to Macron – Mr Makron, Serbs have begun to doubt France, that France is not a friend to Serbia. Jacques Chirac was president when Serbia was bombed. Bernard Kouchner was UNMIK's first civilian representative at KIM. And then we said, "Only if Bernard Kouchner goes away, it'll be much better." Hans Hekerup came, etc., etc. So France has a great influence in the European Union. We respected everything, as did the Minister for European Integration. How come now, we've opened 18 of the 35 chapters and now we're not meeting the conditions? Why did they bomb Serbia? To whom should Serbia complain? Do you know that these are the hit men, the pilots, who bombed Yugoslavia? Each of the soldiers takes an oath, us who were in the army, if necessary, and I will give my life for my country. What were they looking for in Yugoslavia when they bombed Yugoslavia? Serbia must not give up on those hit men finding their place in The Hague. The policy led by this government and the president of the state has contributed that more those on Interpol's warrant to commit war crimes in Kosovo are not released when they are caught somewhere in the world, as it was in earlier years. Today, they are conducted in a court designed for the war crimes of Kosovo Albanians with a location in The Hague. And that's a huge result of the international policy run by this country. Also, we constantly have some blackmail and keep asking Serbia for something, as Serbia allegedly failed to respect. And why were we bombed? It's Rack. Did any of the convicts in The Hague have a Racak charge? It's not. As the Markals were invented, so the Republika Srpska was bombed because of the market, where they sacrificed their countrymen just to show Europe and the world how threatened they are. They say -- well, the opposition doesn't have the right, like some other party's right, etc. That's not true, people. But, watch out, if that opposition ever competed in the first Super League, then they fell into the second league, so they fell into the Serbian league, then into the zone, today they're not competing anywhere. And they want to have a delegate in the community of first leaguers! Where's that? So, how does the president of the state, the Prime Minister, talk to someone who doesn't compete? To go back to using my sports term again, it's the same as some club that was in the first super league, it's turned out and no longer competes and constantly makes them wait for those who achieve high scores. Now, that's what this opposition does. So they're threatening the freedom of movement of Serbian citizens, attacking institutions. Is that what this report says? It's not standing. So, for this report, we can freely find out that it's malicious and it's not what it's written, because they don't have any material evidence of whether or not minority rights are in danger. No, they're not. Minority rights are at stake for those who are allegedly not in power. I remember very well when Sulejman Ugljanin was in office, he called Serbia a mother, this is mother Serbia, and today he is not in power and now he thinks he hangs some mark on Serbia as Serbia works badly, does not respect minority rights, etc. And all that, ladies and gentlemen, is not true. We need to see how we behave in the next period of time. Europe and these powerful countries are also bothered by the president's leaving and fighting for respirators, for the sick. I don't understand why they resented us for thanking China first. Well, China sent help first. Then we thanked the other EU countries as well. And they put that in our favor. If I hadn't read it three times, I wouldn't have believed it, ladies and gentlemen. Furthermore, I disagree with the term – this Enlargement Commissioner is good. They're all good. I've even met one, and we hugged each other, brother, you Serbs do your best, etc. But personal change does not change global politics over Serbia. That's what we need to know. When Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic was inauguration, he was Stefan File. I say -- people, now we're going forward, this one came, he confessed to this power. What are the reports? Nothing. Nothing. And we need to talk in Brussels. You know that it is not Belgrade and Pristina that are talking there, but that is where Belgrade, several EU and US countries are talking. That's what we have to tell the citizens of Serbia. And it is not the infirmity in our representatives representing Serbia, but the supremacy of those, or those who bombed Serbia and those who want to make our hat today, but they can't do it like they used to. Serbia is today much economically stronger than it was before. That bothers them. Because when you have economic power, then there's independence in the sense that you have to listen to someone from Europe command you what you, as an internationally recognised state, are going to do and who you listen to. This government and the president listen to Serbian citizens. Look, they were looking for an ultimatum, they were constantly setting up some ultimatums for Serbia -- that we can no longer visit those countries that want to withdraw recognition of KIM independence and ban Dacic from going to those countries and, of course, told Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, I don't know if the government presidents said they didn't remember to stop the tour of Albanians, and they were buying recognition of KIM independence from some other countries. And when they lost there, e, a small Serbia beat Germany, France, Great Britain, America, at the vote, when it comes to whether or not Kosovo, I will not say so-called Kosovo, and there, Ministers, is not so-called Kosovo, we can say "so-called kidnapped", but Kosovo is Serbian, and they did not, or did not have a majority to enter Interpol. That's our big win. From then on, we'll have a lot of problems, but we consciously did it. If we had lost then, any other Serb born in KIM would have been on the Interpol list and those defending the Serb people. So, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has one lightning development. And when we look at countries in the environment, we're even two, three times stronger than those countries. They mind that Serbia and military are armed, but we are not buying weapons to attack someone, but to defend Serbia if we are attacked by our neighbours. The rhetoric used by Croatia, BiH, so the rhetoric is being obtained from several states to attack Serbia and politicians from those countries want to make political profit on it, to re-controversy the people, like this Sulja who spoke today. Well, enough of the people of war, they want to work. We can never forget what was and what was happening and the wars of the previous, but the people will, both Bosniak and Serbian, work, even the Albanian people, but these militant rhetoric and terms are returning one, the second, third, fifth people that once made Yugoslavia, to come to the test that, behold, Serbia again doesn't do something, again Serbia bothers you, etc. So, who does Serbia touch? Well, I haven't heard from any of the ministers, or the president of the state, that something first attacks a country in the environment, except that we've been culturally responding to them. Well, where more culturally, will the Wolf go to visit Srebrenica and barely get his head out alive? And after a few days came the son of Ali Izetbegovic, Izetbegovic, and he led him to the Prince of Michael, the people, the Prince of Michael, where he had no ugly word from the citizens who had seen him at that location. Serbia is for a peaceful policy, Serbia is to keep what it is and it will not, I'm sure, happen that someone on the outside is ordering us what we're going to do. We must also conclude that the largest number of foreign investors, when it comes to Balkan countries, come to Serbia. And how do we comment, and how do we conclude that German factories are coming to Serbia? We can't explain that. The country that is most developed in the European Union, which has another culture, and we Serbs are not good, beware of the rich, we are not good. Well, why did you come to Serbia if we're not good? Neither left Serbia, nor the investor who brought the capital left Serbia for failure to comply with the contractual obligations. And today, there are a lot of these investors waiting to get through this evil, so they can come and open factories and hire people. I, ladies and gentlemen, have visited a lot of countries and wanted to show that I don't need a ministerial post to go to countries and I've been accepted at the highest level. I was the only politician who was at Donald Trump's inauguration in America. There I saw then the graves of those who died during the aggression of some countries where there were battlefields. These are natural flowers, etc. Both their family, children and grandchildren receive money from those who bombed Serbia. Well, how are you not ashamed to spend your money, and your fathers and grandfathers bombed and killed civilians? What are the faults of the citizens of Barvarina, when a bomb fell on a bridge in Barbarian and over 15 civilians died, of which seven children, on the day of the fair? What's the fault of those in Nis, where the tape bombs and bombs with the poor uranium were dropping? Today in Serbia, every fifth woman today, then a girl, can't carry out pregnancy, just because of NATO hell, not NATO Pact, NATO Hell. And we'll never forget that. And we received them all human and those who pressed the button to bomb Yugoslavia and Serbia, in order to come on, what was, we can't forget, let's work together in the next period of time. To whom does Serbia complain about all this? Is the older Resolution 1244 or the Brussels Agreement? Where did Resolution 1244 take place? At the Security Council, 15 countries make up the Security Council, five are in constant session, without the consensus of the five countries, there is no change in any resolution. China and Russia will never allow that resolution to change. And what do we respect today? Serbs respect both, Albanians and the international community and those who wrote these texts do not respect them. To whom should we complain, is there an address to find out and say – you answer us these questions? Why is the late formation of the Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija? Is that our fault? They say - not according to the Constitution. What Constitution? Well, what is it with the Serbian Constitution that you kidnapped Serbia? And who's responsible for that? There, the text was always waiting for representatives of Serbia, and Serbian representatives fought as hard as they could. A moment ago when Mrs. Minister spoke, she could not speak about the subject of her body, but of a tone similar to the answer that resembles the way lies were presented. And no one can blame that. We have to send the right picture to the world, ask McCron, who says: "Serb brothers, you are my brothers, come on, Mr. McCron, look at this report, is this report real or not, and what did you do to your "yellow vests" who walked through Paris and several cities in France? You beat them. And the police didn't beat those who entered an institution called RTS, so maybe there was a little push. What did those who were not parliamentarians ask to enter the Assembly? You know what, I said four, five days ago, there are unions, there is representativeness. Well, my friend, you're not representative. The representation is that you have 3% and over 3%, and we will have for the next elections to form Belgrade on the water, one of the million. I will now propose, here, and Radio Moravia plic to form a party and ask for the reception of the Prime Minister, President of the Parliament, to participate them, to be someone who can participate in the dialogue. Well, where are you going to get a bigger discount than this country gave in the election year? It never happened, to reduce the censorship from 5% to 3% in the election time period. We, the SNS and some other parties have been collecting signatures, where the notary was certified, and these others, who could never collect signatures from the notaries, are allowed to collect signatures from the local self-government. So, what now? Now it's our fault again. So, ladies and gentlemen, this European Commission report is not worth anything to me at all, except that they want to shut the door or scare us of something, and they have nothing to scare us of, and they have nothing to scare us of, because everything we've done, we've done according to the law. How many laws have we passed in parliament to join the EU? Some laws may harm the budget of our citizens, but they promised us to join the EU 10 years ago, five years ago, etc. In the end, let me finish, since my time is up. To wish a happy New Year to the citizens of Serbia, to wish the government a lot of success and to fight for what the citizens have given them confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2319	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2320	Well, here, I am pleased to have heard the MP and president of Mr Markovic's parliamentary group, because this shows pluralism in thinking about European integration, the EU, etc. When I listen to you, MP Markovic, I have the impression that you are something anti-European, and I personally think that you have contributed greatly to the promotion of European ideas by being good hosts of Vienna and Paraly and everywhere you went with businessmen and farmers, especially from your region, but also from all regions of Serbia. I think that was the right way and that you have shown in practice that you recognise the value of Serbia's EU membership. Whether there are any political poisonings and distinctions, surely there are. I think what you're talking about and what you're saying to yourself, you can't explain how it is that German companies, French companies, Austrian, Italian, etc. They're coming to Serbia. Among other things, because Serbia is on the European path. Among other things, because every serious company, when it creates a country's reputation for their investment, for their capital, and how it counts, as you would as a privateer certainly do when you invest somewhere, is the country in which the rule of law is respected. The rule of law also means respect for private capital and, ultimately, protection of private capital, which is one of the most important European values. Otherwise, rarely when we talk about it, but property rights are uncut and sacred rights in European, let's say, community of people and in European history of ideas. Therefore, I think that, although you have been critical enough like this and I understand in the parts that made you critical, you have contributed greatly to the European idea, I consider you a pro-European MP and continue as soon as the pandemic passes to organise these economic meetings with the EU and to help investment in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2321	Thank you. The word has Dragan D. Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2322	I thank the minister. Let me tell you, I am not an anti-European, I am for EU entry, but for EU entry without blackmail every six months with new blackmails. We did not thank them for the EU, to say, we do not want to enter. My discussion was - how long are you going to do this to Serbia? What did Serbia deserve? And say - what did Serbia disrespect from what you asked of Serbia in Brussels and what is in Resolution 1244? They don't admit the resolution, and now we don't mention it, it doesn't matter anymore, but what about the Brussels Agreement, and that's mine to ask. In 2008, I built a pro-European government with Dacic. You weren't pro-European at the time, it doesn't matter, but we made a pro-European government. Since then, investors have come to Serbia and I have not once, in any sentence I have not said that our country or government or you personally are doing badly. My criticism is against those who promised us something, and they lied to us, blackmailed us, did this more, we did, and they cheated on Serbia. One of us has to talk about it. You may not have to be ministers, but I will speak as someone who is a representative of the people, what I think about it. So, I said what I think of McCron, what I think of France, that the global policy of France does not change according to Serbia. Commissioners, there's no good or bad, all of them here -- where you're moving, bro, we haven't been, you're the best, you're the best burger, good sour cabbage, etc. What's his report? Why didn't one of the former commissioners comment on the European Commission's report now? It's not because he can't. He is an official in the institution called the EU. You may know it better, because that's what you do, but I'm supporting you in the next period of time. Not to tell you that all the confessions I got from the Najevopian, and that confession was offered to me in 2007. I'm not civil enough for Europe yet, you understand? But as time went by, it's all in Europe and around Europe, but I'm not against working with America and China, and Russia, not losing old friends without making new ones, and I'm not going to tell my friends, but my associates are blackmailing today -- come on, you're going to have dinner with me today, but don't take the Light, because I hate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2323	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2324	Thank you. I'll be brief, since you mentioned whether we were Europeans or not. It's often said about this government in 2008, pro-European, but what's forgotten, and I'm not forgetting, because I'm still part of one of perhaps the most politically old work not only of the SNS, but you've alluded to my membership in the former SRS, and then I'll remind you for the sake of the public. The Serbian Progressive Party, among other things, has formed a polarised relationship within the former SRS to accept the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in this parliament. I remember that well. Therefore, those who created SNS were for the adoption of the SAA, therefore, of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that is the pro-European legacy of SNS and those who later participated in everything that has been done since 2012, and especially since 2014, by opening negotiations. More than 10 or 12 years of pro-European rhetoric has been done, which has not begun any serious reform essentially. That's what you should say and know. So it's not any pro-European justification and legitimacy, it's a fact, and I'm fighting false news and I don't like false news, and especially not to come out of the National Assembly. And in doing so, I didn't accuse you of saying anything false, that we understand each other, not you, but a story that we always have to listen to in the media. As far as blackmail is concerned, believe me, there are politically very difficult things. I wouldn't call it blackmail. There are some criteria that the country must meet. We entered this process voluntarily. Are the deadlines moving, does enlargement policy have its problems? We fully agree, this is not exactly the subject of what it was 10 years ago and so much worse for those who advocated European integration in 2005, 2007 and 2008 when conditions were incomparably easier than today, and when many countries, which are concerned about whether they would meet the EU criteria at all today, and our pro-European authorities did nothing and did not use a favourable moment. Of these last six, seven years we've done more than possible. Somewhere we were late, I agree, I'm always open to criticism, but if we'd done enough, we'd done it. One more thing, I don't want to continue, but being pro-European is sound and beautiful, and that's what a lot of political platforms have been building on for many years in this country, but it's a matter of results. It's not enough just for pro-European rhetoric to swear and measure what's worth, so as we measure how many chapters we've opened or how many, I don't know, we've closed down. That's not the point. It's a matter of estimating what reform is. The thing is, we value what we do, not measure what we've done, and we don't appreciate those values that we have to deal with. I just wanted to get this straight. Nothing concrete has been directed at you, but when you mention 2008, let's remind ourselves, however, that a party structure was formed in Serbia at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2325	Thank you. The word is Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2326	Ma'am, you obviously didn't understand me. I have not slowed the results since 2012 and you must admit that I am part of these results without function, although President Vukic offered me to be minister. I said no, twice. He offered me twice, Mr. Tadic, and I said no. I don't know why you're spreading the subject so much and why you're arguing with me. If it's my turn, I'll take it. If you have that habit, but I'm not into fighting. I'm sorry if you found yourself here. No one criticized you for not opening 35 chapters, no one. I was just criticizing those who promised us things, and they didn't honor anything. I apologize if you've found yourself, but I haven't thought about you personally, and I'm not interested in a fight. You're a lady. I know better who the people in the SNS are than you are, and I've met them before, and if I didn't believe them, I wouldn't support them. Do you understand? And on the Report, don't tell me because I haven't said anything in any sentence that I've reduced the result and success of what this country is doing, and I wish you a lot of happiness in the next period of time and fight. You're a lady and yell at them, and don't yell at me. There on them to yell at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2327	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2328	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, I look forward to hearing different tones in our parliament, the Serbian Parliament. That is why parliaments are serving to hear political opinions from different political parties. But, you know, one more thing, we're talking here, we're talking in a civilized way, and it gives me hope that that code we discussed a few days ago gives us results. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, I welcome the decision to put the European Commission's 2020 report in debate with the tide. You know, we send very significant messages that way. First, the message is that indeed the Serbian state parliament has a strategic goal for the state of Serbia to be in EU membership, that Serbia behaves responsibly in the accession process and is truly committed to EU integration. And why are we doing this? Well, we are doing it because 64.1% of Serbian citizens are in favour of Serbia's EU membership. For the party I belong to, which is SDPS, it is also a strategic goal for Serbia to be an EU member. That's what we've been fighting in this House so far, we'll do it before. You know, there was talk here about whether this report is positive, not positive, whether we have enough speed in EU accession. I have to tell you that the really open 18 chapters, two closed chapters, are the result. We're not happy about the fact that the accession is going quite slowly. Sometimes I have the impression that the EU will not, but not only Serbia, but the entire Western Balkans. The European Union, as the prime minister said, needs the Western Balkans and needs Serbia, as we in Serbia and the Western Balkans need the EU. But we are aware of the fact that everything is happening in the EU and I hope that some members will still be more receptive to the Western Balkan countries. This is very important to us because we are in that position and we are in a position to adapt to EU standards. We need Serbia, the state of Serbia, EU standards, which is why we are changing, so we are reforming. No one can say that the state of Serbia is lagging behind. The country of Serbia differs considerably in 2012 and 2020. Let me just point out what we've done in this period. Have we not led to a change in the political system that is seen in public administrations, by passing laws, etc? Didn't we radically change the economic system? Didn't we change the infrastructure? We have new highways, we have new railways that are about to start working and something else, the standard of Serbian citizens is improved. The salary is no longer what it used to be, and we are approaching the EU in that part. It's true, it's not enough. There's still a lot to do. Just to point out that we had an unemployment rate of 26%, and now it's below 10%. But, you know, I don't want to be easily promised the speed of entry into the EU. You don't even have to burden yourself with that fact. We need to change, reform, introduce these new standards. That's good for Serbia. You know, the report says we have to pay attention to the rule of law. Of course, that's necessary, that's important. Furthermore, it is very important that institutions do their job independently and in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Of course, the EU and this report have fully scanned Serbia's political and economic life. The evaluations and attitudes that were given in this report, you know, they were given in a diplomatic dictionary. There are critical volumes, it's good that they exist. We need to take a good look at these critical volumes, think about them and realize that it's just one angle of view. We have another angle of view, and I therefore believe that the conclusions of the Committee on European Integration have been measured, have been said in one diplomatic dictionary and the SDPS parliamentary group will vote for these conclusions. In an analysis of certain parts of the report, I will start first from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know, I'm always starting with the fact that you need to get out of your yard, start by yourself. Has the National Assembly made adequate progress during this period? I have to say it is. That's what I'm stating the following facts. The adoption of the law by emergency procedure has been reduced, work is better planned, we no longer have 60-70 points of the agenda, but dots are grouped according to their importance and according to whether there are similarities. There is a significant arrangement between the heads of parliament. We have, we have already had a public hearing where they were representatives of both the professional and scientific public, then the NGO sector. We formed informal groups of Women's Parliamentary Network, then the Green Parliamentary Network. I also announce that we will soon form a "Fox Group for the Control of Sustainable Development and Implementation of the 2030 Agenda". That's where we're going to include the NGO sector. I believe that the greatest result we have achieved is precisely the adoption of the Code of Conduct of MPs, because, as you can see, we see at this session a greater tolerance for respecting different opinions. I also expect further respect for personality and, of course, less flammable speeches. I expect in the next period and that interparty dialogue will begin, where it is right here in the National Assembly and be assured that we will. The greatest results, which the EU also acknowledges in this report, have been achieved in the economy. It's a fact that no one can dispute. These are the results achieved in the financial consolidation, the reduction of external debt. I stress, that foreign debt reduction was up to Kovid-19 and if we had just moved on, we would have made it to that legal condition 45% of GDP very quickly. However, the Kovida-19 pandemic not only to Serbia, but also to all other countries has forced it to behave differently. We had GDP growth which, as it began, would be in the coming period, the truth in 2020 we expect a decline, but it will be the smallest drop we will have. We respect fiscal rules, and most importantly, we have stable and very low inflation. In addition to the fact that we have a pandemic, very difficult, we continue to invest in capital investments. We haven't put any capital investment into another plan. On the contrary, let's move on, because we're looking away. I have to live after this pandemic, and that's what I want to especially underline. Serbia is just taking care of the Western Balkans initiator and Mini Schengen. We are aware of the fact that in these areas we must cooperate, talk, trade, live together. We will always be in this space, there will be others in these areas, and for all of us it will be better to cooperate, to have open borders, to develop, because then we will all live better. Of course, there's a lot of grades here. There's a lot that's been said here in the debate. I won't mention it. I also think of the public administration, the judiciary, the fight against organised crime, corruption, the rights of citizens. You know, there are estimates that our chairman of the European Integration Committee has already said, these are more or less diplomatic assessments, some are not pleasant. You know, you've made limited progress, made good progress, very limited, certain progress or good or no progress. Sometimes it is not diplomatic, but it is said and I think that we need to think about all these assessments, give appropriate answers, and the answers can be that amending the law, changing the rules of conduct, respecting what we need to change in order to be in this accession process as close as possible to the EU. And we don't fool around here much. The decision when we will become an EU member is a political decision. That's quite clear to us, even in the first paragraph of this report. Of course, it is about the rule of law and the issue of resolving and achieving this comprehensive legal-binding agreement with Kosovo. You know, all these assessments were, at least as far as the EU is concerned, diplomatically, but as far as Kosovo is concerned, I have to read it, which is: "Serbia needs to make further significant efforts and contribute to achieving a comprehensive legal-binding agreement with Kosovo. Such an agreement is urgent and crucial. “ You know, there is less diplomacy here. It's clear here what needs to be done. And regardless of this formulation, I accept that assessment, which is that we need to talk, that Serbia is ready to talk, but it always takes two people to talk, and it takes a climate to come to that solution that we are really interested in right now. Of course, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I want to direct Serbia's citizens, but also the EU's following messages: Serbia is strategically interested in EU membership, it is able to take on the obligations arising from membership. You know, now the consistency of foreign and security policy is 60%, not a small percentage. At this stage of accession our message is – yes, we will continue to have strategic partnerships with the United States, with Russia and China. When we are a member of the EU, be assured that we will follow all the attitudes that the EU is prescribing to us. This strategic partnership at this stage, we will not give up. One more thing, I expect very much assistance from the EU. I know that donations, that trade co-operation with EU member states, that foreign direct investments are the largest and come from the EU, but I expect greater assistance. Where am I expecting her? This is at the realization of the 2030 Agenda or the Sustainable Development Goals. Serbia is in one situation to change, but significant funds are needed and I expect help. Are those nine billion mentioned here for the entire Western Balkans? But we are particularly concerned about environmental protection, about preventing climate change. We have a pandemic called Covid 19. That's where we get good results, and even the report says that we've responded adequately. It costs Serbia, a state of Serbia that is not a rich country. For the help we have received, we are grateful and will continue to fight especially at this stage where we are now, and this is a question of vaccination of all those groups that are sensitive and make sure that we expect EU assistance. Environmental protection is also part of a package. If we fix our environment, for climate change we also improve our condition, then we'll have fewer pandemics like this, then we'll have a healthier life and a better life. That is exactly what we want, because the EU is exactly the framework that needs to create it. Finally, I also stress the Serbian Parliament, which is precisely what the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown here that it is truly committed to Serbia's integration into the EU and for its full membership. The SDPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of all the conclusions of the Committee on European Integration and in each next move always stand behind those views, those conclusions that will reform Serbia, change, make it better for the lives of all citizens and be a full member of the EU. I hope that the EU will be able to overcome its internal problems in the coming period and will be ready to join new members. It is Serbia that first knocks on the EU door and wants to be an EU member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2329	Thank you. Minister Jadranka Joksimovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2330	Thank you. Your Honor, there's only a few information on the topics you've started. As regards the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda, it has become part of the EU's political framework and our cross-sectoral sustainable development policy and implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals is implemented inter alia through the European integration process. We had a temporary inter-resor working group. However, I expect this to rise, as far as the Serbian government is concerned, to an even higher level and I will remind you that the foundation of our public finances, the 2025 "Serbia" programme, which effectively connects and networkes with the objectives of sustainable development, and I will remind you that last year the President of the Republic of Vukic participated in the UN General Assembly dedicated to a voluntary national report on the objectives of sustainable development, and Serbia was then one of the 47 countries in total in the world that submitted a voluntary national report on the implementation of the SDGs. Let me just tell the citizens what the theme of the Sustainable Development Goals is. Grouped in 17 objectives are, in fact, all of that from water availability to poverty reduction, to energy security, to the green agenda, to competitiveness, to socially fair society, to gender equality. So these are all topics that we talk about every day and through the reform process of European integration we work every day and Serbia has shown true leadership in the region, and I can say that it is interested in this topic even more than some EU members. I also call on parliament to be involved in this. I think it's very important. It's a theme for everyone. This is the theme that no citizen in any part of Serbia is being bypassed, and this is our goal through the "Serbia 2025" Plan, and I think that both Prime Minister Brnabic and President Vukic are actively working on it, and we as the Ministry of European Integration, that through a European integration policy, we are also going to achieve the goals of sustainable development, and I think that this will be raised to the highest possible level in institutional terms, and I think that we absolutely deserve it. On the other hand, one of the topics you mentioned, of course, I don't want to talk too much about it, and so is my colleague Selakovic with regard to the common foreign and security policy. You said, let me get this straight. You said that when we become a member, we will follow EU policy. Just so you understand. The point is when you become a member to participate in the decision-making process. This is why membership is important. It is not that we will follow what someone else is saying but we will participate with our arguments and our reasons, of course, to adhere to what most people are, because that is how the EU works, because otherwise it would not be possible. A common foreign and security policy is an issue that even in the EU today is not easy to reach agreement. Even in its own time, the idea of replacing a consensus with a two-thirds majority, the management of a common foreign and security policy, is still in circulation, precisely because it is not possible to agree fully and to end all the geostrategic, geopolitical turmoil that is happening in the world and that is changing nature and some bilateral relations, but also as regards multilateral platforms. In any case, just to point out this year, Serbia has significantly improved, let's say, deepened its participation in common foreign and security policy. It is very often said only about what you mentioned about the strategic partnership with China, with the Russian Federation, etc., but one other thing is forgotten. The Brussels Agreement was signed in good time and by the High Representative for EU foreign and security policy, which was Catherine Ashton, and then it was Mogerini, now we have Borelja, simply so our citizens understand. The Brussels Agreement is also part of the EU's common foreign and security policy. Serbia has also put and installed its important national issue in part of an attempt to resolve open issues peacefully through the prism of a common foreign and security policy. That is why we are so loud when we ask the EU to insist on implementing what is not only a signator of Belgrade's and Pristina's president, but also a high representative for the EU's foreign and security policy. So not only as a mediator, but as a signer. In this context, and you should have this as an argument regarding the common foreign and security policy and, of course, Serbia's participation in all military missions, I think you are now still active four military missions and the first country in the region to start preparing for participation in EU civilian missions and the first country to bring its strategic documents of national defence and security into line with the EU's global strategy. Sometimes you don't hear it enough and you just hear criticisms about our relationships with some other global forces, but this is very important to be mentioned. I'm sorry, I've seen a few MPs react to my voice volume. I'm talking under a mask, and I didn't know that voice energy could upset so much, because I didn't insult anyone, and now the tone is a little stronger. Well, I guess the energy isn't the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2331	Of course not. Minister Gordana Comic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2332	Thank you. Further information to MP Mijatovic. It concerns one of the three dialogues that will be organised continuously for the next year under the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue and in part and the response to continuous objections in the European Commission's reports that we are a society without dialogue. Where there is to be a dialogue there is a monologue, where there should be exchanges on the subject there are gossips about the topic or gossip of people. So, sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda will be the subject of a social dialogue led by the ministry. I would be very pleased to see it as a continuous participation of the National Assembly in this dialogue, along with people from the executive government, civil society, professions, citizens in the broadest sense, so all those who are interested in one of the topics. I had the pleasure of working with you MPs to focus on the group in the previous National Assembly meeting and we want to have a two-week, monthly discussion with Serbia about what it wants to look like in 2030. How much does that cost? Who's gonna pay for that? What should we change to agree on how we want to live in 2030? You will be welcome both you and anyone interested in such a dialogue where, whether we are tolerated or not, but with common knowledge, there is a solution to the problem and a favourable picture of Serbia for all of us in ten years from today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2333	Thank you. National MP Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2334	Thank you. I'm happy with the answers I got. First of all, I will stick to Minister Gordana Komic's word on the goals of sustainable development. We worked together in the previous term, even representing the state of Serbia in different countries. It is precisely the results that we have achieved as the National Assembly, you are now a minister, you now have much more instruments for concrete action and I look forward to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised the meaning of the objectives of sustainable development, and what the Agenda 20-30 means. Likewise, Minister Joksimovic, the targets set by 2025 and the 20-30 Agenda are in correlation. There's no opposite. It is better that we get to certain goals as soon as possible, that Serbia looks different to us. I would also like to point out that I really expect that this higher level of implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals will be very quickly visible and be assured that the National Assembly will indeed monitor the realisation of these objectives and that I will always say in my discussions what has been done, what has not been done. I want co-operation, because I think there's a lot more to be achieved through cooperation than there is criticism, but we're going to be working. In the previous period when we were presenting the results, and I was present myself, because I brought those results to the UN together with the minister who was following the goals of sustainable development, that is Mrs Slavica Dejanovic, we received praise from many UN countries. We'll keep doing better, better and better. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2335	Thank you, Mr. Miatovic. Before we move on to the next authorised representative, I'd like to inform you of the extension of today's work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a national emissary, Rosalia Ekres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2336	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office, respected Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is the EU's strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia. There is absolute support for European integration in the National Assembly. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians as a pro-European, more specifically the Euro-Atlantic party is seeking to speed up Serbia's EU accession process, consolidate democratic institutions and strengthen the rule of law. We believe that there is a technique of the willingness and political maturity of society for that. As is known, Serbia began membership negotiations in early 2014, and the first negotiating chapters opened in December 2015. Only 18 negotiating chapters have been opened so far, two of which are temporarily closed. We believe it is necessary to speed up this process, because Serbia is fully technical, administrative and professionally ready for the negotiation process and to implement the obligations that result from this process. We are aware that the EU faces the biggest challenges of its establishment, such as the crisis caused by the pandemic, the migrant and economic crisis, the exit of the United Kingdom from the Union after 47 years of membership, as well as climate change. However, we believe that these challenges do not exclude the continuation of the enlargement policy, but rather point to the need for greater unity of integration. In this sense, the Western Balkans should be seen as an integral part of Europe as part of the solution. Why is Serbia where it is in this process? The reason is, above all, that the Member States are not satisfied with how reforms are progressing and that Serbia stands when it comes to the rule of law, the freedom of the media, the state of democracy. We in the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians think it is important to look at the key aspects of Serbia's further progress in light of new developments and challenges in Europe and beyond, but also the development prospects ahead. We must bear in mind that stability and co-operation are confirmed through one of the EU's most successful policies, the enlargement policy. Serbia is committed to reform processes, actively contributes to initiatives and participates in EU policy in line with its commitments in the European integration process. The further enlargement process is of great importance, both for countries that seek to join and for the EU. The dynamics of Eurointegration are also of paramount importance for preserving the reform momentum among candidate countries and as a significant incentive to achieve membership criteria, particularly in the interest of regional citizens. Negotiations are not an automatic process, but the result of reforms that have been implemented will depend on our progress on the way to the EU. Key areas of reform remain the rule of law, fundamental freedom, strengthening democratic institutions, public administration reform, as well as economic development and improving competitiveness. The accession process has been defined by a number of commitments and decisions that must be made, requiring strong political will, implementing reforms and resolving disputes with neighbours. Also, the EU must be a credible partner who will allow countries in the region to meet their commitments more quickly and efficiently through different engagement and presence mechanisms in the region, including financial support. concrete results must be achieved in strengthening the rule of law and judicial reform, fighting corruption, building a functional economy that can withstand EU competition, and achieving a legally binding agreement with Pristina. Starting from the crucial role of Parliament in representing citizens, as well as a key task in the European integration processes on us, parliamentarians, it is up to us to work on reform processes and to apply European standards in the future to strengthen the foundations of democracy and peace in the region. We in the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians believe that the EU's future should be discussed and it is important that the Western Balkan countries that successfully negotiate have a clear perspective of membership. The ownership of reforms is on the candidate country itself, as well as in the interest of its citizens, and the quality of the negotiations is far more important than the number of open chapters, which does not necessarily have to be a measure of success. Enlargement policy must retain the position of a key European policy as an investment in peace, democracy, prosperity, security and stability of the European continent. With a population of about 500 million EU citizens today make up the largest community of successful democracies in the world, although in this community there are different groups of countries each having its own characteristics, historical belongings and political processes, their unity and solidarity is the cornerstone of the security of their citizens. EU enlargements so far show that the enlargement process is two-way. The new Member States contribute to the political stability and economic progress of the Union, as EU membership contributes to the economic improvement and political stability of their citizens and states. That is why we are convinced that only with Serbia and with the entire Western Balkans as its integral part of the EU can be unique and complete. The very important fact that the SVM parliamentary group certainly supports is that full EU membership remains one of the key foreign policy priorities of the new government and that Serbia continues to work towards implementing comprehensive reforms, especially in the area of the rule of law. It is clear that Serbia should focus in the next period on the most important and urgent reforms, in particular on meeting the transitional criteria for Chapters 23 and 24, including the construction of an independent and effective judiciary, constitutional reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime. For the EU, Serbia's Euro integration process, the rule of law is as important as solving the KIM problem. The Action Plan for Chapter 23 scheduled for the Constitution to change by the end of 2017, and the proposal has now entered the assembly procedure. Clear, true and comprehensive communication with citizens is also needed on the extent to which the EU has provided assistance to Serbia. We from the SVM will certainly continue to advocate speeding up Serbia's EU accession process, consolidation of democratic institutions and strengthening the rule of law, more effective coordination with the European legal system, protection of fundamental rights and freedoms and particularly economic reform. We expect that the new methodology will restore the credibility of the enlargement policy, that much fairer results will be achieved so far through the strengthening of the dynamics of the opening of the negotiating chapters, speed up the accession process and make it predictable, and an extremely significant segment is also financial support to bring the reforms to an end successfully. Encouraged by the results of the 2016 action plan for achieving the rights of national minorities, we will push for the adoption and implementation of a new minority action plan for the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2337	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2338	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers, Mr Selakovic, Mrs Joksimovic, for the first time since the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress on the path of European integration was published, the report reads in plenary. The opinion of the SPS parliamentary group as someone who was also an initiator to talk about it in the plural, and we will also say the reason why we felt it was important right now. We think it's a good practice and that it should be done in the next period of time. I think that your presence, the presence of the prime minister, the presence of ministers who are in some way directly and linked to the report itself, i.e. the responsibility and obligations you have within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are related to the European Commission's report, are primarily one, I would say, responsible and serious way in which we see this strategic interest as the main foreign policy objective, which is that Serbia becomes a full member of the EU. I think it is important that we finally hear the voice of the people about this important and important issue for us, and the voice of the people is parliament. Parliament is the voice of the people, legitimately elected representatives of the citizens. You know, we are somehow constantly in a position to listen to representatives of the European Parliament, to listen to representatives of Members from the region, but we cannot hear the voice of the people here in the Republic Parliament. On the other hand, the president of Serbia when he looked at the European Commission's report was very specific and he said – I accept responsibility, I accept responsibility, however many of these, I will now paraphrasise, no matter how accurate some estimates are, and some, little by little, or flat and political, but I accept all the responsibility. The election is here in 2022, so let the citizens determine what that responsibility is. That responsibility should be accepted by all of us together, both the Government and the President of the National Assembly and the entire National Assembly. In this way, I would say, through this kind of debate, we would first and foremost like to give clear and unequivocal support to both the president of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in a clear and unequivocal policy, I repeat, towards the realization of what is a strategic interest, which is the main political objective, the foreign policy objective, which is Serbia's full membership in the EU. We have, I'd say, a historic chance. We have political stability, we have huge trust and support for citizens, which is the result of the last parliamentary elections, as is evident here in parliament. We deal successfully with temptations and risks. The system works when it's the hardest, and not only does the system work, but it does very well. Excuse me, I'm speaking now, colleague, if it's no problem, I'd like to be heard by both the president and the ministers. I don't mean anything by it, of course. So, I will repeat, I think we have a historic chance, because we have political stability, we have huge trust and support for citizens who have resulted in the last parliamentary elections and are visible here by the number of MPs, so we are successfully dealing with temptations and risks. State leadership and the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have made it clear that the system works when it is most difficult, not only to function, but to achieve good results and good indicators. You know, we should always ask ourselves if we can do better, because none of us are the best and we should never go away from it. So we always have to ask ourselves if it can be better. That's why we said, when you were talking about exposure, that we support always raising the scale, because that's good for Serbia's future and that's good for the future of every citizen in Serbia. If we don't succeed in all this, it's our own fault, so we haven't all worked together enough. So, in this House, I must admit, I feel, as much as there is one attempt in the public to degrade, to minimise, to present Parliament in the most negative way and the composition of parliament of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I see a new energy in this Parliament. I see new faces in this House, new energy, dynamics, educated people, far more colleagues. I admit, colleagues are sometimes far braver, far more visper, far wiser than all of us. The president won't mind me, last time I told the members of the nicer sex, but here, I'll tell my colleague. I'm glad we're one of five parliaments, I'm not talking about quotas, we ignore quotas, because I don't want colleagues to be measured by quotas, my colleagues are here because they're professional, capable and have some results behind them. I think this Parliament has the strength, has the readiness, has the abilities and whether these extraordinary parliamentary elections were in 2022 or not, we shouldn't think about it. We should only think in one direction – let us all present this year to our country together. Let us all present together this year to Serbia and be a support to both the President of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the realization of what is crucial, which is six key points on which your exposés are based, in fact pillars of the exhibition that you went out with the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. However, the EU needs to know that we are doing things on the path of European integration in order to implement European standards in our society, in order to be governed by the rule of law, but that we are not only doing it for the EU, that we are doing it for ourselves, precisely because of what I said, that we are being regulated and the rule of law. We never negotiate out of fear, but we're also never afraid to negotiate. They say we need to establish a constant and uninterrupted communication on the EU's benefits and importance, because citizens' confidence in the EU is falling, today it is below 50%. This is the part contained in the European Commission's report. That would mean that if I were here for 20 minutes in parliament, as simply translated, saying that I was for European integration and that we fully support it as a parliamentary club of European integration, would you change the trust of the citizens of Serbia? Of course not. So my personal opinion is that citizens' support is very important, because it makes a significant contribution to the successful implementation of our commitments as a country and government on this European path. EU support, in my opinion, depends not only on what the political institutions of Serbia do, what we do in Serbia, but also on what the Brussels administration does when it comes to the vital interests of the state. I'd like to make two specific examples here. In this year, no chapter was opened, and the government made it very clear that there was a basis for such a thing. On the other hand, the most important issue between Kosovo and Metohija, however, is very soft or there is no response from Brussels to the application of violence in Kosovo and Metohija to members of the Serb people or to the huge obstruction of the negotiating process, the application of introduced taxis. So we of the Brussels Agreement did not sign that Serbia would be underestimated and that Serbia would be humiliated. When we were criticised for the Brussels Agreement, we made it very clear – if you are not at a negotiating table to discuss Serbia's national and state interests, you cannot absolutely influence anything. As long as you're at that table you can say something. That is why it is important to be present, and that is why it is important to hear our word. It is therefore important that everyone realized that Serbia today is part of the solution, that without Serbia, there is no compromise and fair solution. The first thing is that Serbia respected everything defined by the Brussels Agreement, and the other side did not. When they talk about the rule of law, well, is that the rule of law? I don't think so. That Pristina does not implement what was agreed during the Brussels Agreement, I specifically think of the Community of Serb municipalities as a key thing, and that it constantly minimises it, that it keeps leaving aside and that today we are again in a situation that we have no one to negotiate with in Pristina, and Serbia continues to show readiness to discuss the most difficult issues, because of generations above all that come. So trust takes two. Trust depends on both sides, not only on one side, not only on Serbia and our political institutions, but on two sides. The progress report, which we are discussing today, in my opinion, is a good and useful instrument in overcoming the commitments Serbia has on the path of European integration. However, this report is not as useful as it could be, since on some issues it is unilateral and some estimates, I would say, are flat-rate and without arguments. I think we have a duty to say today here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Just a few questions. First of all, I think about the fight against the crown and what the report emphasizes in a negative context when it comes to what Serbia has done and what state leadership, along with health care, has done in the past period of time. I would like to say that Serbia has responded slowly and adequately and has prevented the worst possible scenario, that the system, as I said, has been working, achieved results and that the situation is not difficult because of Alexander Vukic, because of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the situation is difficult throughout the world. The whole world faces this health challenge and this is a fight for Serbia's future and for the future of every Serbian citizen. They criticised us for introducing rigid measures, and then a number of EU countries just applied those measures. Now, what are they criticizing us in the European Commission report? They say the measures are the cause of the protest. Not measures are the cause of the protest, the cause of the protest is a political connotation and an attempt to profit politically. Next thing you know, there's no lying or cheating when it comes to numbers and facts. In the economy, you can't cheat. Serbia has allocated 700 billion dinars or 6 billion euros or 12.7% of GDP since March to help the state, to help citizens and to help the economy during the pandemic period. The question arises whether a country in Europe, a country in the world, has accepted this much of a burden of crisis? The growth rate of our economy is the highest in Europe. What are the essential issues today, we've already talked about – were there layoffs, were there factory closures, did foreign investors give up? There were no layoffs, there were no factory closures, and as for foreign investors in the first nine months of 1.9 billion euros, the total amount that arrived in the Balkans, 60% of which came to Serbia. And it is no accident that the Financial Times has been classing Serbia back several years as a leader in attracting foreign direct investment. It's that living policy. And that living policy, the result of that living policy that we were talking about, is exactly the hospital in Batajnica, is also the hospital in Kruševec. Our goal is the "Serbia 2025" plan -- the average salary in Serbia of 900 euros, the average pension of 430 euros. Third thing: regional co-operation. They say Serbia has interfered with the elections in Montenegro. How did Serbia interfere with Montenegro's internal affairs? Well, did the president of Serbia call for anyone to vote in Montenegro's elections or did Rama and others do so? But they don't mention Rama, do they? We don't care about the government in Montenegro. We are interested in the status and position of our citizens, which is 29%, and I believe there are more, because I want to believe that there will be a new census, there are more than 29% of them and we are interested in the status of SPC property. There is no international convention that forbids us to protect our property. You know what direct mixing is? That is when Montenegro declares and accepts Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. Now, that's direct interference with Serbia's internal issue. And a lot more scares in Montenegro with Serbian hegemonism. What concerns me when it comes to Montenegro is – why does our ambassador not return? Why is he still "persona non grata"? Why does Mr. Krinakapic, as the newly elected Prime Minister, have one opinion on the 1918 Assembly during the election campaign, and another opinion after the election campaign when he was elected and why is he thinking today whether he will visit Pristina first or visit Belgrade? Next thing you know, regional co-operation. We are a symbol of new values today in the region. Well, it's a very clear view both of the President and of the Government -- we want peace, good neighbourly relations and co-operation. If there are questions, they are resolved through dialogue and by no means different. Mini Shengen is a healing and best way for the whole region. A concrete benefit from it will be felt by citizens. As far as KIM is concerned, I'll put it in one sentence, the colleagues will talk about it in the follow-up today's debate. Our position that it will pass either Kosovo or the EU in Serbia is impossible. That won't work. A compromise and fair solution is needed through dialogue. I suppose that's clear to everyone after the talks the president of Serbia had with the president of the United States in Washington? I guess it's clear to everyone that if you put pressure on Serbia, you're wasting your time. You won't make us recognize KIM's unilaterally declared independence. As for Parliament, I am talking about the European Commission report, we have implemented the largest part of what was contained in the European Commission report, doubled the time of the budget debate, no more by emergency procedure, but by regular procedure, we have adopted the Ethical Code, public hearings, something that is extraordinary progress and what is good practice and what is a good instrument. So, there will be a continuation of inter-party dialogue immediately after the New Year's holidays, and they have accused the National Assembly president of being against inter-party dialogue. It is not against inter-party dialogue, only this Assembly has its own agenda of priorities, and it will not be determined by the quasi political elite. You know what, the press recently asked me – what do you expect from inter-party dialogue? I said absolutely nothing, except one thing, to show willingness and will to listen to suggestions and suggestions. And in what format, how are we going to talk, we're just going to see. Because we've got somewhere on the register today, so correct me if I'm wrong, 60 extraparliamentary parties. Does this mean that we will have ideal electoral conditions if we meet all 60 extraparliamentary parties? As far as European parliamentarians are concerned, we only expect one thing from them - not to share MPs in the first and second order, not to degrade us and to talk to everyone in the institutions of the system, not in the hotel lobbys. Because it is a general impression that individual European parliamentarians were aimed only at encouraging individual opposition options to go to parliamentary elections. Don't tell us about this Tanja Fajon, which is very discriminatory when we talk about next negotiations, which criticised the 50% turnout in Serbia, and selected as a 26% European parliamentarian, is not a 26% basic, but a 26% turnout. Did they remember the functional campaign today? Why didn't they remember the 2008 functional campaign? Worried about democracy and freedom of the media. Don't worry. Democracy takes place in Serbia in the elections. Why the freedom of the media was not addressed in 2011, when a report by Verica Barac was drawn up expressing serious concern for the media in Serbia. I asked Mrs. Tanya Fajon that question. She says she was not a rapporteur at the time, and I told her – you were a representative of the European Parliament and why you did not ask as a representative of the European Parliament as a question, and you are reportedly concerned today. So, I think that we are entering another phase of unremembered pressure, and that is why we felt that today we should discuss this report, because strong and stable Serbia, Serbia that has the determination and determination to protect national and state interests, Serbia that thinks with its own head, which has its own opinion, Serbia that leads its own foreign policy in the best interests of its citizens, is definitely not responding to anyone. Anything to point out, we're being warned. We listen to European parliamentarians who have the right, just because they have the prefix – reporters, say the good news is that new chapters have not been opened in Serbia. From Pristina, a constant wartime wartime husca rhetoric that should be...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2339	George, since I'm back in the O.R., it's been a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2340	You're back, but I've got 40 seconds left, I've waited, because I've waited for my colleague to...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2341	So no 40 seconds, 21.28, but come on...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2342	I'm done here, Mr. President. I'm definitely a minority in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2343	No, it's you who abuses me for being the president of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2344	I'm kidding. So, I think it's a general hickey on Serbia and it's very interesting that three Croatian media at the same time, but at the same time they're coming out with the same thesis that Republika Srpska's spoil is Serbia, that Albanian lobbyists, Serbs who haven't changed their rhetoric for 20 years, are trying to break Serbia's spine through Congress, two points -- Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija. For all of this, we felt that during this very period we needed to discuss these important issues in order to be your support. One general conclusion is that Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic can implement everything, and they can't. That's funny, and it's always been an explanation. Otherwise, we fully support the Committee's conclusions and proposals, as the SPS Parliament Club, of course supports the conclusions of the proposal for a Committee on European Integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2345	Thank you. Since according to our plan, it's 14 hours, according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 15 minutes. As I said yesterday, we will hold the debate today and continue this debate in one small volume tomorrow after asking parliamentary questions, with the aim of holding the vote in the first half, meaning until the break at 14 o'clock, now depends on the length of the debate, 12 o'clock, 13 o'clock, and then we end the regular session. Thank you. Branko warned me that I said 3:15 p.m. that it was a sequel, but I think I said 15.05 p.m. So in 15.05, we move on. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. You have received the resignation of MP Maja Macužic Puzic as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative Budget and the mandate-immunity issues of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that a case under Article 88(2) has taken place. The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time at which it was elected, for MP Maja Macužić Puzic to resign. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. We are now moving forward with the list of presidents, or authorised representatives. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2347	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, dear fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, Serbia's EU membership is our country's first strategic and foreign policy priority. The values around which existing EU member states have gathered recognises Serbia as values it wants to cultivate further, and the accession process as an opportunity for reforms and strengthening European standards. Today, the European Union is our biggest donor and traditionally key trading partner in Serbia, with about two-thirds of the external trade exchange being conducted with EU countries. Also, two-thirds of all foreign investment comes from the EU. Serbia is also the biggest beneficiary of the European Investment Bank loan with 4.6 billion euros in appropriations over the past 15 years and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is an important investor in Serbia. Since 2009, it has invested 3.5 billion euros mainly in the infrastructure and development of financial institutions. There is no doubt that Serbia is sincerely committed to further and deeper reforms in our society, which really approach in one responsible and serious way. In co-operation with the EU institutions and its members, it seeks to adopt and apply the principles of best practice. The reforms we are doing today in the National Assembly and all these days, the reforms that our government is making for the sole benefit and benefit of our citizens. After the opening of the first chapters of December 2015, it is about Chapter 32, to remind you, Financial Control and Chapter 35 "Other issues", Serbia has so far opened 18 of the 35 negotiating chapters, with two negotiating chapters temporarily closed, and it is about Chapter 25 concerning science and research, as well as Chapter 26 concerning education and culture. The narrative of this year's report was made in line with a new methodology that implies speeding up reforms, which the candidate countries should implement as soon as possible to open clusters. The clusters will now be organized by groups. Negotiations will be opened in all cluster chapters at once, once the criteria for opening chapters have been met. Where no specific opening criteria are met, where reforms deliver results on meeting existing criteria, the candidate country will be left with a period of one year to realise the closing criteria depending on progress made in the reform process. As I said, the new methodology implies the existence of six clusters, except for Chapter 34 relating to institutions and Chapter 35. Based on the current state of the accession process, Serbia is ready to open new negotiating chapters. In most clusters, it has already opened a significant number of negotiating chapters, except in Cluster 4 relating to the green agenda and infrastructure integration, where we have submitted negotiating positions for three of the four chapters. The dynamics of the current cross-section regarding clusters are such that Cluster 1 relating to bridges of all five open negotiating positions of five negotiating positions, plus one additional Chapter 35. As for Cluster 2, relating to the internal market, we have opened four and two negotiating positions have been handed over from a total of nine negotiating positions. Also, as regards Cluster 3, "Competition, Social Inclusion, Economic Growth", five negotiating positions were opened, and two were temporarily closed out of eight negotiating chapters. Cluster 4 which I have already mentioned, "Green Agenda and Infrastructure", has been handed over three negotiating positions of a total of four negotiating chapters. Cluster 5 "The Resources of Agriculture and Cohesion Policy", two of the five negotiating chapters have been opened. Cluster 6 "Sex relations", one negotiating position is open from two negotiating chapters. We recently had a debate on the Committee on European Integration, where they were representatives of the European Integration Ministry who submitted a report on the state of play in Serbia's EU membership negotiations. I can inform you that the negotiating positions are for five more chapters, these are chapters 2, 3, 14, 21 and 27, and that the negotiating positions are for two more chapters, these are for Chapter 28 concerning consumer and health protection and Chapter 10 "Information Society and Media", they have entered into the final phase of consultation and coordination with the European Commission's comments. From all things, it can be concluded that Serbia is truly in charge of the true process of European integration and that we want our society and our country as soon as possible to bring into a European family of people, to whom we are really seeking and to whom we belong. Since the very beginning of European integration, ever since we started to open negotiating positions, since we opened negotiations, we have really advocated accepting European values, and these are really not empty stories, because we want to truly implement all those European values in our society. Let me remind you, every country that respects a set of values defined in Article 2. The EU Treaty, and the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights, including minority rights, which has committed to promoting them, can, on the basis of Article 49 of this Treaty, apply for EU accession. We also have additional criteria, and these are criteria from Copenhagen in 1993, which relate to political, economic and legal criteria and another additional criterion from Madrid for the existence of adequate administrative capacity for gradual and coherent integration. Today in the House of National Assembly we are discussing for the first time in a plenary session on the conclusions of the European Commission Report on Serbia in 2020. The report was formally presented to the resolution minister in charge of European integration, on 6 October 2020. It is really important when we read, since we have indeed had a fruitful debate today, for more than five hours we are discussing the conclusions of the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress in 2020, we really need to read this report in different ways and we need to have a broad picture of what is happening at this time in 2020 and in the EU itself and in many EU member states as well as what is happening in the negotiations held by the Government of Serbia. The most important chapter for Serbia is certainly progress in chapters 23 and 24, and it is about chapters that are first opened in candidate countries, and the last one is closed. It states that Serbia has a certain level of preparedness with the application of European standards in this area and that very limited progress has been made overall. Positive parts refer to a peaceful dispute settlement, to a reduction in the number of lagging cases in the fight against corruption, it is said that Serbia has a certain level of preparedness in the fight against corruption. I would like to remind all MPs that this year, in September of the month, it came into force and began to apply the Corruption Prevention Act, that we as the National Assembly, that is, the Resolute Administrative Committee, have been working all this time to strengthen the capacity of this Agency to combat corruption. Also, the Law on the financing of political activities and the Law on Public Enterprises in the Work related to the financing of political activities during the campaign has been positively assessed. Also, the positive results have been achieved by the application of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption. Today, at the beginning of today's debate, we heard some representatives of opposition political parties who interpreted the comments in the report in different ways when it comes to the protection of the rights of national minorities. I would like to point out, as an MP coming from the SNS from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, that part of the protection of the rights of national minorities, indeed, has been positively assessed and without any negative political connotations in the whole part that my colleague, Elvira Kovac, has given you, and it concerns fundamental rights. Also, in Chapter 24. Serbia has a certain level of preparation for the implementation of EU legal flows on justice, freedom and security and that some progress has been made in terms of last year's recommendations, particularly with regard to the adoption of the Strategy and the Action Plan for the Control of Light and Small-caliber Weapons, where Serbia has continued to improve its international police co-operation and to make significant contributions as a transit country to the management of mixed migration flows towards the EU by playing an active and constructive role and effective co-operation with its neighbours and EU member states. With this in mind, in this part of the report for Chapter 24, it highlights a significant agreement with Frontex that has been ratified and whose application we expect. The agreement on co-operation between Eurostat and Serbia came into force in December 2012. Also, this part of the report highlights well-established co-operation with Interpol and Europol. The level of co-operation with the EU Training and Law Implementation Agency is satisfactory. Serbia was removed in June 2019 from the list of financial actions, the FATS countries with strategic shortcomings in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. It is about that law, which we at one of the previous sessions and adopted, that is to say, we adopted its amendments and amendments, it is about the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. And, when in one responsible way you want to commit yourself to the process of European integration, then, indeed, you must follow all those recommendations and those international and European standards that you receive from relevant international and European institutions. I would also like to point out that the report covers the period from June 2019 to October 2020, and that it is similar to that report on the rule of law from June 2020 on political criteria. We can when we read this report in the entire integrated text, all 140 sides translated into Serbian, say that with some estimates, we can agree or not, that it is relatively objective and that it is not taken into account and that not all of the efforts that the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia has made in the field of judicial reform, media freedom, the protection of journalists, pluralism and the fight against corruption and organised crime are not fully recognised. I would like from this place to remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that at the beginning of 30 January 2020, the government adopted a media strategy for the period from 2020 to 2025, in a truly transparent and inclusive way and which has defined in a good way the main challenges in terms of freedom of the media in Serbia. In early December of this year, meaning a few days ago, the Action Plan was adopted, the first Action Plan for the period from 2020 to 2022, which aims to implement this media strategy that covers areas concerning the improvement of the public information system, which guarantees freedom of expression, freedom of the media, the security of journalists, media pluralism and a strengthened media profession. From year to year, I would say, in all these previous reporting periods, the economic criteria have indeed been assessed in the best way and this is the most commended part of the report and so it is year by year. Serbia has made some progress and has been moderately prepared, i.e. has a good level of preparedness in developing a functional market economy. It is also said that Serbia has achieved a high degree of compliance with legal assets in the area of protection of the euro against counterfeiting and the protection of the European Union's financial interests. In the part of the external audit, the quality of audit work is constantly improving. Serbia has been reported to have made good progress in the area of competition policy and Serbia is said to be well prepared in the area of transport policy and that reforms in the railway area have continued. Also in the report, you can find the part that I have not heard today that MPs have particularly apostrophe that the efforts and responsible actions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia during the pandemic and during the first wave of the pandemic in Serbia have been praised. The government provided two financial aid packages, a total of 5.7 billion euros to support the economy during the duration of the pandemic caused by the Kovid-19 virus. The packages contained dedicated budgets for direct cash subsidies in the private sector, for a programme of improved loans and for loans with the guarantee of the state. Also, additional financial assistance through support programmes has been provided for particularly affected sectors during a pandemic such as tourism. In addition, the government of the Republic of Serbia paid minimum earnings to employees in small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia and delayed paying taxes and contributions to social and health insurance. All citizens over the age of 18 have been offered a 100-euro cash transfer. The year 2020 is a year of challenge, but also a year of European solidarity, I would say. Serbia is a good example of presenting solidarity and showing true solidarity in action. Serbia thus donated 2m euros at an intergovernmental EU conference, held in May 2020, to help develop public access to vaccines, tests and medicines aimed at combating Kovid 19 diseases. First contingent... It arrived in Serbia and the vaccination started in Serbia before it started in some EU member states. When we talk about citizens, Serbia is always apostrophe that is the benefits of European integration. We, as MPs, when we are in contact with citizens, can indeed say that these benefits and those projects that we are carrying out together under the auspices of the EU are, indeed, visible and in every place, from the restoration of schools, maternity schools, universities, bridges that link us even more closely to the entire Western Balkans region, to Europe, but also to the whole world. You don't have to be a Eurofanatic at this point, or an exaggerated Eurooptimist, and to see it and to see that these positive examples can be seen in some small village, a small town, but also in large cities in Serbia. The report also states that it is another significant benefit established in the previous period, which is the adoption of a new regional Roma agreement and is a key achievement in the field of realising the goals of the Digital Agenda for Europe. Also, good progress has been made with regard to the right of business residence and freedom to provide services, the adoption of the Law on Postage Services and the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. I would like to point out from this place that the EU itself during this reporting period has continued to face the number of challenges, from Bregzit, the migrant crisis, the adoption of the 2021-2027 financial plan, as well as the emphasis on eurosceptics in certain EU member states. Otherwise, Euroscepticism is a phenomenon from the British continent. For the first time, the term Euroscepticism was mentioned in 1986 in a British newspaper. The vastly narrow specialty was that it was exclusively a phenomenon at the beginning in the UK, the United Kingdom, but now Euroscepticism has many countries of the European Union's core. You can find representatives of political groups, political parties who advocate some, simply, more critical, more thoughtful views in which direction and what the future of the European Union itself is and in many countries such as France, Germany, Ireland or other Member States of the European Union. Also, I would say that the whole world, including the EU and Serbia, has been hit by a global phenomenon of what a pandemic of the coronary virus is, and that at that moment we were all on the same task, on the one hand, to preserve human health, to fight to preserve the lives of people in the pandemic, and on the other hand, parallel to that, to work on both preservation and to fight to preserve jobs. As I said before, 2020 is the year of European solidarity. Serbia helped other countries during the pandemic of the coronary virus. We did send help to our Italian friends when they needed help most. It is about assistance in the form of medical equipment intended for civil defence in Italy. The donation consisted of two million surgical masks, two million epidemiological masks, a million protective gloves, and 100,000 Skuffanders for healthcare workers, with one clear message – we will win together, brave Italy, Serbia is with you. I would now finish my first part of today's presentation. We often need those words of encouragement, and I would say the most needed at the moment when we face such a vicious enemy. Serbia has indeed received significant financial assistance from the European Union. I would take the opportunity from this place, as the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, to thank our European partners for everything they did during the pandemic. I would call on all fellow MPs, regardless of which political parties they come from, to support the conclusions, to actively engage in the process of European integration, because this is the common denominator that we are missing at this point in order to ensure that we really have a dream, which is that Serbia becomes a full member of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2348	Thank you. We're going on the list of MPs to report for word. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2349	Dear President, honourable Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, we are today discussing a proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the Report from the European Commission. As the Justice and Reconciliation Party, we absolutely support the path of the Republic of Serbia towards full membership in the EU, and we believe that there is no alternative. I would also like to point out that I am particularly pleased that Foreign Minister Selakovic is present today, despite numerous obligations and this is proof of responsibility and respect for the National Assembly and citizens. I want to congratulate him on the fight he's fighting in his portfolio, representing our country and all its citizens. It is clear that our orientation towards the EU is the most significant foreign policy priority and that this road has no alternative. All honors to all our allies and friends in both the East and the West, but we, both geographically and politically and worthly, belong to Europe and we want to be formally members of the European family of the people. The values of the EU heritage are values that we have and in our tradition. What we need, especially when it comes to our economy and our economy is free flow of people and goods, rule of law, respect for diversity and equal chance for everyone. Analysing the percentage of support among citizens of European integration, we see that after 2000 we had really high expectations and a high percentage of support and year by year that percentage varies. Why? Because people expected us to have German standards, German roads and German wages overnight. It does not happen overnight, however, and it is one process that takes place from day to day, year to year. What I want to point out is why the EU is important to an ordinary citizen. The total trade between our country and the EU is 24.9 billion euros. This today is 250 times more than in 2009. Exports amounted to 11.3 billion euros for every citizen and citizen, regardless of whether he lives here in Belgrade, Vojvodina, in Sandzak means a safe salary, means new jobs, means safe pensions and social benefits. However, what I want to point out when I talk about the EU is that neither is everything white nor is everything black with us. I would especially like to point out our country's relationship to migrants. I want to highlight the way our country, our government and our institutions have fought this challenge and compare the way it has done it, for example, Croatia or some other European countries that are very often telling us about the rule of law. The defeat of anti-Semitism, anti-Slamism and xenophobia in the EU is really worrying and I can say that we as a society can really be very proud there. What I'm trying to say from the position of minority peoples is that, compared to some earlier times, the position of members of minority communities is being corrected, and that's something to persist on, and I expect this government to make an additional contribution to that. What we as members of the Bosniak people, but also all minority communities, expect is to enter deeper implementation when it comes to hiring members of minority communities in the public sector, especially when it comes to courts, prosecutors, police, public enterprises. I think we really need that. Also, we have a big open question regarding the duality of the work of the Islamic community. We expect this issue as part of Eurointegration to be resolved in a way that, in accordance with the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, we will have a traditional Islamic community as Muslims in the Republic of Serbia expect. It's very symptomatic. We are talking about the EU today, about European integration, but I must point out that in the area I come from, and this is what academic Zukorlic mentioned in the discussion this morning, we have a problem with the supply of electricity. So, apart from these European standards, apart from fighting for new jobs, we have to make sure that a citizen, a farmer who lives in a village in the cave or in the Komara region, is the EU that he has a regular supply of electricity, what is the state of the low voltage network. So I use this pay phone to say that we're getting closer to the holidays, the New Year, Christmas and all the other holidays that are coming, that people are going back inside to their parents, and that's one problem that we urgently have to solve. I call on all citizens to visit municipalities in Serbia and the interior instead of making a fuss in the winter tourist centres. There are very beautiful municipalities such as Prijepolje, such as Zlatar Mountain, such as Sjenica and the Ski Centre "Zari", such as Pribojska and Novopazarska Banja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2350	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2351	Thank you. I just wanted to comment briefly. And before, I had a bit of an earburn when my colleague Stojkovic said that European integration and the European future remain some dream we dream of. Indeed, it is not a dream release, but an active solution and a political decision that we have all entered and as a government and citizens who have supported it on several election cycles, because earlier in the first discussion, it has been talked about how the 2022 elections will be, but let's not forget that they were this year and that citizens have been very active and very ready to recognise what is better, which has their own problem, which undoubtedly has a price, to be realistic, but that the benefits and privileges that go with that status make sense and that Serbia has the right to belong to everything that we have as a capacity for integration. So let's not just talk about desert dreams, let's talk about active solutions. As for what MP Tandir said about supporting European integration, you know, since 2000, we have been listening to the year of full membership of Serbia 2003, then 2007, then 2009, 2011 from those who were then running a pro-European declaration policy and who for all the problems that existed in the fully devasted economic system and economic policy of Serbia, said Brussels was responsible, that is, for the demands coming from Brussels. Therefore, the unfounded promises that were obviously unrealistic, plus the continuing blame of Brussels for a catastrophic economic policy that led to almost a state in 2012 facing bankruptcy, are, among other things, a huge loss of confidence for the citizens of Serbia in what it is. In the process of European integration itself, it was further complicated that since 2015, and I can tell you this, because I have been leading the process since 2014, the relationship of a significant number of EU member states to enlargement policy has changed, and then we have been struck by European integration on both sides. So, on the one hand, those who are skeptical because of all the unfulfilled promises, so first of all in the reform process, on the other hand, because of that, it began, to be honest, to start and to coincide with the migrant crisis, when a wave of skepticism towards enlargement policy and new states occurs in Europe. In this sense, of course, the process has its own challenges that are reflected both in public opinion and support of citizens. But what's good and here's already I don't know which research says that still about half of the citizens, if they plead for membership in the referendum tomorrow, thinks it's a positive thing for the country and vote for it. Do they see a problem in the process? Looks like it. And there's a slightly higher percentage of those, or lower percentages of those who support the process itself, but if it's already talking about the future, it's always above 50%, and it has a significant number of unspecified ones. I therefore believe that the role of Parliament is to achieve your role in the process of European integration through networking with the European Parliament. I think it would be good if Parliament, too, was just my view as a minister who deals with this process, at a conference on the future of Europe that would be an important topic for the entire EU, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be actively participating. I'm just saying, as far as the loss and collapse of the power supply system is concerned, you said it was in the villages. I assume you mentioned what I call Raski and Zlatibor County. You know, I have a family house on the Prydnik above the 1932 Prepolje, and I remember well, when I was a kid, and when the first snow went out, there was electricity at those altitudes of 1,500 altitudes and the roads of the bad ones, and that was the 80s and the 90s and so on. I agree there's work to be done, there's problems. I also have to tell you that it happens everywhere in Europe. We had a situation three years ago in the Czech Republic, not just villages, but cities that ran out of electricity. You had only one year in New York that they were out of electricity. These are things that are not targeted towards anyone or give God to the inhabitants of national minorities, because they live there both Serbs and Bosniaks and various other national minorities and all share the same problems. I agree that attention should be paid to that, but I don't think it's directed at any kind of additional restriction towards anyone who's a member of the national minority. That neighborhood usually has a lot of problems, infrastructure first of all. The area was one mono-industrial economy where out of two or three factories lived five or six municipalities and cities. It's not easy to overcome now, but more attention needs to be paid. I know the end, so I know it's not directed against anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2352	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger Samir Tandir, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2353	I want to thank Minister Joksimovic for his reply. When I say Sandzak, I absolutely don't mean one ethnic group. So these are the municipalities, as you said in the Goldibor County and in the Rasko County. I think there's a problem in Ariel, too. I represent all the citizens and citizens who live in that space, and it's not directed, when there's no power or when we have a hole on the road, not against any ethnic group, I absolutely agree, we just have a problem with citizens who define it very plastically. So you're an MP, you're guilty, so it's the Prime Minister's fault and then you get to the president of the state. So, the CEO of the EPS of someone there in Uzic, Prepolje, King, New Market, no one calls for responsibility. For them, the state -- the president, prime minister, minister, president of the municipality and MP if they know him. So in order to lower that level of responsibility, to take a little care of what's going on and in these public enterprises, it simply doesn't take government or state to take responsibility, let's just see what's going on, secondly, to see what's going on in that low-voltage network. As far as the EU is concerned, my question has just been directed towards this, because all the MPs who voted for this government have some responsibility and we do not want anyone to honor us for making unreal promises before us, as he said in 2003, 2005, 2007 or 2010. For this reason, we have one disappointment among the citizens. For this reason, it was my question that few of these things would be explained and agreed, to see who was responsible and, of course, the situation in the EU is not what it was in 2000 and we have Eurosceptic countries that believe some Western Balkan countries should not join the EU. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2354	Thank you. You took advantage of the line. Of course, when it comes to Sandzak, you know that Sandzak is the administrative unit of the Ottoman Empire, and there were them on the territory of the former Yugoslavia 27. The next time you're talking about a Sanjak, you might want to say which sandbox you're referring to, whether it's new-market, whether it's someone else, etc., when we're talking about history. I don't think you should ask that question at all, as some others ask from the aspect of Serbia's territorial organisation, changes to the constitution, the law. It's a question for which there is a regular procedure. By the way, I don't think that was maliciously placed on your part. Let's move on. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2355	I will not support this conclusion, not because of the conclusion itself, but because it is part of the policy – the EU has no alternative. When 200 years ago our founders of modern statehood in Maricevic, along with my Sumadinians, moved to create a state and then the Ottoman Empire had no alternative. When, 115 years ago, Serbs decided not to be part of the Habsburg monarchy and their foreign policy plan, it seemed that the empire had no alternative. So, the Brussels Empire, too, has no alternative to how it is presented to us now, and in the end this conclusion and all the subordination of the reports of the EU and its commission is some sort of something that adds up to what the President of the Assembly said nicely, mentioning the Sandzaks, which is the leadership of the persuasion. I don't know if you know what tailwater is, but our ancestors used to have to, when age and escapes come to their house, take and lead freaks around the yard. This humiliation that they refused 200 years ago is much like what we are experiencing today when Lajcak says he will end our constitution, this constitution that states that Kosovo and Metohija are in the preamble of an inseparable part of Serbia. We all know something here that we don't talk about, but I think we should say, at least because of that half of our citizens who don't think the EU has an alternative, which is that the decision is whether Serbia will be part of the EU is not dependent on us and our will, that they will decide when it suits them. Over the past 20 years, it hasn't been right for them, and that's why we've had continuous shifts, uninterrupted conditions. Because, simply, why would they take us on responsibility, why would they have to give us some benefits given by countries that are part of the EU when all their interests through Belgrade authorities come true in our country, in our economy, in our people, and for that they don't have to give us anything else. The nine billion they mention, which will invest in the Balkans, the Western Balkans, will go to many countries, including Albania, some Macedonia, countries that have not bombed, in which their army has not occupied part of the territory, as NATO is an army and the EU, countries where they have not sown the uranium. Because if someone who represents Serbia in the talks with them told them – sorry, gentlemen, your intervention was past the Security Council's decision. She was a violation of all international rules and there may be some obligation to pay for the damage you've done. Would this nine billion look anything like it? So the story of democracy living in Brussels is a lie. It does not live there, because the Brussels democracy ignored a Macedonian referendum that did not want to accept what was done by their country. This Brussels bureaucracy is not a place to take care of social justice. So there's no social justice in Brussels either. About how they treat their dissatisfied citizens, we watched for a year how French police officers democratically explain "yellow vests" what democracy is and what respect for other people's minds and ways of thinking differently. Now that you look at all this, we're going to get into a situation very soon to ask the question – what if they estimate that we need us to enter the EU in a year and decide to accept us? Then what are we gonna say? You from the ruling coalition, first of all, friends of the SNS, what will you tell your voters when they say – wait, it is normal, you enter the EU, but without Kosovo? We are buying time so far and you are nothing different, nor more guilty than those before you, but they will not allow us to buy time when they decide to become part of the EU. At that moment, they will say that Kosovo cannot be part of Serbia. So what do we do? So how are we going to stand up, as we did 115 years ago in the Austro-Hungarian customs war that isolated us, because it counted on its economy, that Serbia depends on its economy? We then had friends who helped us win that customs war, but because we were aware that two thirds of exports and imports should not depend on one enemy force as the Brussels Union today. I'm just interested in, a naive question that our country's representatives, who I respect as representatives of our country, no matter how politically I disagree with them -- what it feels like when you come to a man who plays a serious man and represents a Brussels diplomat and you tell him -- you see, sir, from 2013, to now, seven years, you didn't meet what you signed in the Brussels Agreement. You know, if in some private-law relationship with someone signed a contract and he'd been dragging you around for seven years and you were talking to him, I'd assume it was a great humiliation. Because I think it's time we gave up this humiliation, I'm not voting for this conclusion. I think it's time we started to seriously think about what we're going to do when they decide to accept us without KIM, with democratic standards that they have shown in relation to Macedonia, with those democratic standards that they have shown according to the "yellow vests" and not to ask the most frightening question, what happened in Macedonia very soon, and that is that they have asked them, EU member Bulgaria, to call Macedonia's occupation in World War II an occupation, but administrative administration. What will happen when the Croats, as a member of the EU, tell us – you can go to the EU, but say that the Ustashas in Zemun and Simist were not occupiers but administrators? Then what are we gonna say?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2356	Mr. Gliss, you must finish. Thank you. The word is Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2357	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened with full attention to the presentation of my esteemed predecessor and heard many things I cannot agree with, heard those things that I could and might talk about and perhaps divulge my doubts about whether I understood correctly, but it is a very indicative one thing. So, when our ancestors gathered in the Maricevic Jarus in the then Belgrade Pashalu, and there were slightly less than 400,000 in the area where nearly three million people live today, Serbia had no alternative for them. And day and day for us here, nothing has changed. Serbia has no alternative. So I wouldn't quite agree with them if the Ottoman Empire had no alternative. They showed that they had the courage, to have the firm will, to know what they were fighting for, and when we succeeded in the new century to restore our country we sent our most capable, most talented young people to school just west. We sent them to Vienna, we sent them to Paris, we sent them to Berlin, Munich, we trained them there, and we brought them back to Serbia to set up a system and build a country well in the western sense, but one good part according to that Serbian model, building Serbia's local self-government, strengthening municipalities, strengthening then the village and peasants, because we were a country that was both a rural and agrarian country until the other half of the 20th century. Also, when our ancestors north of Sava and Danube rebelled against the depriving of the autonomy guaranteed to them, when they came to an opportunity after the First World War to plead, they organised elections for the Great National Assembly and in these elections our ancestors recognized both the active and passive voting rights of women, which took place in some Western European countries half a century after that. It's all people, and it's all works that we should be proud of, but our ancestors were in a very difficult situation to make decisions not only with their heart, but also with their heads. When they brought them in with their heads, they knew they were also measuring the resources they had and what they could do. Of course, there were situations where there was no talk of what was available because they meant the absolute denial of our dignity, the national honor of existence. Today, looking from this distance, someone says they may have been wrong somewhere, someone that they haven't, but these are things we can't influence. Looking at what they did, we can influence what we do today and what will happen in a near future. We can't go back 20, 25, or 30 years, so we can't look back at how much, how much our parents or some of our older colleagues have been able to make serious mistakes 30 years ago and today we as a people and as a state are seriously suffering because of it, but these are also examples that we need to look up to, knowing that we shouldn't act in certain situations. 20 years ago, Serbia did not border with any single EU member. Twenty years ago, more specifically 21 years ago, Serbia did not border with any single NATO member state. It's been a while since this opportunity had to be taken advantage of in a different way. We are today a country bordering four countries, EU member states. We are today a country bordering seven NATO member states, and if we include the NATO military in BiH, although it is not unanimously defined for Atlantic integration, then we realize that we are lonely here too. We are today a country that exports 67% of its industrial production to EU countries. We are today a country that is economically rising Serbia, strengthening our country, raising the standard of living for our citizens, increasing the average salary, pensioning, bringing foreign investors we are trying to stop the outflow of our people, where, in the EU, we are mostly in the EU. To understand one thing - it is true that our state policy is an EU association policy, it is true that we are the state that is in the process of association, which opened the negotiating chapters, 18 of them temporarily closed two, we have prepared five, but it is also true that each of us individually here, if asked, could indicate what faults are both in the EU Member States and in the EU as a single species of state union. Do we all agree on everything? We disagree. There is much we would resent, but the fact is that today in the modern world, in that part of the world that is accessible to Serbia, there is no more orderly and perspective system than that. It is about the EU and the Serbian pathway of European integration. It is up to us to improve our system, strengthen it, build it, modernise it, not because of the EU, but because of our citizens, because of our citizens and because of our economy. It's something that, be assured, we as a state from the head of state, the President of the Republic, the Government to all the institutions of our system will continue to do. Now there's another question being asked, and you were saying, among other things, sorry about the direct address, it's nothing offensive, that's what my esteemed previous spoke about, the price question is being asked. Are we going to be made by the Lajcak Constitution? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being tailored by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, deciding on both its adoption and its amendments. No individual. A citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Is that a democratic principle? Absolutely. I don't think that kind of democratic principle will be denied or attacked by anyone in the EU either. It is said - here, tomorrow to tell us to give up Kosovo and Metohija and you will be admitted into the EU. The first thing, nobody seriously in Serbia is considering or thinking about it, nor is that how it sets things up. It's first and foremost. The other thing is that none of them ever think about offering us. I will remind everyone, eight years ago, for EU member states whose voice is a little louder and stronger, the topic of KIM was put forward by ad act. That's what they didn't want to talk about. They weren't interested. The serious political skills of state leadership has been restored to the negotiating table. There's been a Brussels deal. Then attacked all those who signed it by today's National Assembly President, then Prime Minister, first Deputy Prime Minister, today's President of the Republic. Everyone who signed it was attacked. At that time, President Vukic said in Leposavic -- one day we will stick to the straw of salvation for the Brussels Agreement, as the Dayton Agreement was attacked 25 years ago, and today the Dayton Agreement is a guarantee of survival, peace and stability in BiH. Today we call on it. We were able to return this topic to the table, on the agenda, that after the Brussels Agreement we would move into its implementation, that Serbia as a state would restore the credibility of a serious and responsible partner and the West in EU countries, but also beyond that. Today when they tell you -- you know, you have to show greater commitment to the dialogue, of course they'll tell you such a general place, because they can't tell you a single point of the Brussels Agreement that Belgrade didn't meet. We showed how serious and responsible we are. Did the agreement reduce the level of Serb rights to KIM? I think of one thing to be proud of, it doesn't take much to celebrate, but to be proud, that agreement has preserved our peace. We didn't even have exodus. We haven't even had mass attacks on Serbs and Serbs on KIM. We didn't get killed. We didn't have the burning of our sanctity again. He kept the peace. He brought us back to the negotiating table and we started talking about things that our positions are so different, but he showed that dialogue is the key to solving problems and nothing else. So that kind of dilemma in front of us nobody sets it up. There are other things we need to talk about. You know, when we talk about Serbia more than two centuries ago, we talk about the territory where it lives at that moment more than 90% of our Serbian compatriots and they fight for their survival and for their children and for their hearth and for their future, and we are saddened by KIM in the past and almost 80 years of the people whose numbers are constantly falling from year to year. You know, that's not how Mr Glisic showed it, because there's seriousness in his words and in his politics and his concern, I see it, but there's no place of concern as long as people like President Vukic and SNS are seriously and responsibly deciding about Serbia. What's the big deal? What was I gonna say? Some others spoke – you know, comparing this situation to 1389, with the Kosovo Battle, etc. Well, at the time our great-grandfathers were defending the country in KIM, 98% of Serbs lived in KIM alone. We have, if I'm not mistaken today, four municipalities on KIM, right, where we have no one but a Serb head, no one, and not what we don't have, but what many of whom are easy to talk about these things from Belgrade would never go to live there, ever. They didn't go there to live even when we had active sovereignty until 1999. It's easy for us to talk about it from here, but we need to think about one thing very well. Like, in Pasyan, you have a guy and a girl who's 21 years old, grown men. They live in this majority Serbian place, a place where we managed to raise a hospital from nothing a few years ago, on the ice, to build a hospital, to build a maternity home. People couldn't go to Gjilans before since 1999, and they needed to go to Vranj, cross the administrative crossing, the procedure and everything. So no mother could deliver here. The Wolf's government raised a maternity home there, raised a hospital, hired people. They have serious care there today. So, in this Pasyan, you have a boyfriend and a girl who's 21 years old. They were born in 1999 after leaving our security forces. They don't know what it means to live in a village where you have a Serb police officer or a Serb soldier. Today is the end of 2020, bring them not to Belgrade, to Novi Sad, Vranje, Nis, Kragujevac, without talking about EU countries, to see how their peers live, what they think, how they plan time, where they move. They still can't leave Budriga. They can't even go to Budrig. And then one question arises for anyone who wants to seriously and normally plan to develop our country – what can we offer these young people? They're not children anymore, they're people who go to the polls, who vote. What perspective should we offer them? The state of Serbia is making every effort to help our people in KIM and to keep them, because other than our people and our sanctity down there, we have no stronger argument. As long as a Serb or a Serb lives in Kosovo, our fight makes sense. But the question arises – what can you offer them? How am I supposed to convince someone to stay and live where none of us are willing to go to live? Is that okay? Is that normal? Is that fair? And to understand that down there 92-93% of the population are people who have a very hostile attitude towards our country. Time passes and someone convinces us – time works for us. He's not working time for us. As much as we change our power among the great, we are crowned by our main argument on the ground. And then we come to the National Assembly to discuss these things, to realize that it's hard for us to keep people here in central Serbia, let alone people in KIM and to talk – someone will admit, someone will change the Constitution, someone like this, someone. You know what, people who are serious about politics don't talk about things like that in public. What's to be measured? It's about what's done. It measures what is a concrete result. And the concrete result is that in this year, we were born 1.5% but more down. A concrete result is that the people don't move as they did before. The concrete result is that we have no ethnic conflicts of great proportions, no arson, no murders. The concrete result is that this year we have managed more than 60% of the foreign investment in the Western Balkans to bring here to us, to hire our people here, to raise our salaries here, to raise our pensions here and say – despite all that has hit us in the Kovida pandemic – 19, that Serbia will come out as the first at the rate of growth in Europe. These are things that seemed unimaginable. We next year, if things continue to move forward, we will top Croatia's GDP. And I'll remind you, seven years ago, when we went seriously into fiscal consolidation, that same neighbouring Croatia was admitted to the EU. It is our task to lead the country on the path of European integration, to fight to make Serbia a more orderly, better and stable society, to fight to the end to ensure that the Serbs in KIM are safe and sustainable, to fight for each of our saints, not to be threatened, not to spread big and big words, but to work for the achievement of great works. But it takes a long time. What we still have a problem, not as it was seven, eight years ago, not to say 15 years ago, is to try to convince our friends and our partners in the West that this is no longer Serbia from 25 or 30 years ago, which many of them still have in their head in relation to us. She's learned a lot from Serbia. We've learned a lot about politics. And if you ask me -- what has no alternative, Serbia has no alternative. Everything else is variable categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2358	Thank you. Minister Joksimovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2359	Thank you. I listened to my colleague Selakovic, and he and I may be a little different schools of opinion, but I agree with only one. Because what you said, Glissy, that's amazing. To tell you that in Maricevic, when the uprising was raised, it showed that, imagine, the Ottoman Empire has no alternative. Well, that uprising and all the subsequent twists you've counted in your presentation have proved that Europe has no alternative for Serbia. For me, there is no alternative to Serbia in Europe. It may be a small difference that we have, but it's essentially the same. Because by reading historical processes, such insertion of culture only memories and management of the past, you just don't see the address and you don't know where the future lives, so you talk to, imagine, you say - this northern Macedonia, that Albania, so what is the relationship to these countries? Is someone supposed to say tomorrow? Well, that's Serbia. I have never heard of Vucic, or the Prime Minister, or any of the MPs talking about our neighbours in this way – some Albania, some Northern Macedonia, some Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, we, in the end, shared some historical periods, whatever they were. But here it is constantly managed by the past and your whole story of solving or trying to find a European solution is a European solution, not to go back into violence and blood, which is why the European Union has also created to prevent this violence and blood that has divided and destroyed Europe for centuries. That is why the Brussels Agreement was signed by the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy Catherine Ashton at the time, because we have resolved, and this is our contribution to peace and stability, that our sensitive, difficult, national issue, which is neither pleasant nor easy to negotiate nor in talks, is put into service of European instruments that have preserved Europe from the beginning of the '50s until today, with the exception of, unfortunately, our region which has not been in the European Union. If we had another 30-40 years of peace in Europe, so that's a hundred years of peace in Europe, it's unremembered in the history of Europe. This is the goal of European integration, in addition to, of course, the economic one, in addition to everything that brings improvement to every citizen in Serbia at any part of Serbia he lives on, as the previous MP spoke of. So regional development for each and every improvement for every citizen in any part of the territory. Therefore, such a relationship, some Albania and some Northern Macedonia, and it leads to us being perceived and still as someone who actually fines the neighborhood, who actually finess everything, because we are, for God's sake, a hegemonic Serbia who talks to everyone in a paternal way. If Vukic has shown something by his policy and there is no loading at all, it is that he is ready to talk, to agree that we do not underestimate anyone, not to humiliate anyone, that we want to talk to everyone, of course, taking care of our own interests, it is nothing controversial. But, Glisic, you're talking, I have to talk to you like this, because I'm surprised you said that, when you talk about Serbia like this, our non-European identity, how you presented it, it's like listening to Teofil Pancic and Dezulovic when they tell me about the casabs of Belgrade. First of all, I don't want to accept it, and I don't want to. Is this a line of opinion that, through the imagined limit, across the west, east, sets Serbia still into a non-European cassaba? So I think you're on the wrong side of the argument and I'll never agree to that. Serbian identity is part of the cultural synthesis of Europe and the European Union. Is there a problem in the process? There is. Selakovic talked about it enough, there are objective problems in the EU, but indeed from you as someone who says he is a patriot, I expect you to be on the line of what is best in Serbia, and Serbia has given a lot of European heritage in every respect. In that sense, don't take this as some horrible debate with you right now, but I really think we should move our focus a little bit and see where the future lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2360	Thank you. Vladan Glisic answered the line, only I would like to draw attention not to go further away from the essence and flow of this session. It is not the subject of this session or the work of the Government, or of any other foreign policy matter, or of the internal political one, we have a clear goal, and that is to consider the report on the progress of the European Commission, or our conclusions of the Committee, and I would ask you to return to the discussion of the MPs, because we will not be able to do what we need to do in view of the end of the regular session. I'll give, if Mr. Glisic wants, a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2361	Let me explain. The Honorable Minister didn't understand me about a few things, although it's interesting that this difference in attitude between her and the foreign minister is something that I, as far as I'm concerned, know that I'm not a fan of both the SNS and the Government, I didn't even vote for her, but as far as foreign policy is concerned, I'm willing to admit that this may be the only foreign policy that can be run right now. In that sense, I did not replicate the minister, because in many things I would agree with him, and I admit that it is as only possible and that this story is about us having to go into European integration, when I say, I mean European integration of the Brussels Union, for the simple reason that we are in a situation that two thirds of the economic co-operation depends on them and that we are now really, as someone who put the throat under the knife of a robber who has fallen into his house and who wants to take something from him, and we are from the position of someone who holds the throat on his knife and we know that we cannot tell him everything we should tell him about how he behaves, because we could go through those two-thirds of the economy that is bound to make us such chaos in the country that we can no longer form of sovereignty to defend. That is why, in some ways, I have sent this as a warning that we have to work urgently, to get out of this dependence on the European Union, and that is one segment. This second segment precisely shows that a respected minister belongs to another wing that I am politically fighting, and that's the part that he thinks is... First of all, we didn't understand a few things. When I mentioned Maricevic's ravine, I said that someone at the time told our ancestors that the Ottoman Empire had no alternative, but they showed by their actions that Serbia had no alternative. The second thing, when I mentioned Macedonia and Albania, I didn't mention them at all in the persuasive sense, but I wanted to highlight something that is very important and that is coming back to this concept, is the European Union a peace project? It is, but for itself, not for us. Her army bombed us, her army broke us. So, I didn't say that Albania and Macedonia are in a pesoriatic sense, some are there, but those are countries that will get their help like we have, and they haven't been bombed, they're not buried with poor uranium, and that's the legacy of that European Union, and there's one more thing I want to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2362	Vlad, you're out of time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2363	I know, but since they were mostly talking, let me just finish this sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2364	Look how tolerated I am.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2365	Yeah. So, I think Serbia is a heritage of European values, I also advocate European Serbia, but I don't think the Brussels Union is a European Union or at least not for the British, but I can't believe that you think that Britain is not part of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2366	Thank you. I would just ask you to worry about our concerns, and that means we have a progress report, whether it's good, whether the objections we have are justified, are not justified, that we are not going in now, because I too could talk about who knows what, and I'm not talking about it because of Marijan Risticevic, who is about to come forward now, and I hope he doesn't spoil our European commitment. Here you go, Marian Rističević. Sign up, Marianne, sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2367	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my party is small, but honest and honest. Founded on May 20, 1990 in Novi Sad. One of the main programming goals, I think here I represent the oldest party, since DS is not present, at least as far as I can see in my original edition, it seems to me to be the only party from that year that has put the programme goal - entering the European Community. We weren't for the European Union back then, but we were for the European Community. Free flow of goods, people, capital was our programme policy. A somewhat enhanced political basis was also embedded in our desire to preserve the then Yugoslavia, to add to all European values a smaller army, the federalisation of Croatia, etc., to heal ethical tensions with some autonomy, in republics where they did not exist. Unfortunately, apart from our small parties, and the party of Ante Markovic later joined, there was not enough political power to implement such a programme. There's a password in politics -- it doesn't matter what you said, it matters when you said it. Obviously, the aspirations, primarily Croatia and Slovenia for separation from the then state, were stronger than wishes, and even Ante Markovic and smaller parties in Serbia, such parties in Croatia, Slovenia almost did not, that Yugoslavia was reorganised economically and politically and according to the principles of the European Community and that it entered the European Community. Now I ask, with that policy I was then a traitor, now with that same policy I'm a nationalist sometimes. Now I ask my brothers and fellow nationalists, what if someone heard our prayers and decided to give us all the territories our nationalists imagine in great Serbia? Let's say someone solves and says -- here's, I don't know, Kosovo, Macedonia, etc., I'm asking you -- and what kind of people would you settle that for? So they'd have to give us some extra people. I also ask those who are against the EU, are they against our brothers who have already joined the EU? The Serbian part by piece, 20% of Serbs entered the EU. Don't forget that. Joining the EU is an opportunity to conclude a Serbian national being. What do you think the Croats are so against Serbia's entry into the EU? Because Serbs, those 186,000 would unite in a larger and stronger way with Serbs living in Serbia, Bosnia if they enter, of course BiH if they join the EU, and all those Serbs living in the EU. So all Serbs would live again in one community of states as they lived in the SFRY. Hence, I think that the Croats are against Serbia entering the EU and a little concerned about the EU for the simple reason that the community in which Croatia and Slovenia are somehow concerned is not a factor in stabilising such communities. If I were in the EU, while the European Community was still in place, I would not receive some former Yugoslav republics or, say, Bulgaria, I would receive Serbia. Because the Serbian people are the guardians of the state and the community of states. They confirmed this by guarding the SFRY, because they experienced the state as their own and were the state's armature. That's why they were declared the main enemies and the bad guys precisely because those who broke the SFRY saw that the Serbs kept it the most then they declared them the bad guys. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the reasons why I continue to advocate the EU, which sometimes looks like SFRY and 1989 or 1988, and the common European agricultural policy and subsidies that farmers in the EU have thanks to a strong economy, etc., to 104 million hectares almost have 50 billion for agriculture and rural development. If you take one hectare as a unit of measure, it means that between 400 and 500 euros, with such subsidies our farmers would quickly outrun European farmers without talking about farmers in the region. Imagine, Croatia that has a minimum subsidy per hectare of 300 euros, our farmers, when I share more support in agriculture than in 2012, three times as much, have when divided by hectares 100 euros. So, three times Croatia has more subsidies if you take hectare as units of measure, but we are still more competitive here in the region than they are, we have better developed livestock production, etc. Now imagine that we have subsidies like they have in the EU, that our farmers exercise all these rights, I ask you how much more competitive we would be and how much more competitive our food industry would be, because of that it had cheaper raw materials and how much more competitive it would be on this regional and European market itself. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I read the European Commission's report, and I see that there are major objections to the media. Now, I'm looking at it like this, all of our almost political associates have become journalists. For me, journalists are people who work for registered media. However, about Serbia, thanks to excessive freedoms, you have a number of TV channels and portals that are absolutely not registered, and people who work for these portals and these TV channels are presented as journalists and they say, independent journalists. And I think opposition journalism, it's not independent journalism, what journalism is prone to the opposition. An independent journalist should only release information, not participate in information, and often journalists are also a source, broadcasters of information, etc. And sometimes when you hold a press conference, you certainly know that, Mr. Dacic, Mr. Selakovic and Madam Minister. You certainly know that sometimes you don't know whether you have the biggest political insolents asking questions or whether they're journalists. Often under the mark of a journalist, there is a large political camouflaged inexperience. So I ask the EU, what would they do if I were to register 30 channels fictitiously in India, if the state allowed me, 30 media channels, TV channels fictitiously, means I just register, don't have to broadcast them, and then open up a studio in Paris, Brussels, London no longer, and fortunately, the Serbs will probably change things towards us, if in all these cities we open a studio and they broadcast a program against the French government, against Macron, Germany against Merkel, attack all political ruling parties, I ask how many EU and EU countries would allow such a kind of programme to be broadcast against their governments, their politicians, would then consider them unregistered in their countries, the media, to act in such a way. I don't think we'd last 24 hours. Here, the main support is currently being given in Serbia by unregistered media fictitiously registered in Luxembourg. So I ask the EU, when it assesses the situation in the media, it is mostly based on this, in Serbia, unregistered media that are fictitiously registered somewhere in Luxembourg. As far as national minorities are concerned, we have a specific relationship with Tanja Fajon, we know that Mr Orlic and the members of the group in which he participates, so she should explain to me when national minorities were already mentioned, why in Serbia, not why, but in Serbia 4,033 Slovenians have national minorities status, believe it or not. So, according to the 2011 list, there may be more and less, I stress, source of the 2011 census, 4,033 Slovenes and 0,06% of the population. Those in Serbia who support it have the status of a national minority and a national council. The Serbs are in Slovenia, according to their sources 40,000, and by some others maybe 70,000 or 100,000, and by origin maybe half, they have no national minority status and many in Slovenia do not have national minority status, I think only Hungarians, Italians, have only two nations have national minorities. On this point, I am pleased that Serbia is a country where national minorities have far more rights than they have in certain EU countries. So, I don't want to return them to the rights that Serbs have in Slovenia, so that someone doesn't get me wrong. As far as I'm concerned, the opposition stands. Let's see how we deal with people, for the record, I'm about to deal with them. How do you deal with people who couldn't even deal with themselves? So, as anyone who is no longer president of the party, let's say in the 1990s, the party closest to my party under the programme was DS. I count only from the death of Djindjic, the political party formed the LDP, the New Party, the Turnover Movement, the Left Serbian Party, Tadic's party, Djilas's party, Zelenovic's party, a total of nine political parties came from one political party, because they couldn't even go with them. Now I ask the EU, how can we agree with people who could not agree with each other, even today have conflicts and how to place them in parliament in such a way? I said it in the face – ma'am, if you think you're going to help them, you need to unite them into one political party first. Calculate yourself, the SNS has won 60% of the vote despite the boycott, the SPS has won as much, so together the two ruling largest parties have won, the electoral lists, 70%. So, 30%, despite the boycott, voted for a divided opposition, etc. If they had come united without boycotts, today they would have about 90 opposition MPs here, but what I said, every village in the country couldn't deal with themselves and now the EU is complaining, that same lobbyist house lobbying for these School media, nonstop pressures, like you don't have a conversation in parliament, and they've boycotted and they didn't want to go to parliament, and they couldn't because they were so divided away from the 3%. The electoral conditions they left us, I guess everyone realized that they were only promoted by the descent of the census. I don't know what more we can do, just ask them and say come on, people, take over, call Tanya Fajon, we'll give you power. Serbia and Serbia's citizens should not do this because they would return Serbs very quickly to the beginning of 2012. It's up to us, I don't know if we're going to join the EU, we're certainly not going to let what someone thinks maybe Europe gives Serbia Belgrade with a close environment. Such a Serbia with a nearby environment will not enter the EU during this government, and if there are any revolutions, if someone by force returns those previous to power, I am not sure, but I will not be part of such a government. We don't know if we're going in, because the difference between the goal and the path is great. We should be on our way to the EU and because of this common agricultural policy and funds that are already arriving. This year we have received tens of millions of euros, and in total we need to get 184 million from an IPARD programme that is smaller than all others, we need to take advantage of all the funds they offer, including those that do not offer to beg, anything we can use on the way to the target, not wanting to avoid entering the EU, because I understand that the EU is not a country of dembel, that it will not just give pensions and wages, that the EU will finance, but when we enter it, it should be financed by it. Until we enter, it exclusively funds and helps raise the country and we need to build our country to be a leading country in the Balkans, so what happens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2368	Thank you. Just to tell Marian she didn't call me Tanya Fajon. It's common knowledge that I don't give power. Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2369	I thank you, I will be very brief because what MP Risticevic said about the common agricultural policy is very important. This is extremely important, it is now in cluster 5, so this regional development, even, cohesion policy, use of funds, agriculture, etc. From 2014, until 2020, I personally did this, because I am the national coordinator for pre-accession funds and signed and we managed to get accreditation for using IPARD for rural development, 175m euros free of charge for the seven-year period 2014-2020. I will tell you that those who have advocated the European path of Serbia for 10 years have held the Agrarian Payments Agency in Sapac, although it is the terms of the European Commission, and we will remember who was the Minister of Agriculture at the time, so, although the condition of the European Commission to allow us to access the IPARD funds was to move the Agrarian Payments Administration to Belgrade because of all administrative and all other obligations, this has not been done for years and Serbia has lost millions, perhaps hundreds of millions of euros for agriculture due to someone's partial interests. We did it in 2014 and 2015, and here in the tranches you get paid. These are programs for... The mechanisms, in general, now have an extended part for sustainable rural tourism. I must tell you that a large number of people across Serbia have applied for these funds. We also have workshops all over Serbia that we help, therefore, all interested in writing good projects and applying them, and that is something that is of great benefit to the process itself. As for membership, you're right. When you become a member then you have the European budget, but therefore access to structural funds is 10 or 15 times larger. That is why in this situation is now the post-cove of the pandemic or which is still going on, but next year is expected to be a year of recovery, EU member states, I will only give you an example, of course, it is not unconditional, but it has to be made a national programme of serious reforms and Croatia will get, if it does the National Programme 11 billion euros for recovery, Slovenia 5.2 and not to mention, I'm just talking about these countries that are in the region. So, of course, it is up to them to do a good national reform plan, support is not unconditional, but that is why it is important that our citizens know this and that the EU's largest grant donor IPA funds, so pre-accession funds, the investment framework for the Western Balkans, and here is now the economic-investment plan of nine billion and we have submitted a whole series of projects this year that most of our projects are included in this. Of course, no definitive decision has been made yet, so I wouldn't go with specific things, but wastewater treatment plants, corridors, so all of what's most of our plan, where we'll be able to combine our funds with our grants, and something will be grenades themselves. It's a very important aspect of our approach process. Thank you, Risticevic, for actively following it. I think it is very good that all people from Serbia, especially from local self-government, seem more active in preparing and training our people, especially agricultural producers, on the availability of these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2370	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2371	Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to say at first, we are not against European integration, we are against impasses in the process of European integration. Unfortunately, in 2020, it means a stalemate in this process. The European Commission's report for this year is one document that informs us in a comprehensive manner what stage the process of Eurointegration is at, what is all failed to do, what should be done to make it successful. The result of what? Excess methodologies or lack of democracy. The answer can be sought in a statement by Mr Vladimir Bilchik, the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia who says -- Serbia has not made a move in any of the above areas, but has been further moving away from Europe, arresting journalists, applying force to protesters, as the main partner in the fight against the Corona highlighted China, and criticising the EU. The proposed conclusions do not represent a realistic picture of the recommendations made by the report. When someone who has insight into the report reads the recommendations, it is the impression that this year was not solid, but very successful in this process. Whoever read the European Commission report has a clear view that the situation is not exactly like that and that the Republic of Serbia has been given a large number of recommendations, i.e. remarks to take action, so that this process is considered successful. On this occasion, I will refer only to some of the remarks in due time. For example, the reporting period marked deep social popularity. That the domination of the ruling party is worrying, and that it has not marked progress in improving freedom of expression, the National Action Plan for achieving a positive social environment for the functioning of civil society organisations has not been adopted. When it comes to the National Court of War Crimes of the War Court, it is largely secondary and ineffective, and the Hague convicts are hailed as heroes. The negation of war crimes is very strong. It is true that the report points out that the legal framework that includes European standards and standards for minorities is better than their actual position, but the truth is that the Advisory Committee of the Council of Europe concludes that there is a noticeable deviation in the protection of minority rights between the AP Vojvodina and other regions of Serbia, and recommends that Serbia improve the protection of the rights of national minorities outside Vojvodina. The government of the Republic of Serbia has continued to declare that European integration is its strategic goal, however, according to the report, several statements by senior officials were not in line with strategic definitions. Citizens are not informed enough that 70% of investments in Serbia come from EU countries, that the EU has invested 3.6 billion grants in Serbia, and that the EU is Serbia's largest lender with 4.3 billion euros. That is why the report rightly requires the Serbian authorities to place more emphasis on objective and unequivocal positive information on the EU, which is the main political and economic partner of the Republic of Serbia. So, the flossula that European solidarity is just a fairy tale doesn't stand. The report also suggests that Serbia is only moderately equipped in the area of public administration reform. Generally speaking, no progress has been made in this area. As far as Serbia's judicial system is concerned, a certain level of preparation has been achieved, but no progress has been made during the report period. The report also underlines that during the assembly debate an incendiary speech was used against political insinuators and representatives of other institutions expressing different political views. As for normalising relations with Kosovo, regardless of what we hear here, the dialogue has fallen into the deadlock, as Kosovo authorities do not have political will, the report underlines unfulfilled obligations by the Republic of Serbia stemming from previously signed agreements. In this context, as others have pointed out, further efforts are being made and contributes to a comprehensively binding agreement with Kosovo. The European Commission believes such an agreement is crucial and urgent, so that Kosovo and Serbia can progress on European roads. The question is, is that possible? These days we heard a statement by the president of the state, about his stance towards Kosovo, which will remain unchanged until April 2022. This probably means it's about the election that's going to take place that year. In my opinion, this is a statement by a politician who thinks of the next election, not a statement by a statesman who thinks of the next generation. Speaking of dialogue with Kosovo, the Republic of Serbia is burdened with avoiding the implementation of the following obligations: non-recognition of university diplomas; non-implementation of a cadaster agreement, resolution of elements related to the registration tables, and when it comes to IBM, Serbia is asked to constructively engage in resolving issues of transferred customs structures with Kosovo's administration from Serbia, and to stop issuing documents or stamping that are contrary to the agreement. It is said that the Republic of Serbia is not constructively engaged in the launch of the IBM crossings in Jarinj, Muchibabi and Končula, which has also led to the suspension of EU funds. The report requires Serbia to co-operate fully with the International... mechanisms for criminal tribunals and for full acceptance, enforcement of their verdicts and decisions. Serbia is criticised for continuing to give space to convicted war criminals and for allowing hate speech. The report requires Serbia to deal effectively with the legacy of the past, as well as true commitment to investigations and convictions in war crimes cases. Dear citizens, the EU membership process should not be seen as a simple harmonisation of the criteria, the key question is how we imagine Europe and coffee we want Europe. If we understand how we imagine the Balkans and Serbia, and what kind of Balkans and what kind of Serbia we want. We are witnessing today that there are also those in the EU who advocate Serbia's integration, but they themselves are essentially some anti-Europeans with regard to the values represented by the idea of Europe. Some of them advocate less democratic Europe, less social, less multiethnic, less multicultural, less multinational. They're in favour of xenophobic Europe, as authoritarian as possible. If you look closely, they're the best friends of President Vukic. Authors of all countries, unite within the European Union, primarily within the EU, but as voices are heard in the EU every day about the need to redefine democracy, constitutional reorganisation in the EU, Serbia is again late to repeat history. The government says the constitution needs to be changed to comply with EU criteria. That's it, that's it. So much, because, like his friends, President Vukic is engaged for less democratic Serbia, less social, less multiethnic, less multicultural, more authoritarian and more identical Serbia. That is why today's parliamentary debate on meeting the criteria of the Republic of Serbia in the EU is not an expression of the will of Europeanisation of government. It will be so when a European debate on the issues we want, what democracy we need as a country and as a region is launched in Serbia. As MPs, we may not know enough about the EU, but I don't think that this country's biggest problem. The biggest problem is that those who most know about the EU should do more. It's just a sentence, if you'll excuse me. When it comes to the collective rights of minorities, I will only quote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 75, which says that members of national minorities, in addition to the rights guaranteed by the Constitution to all citizens, are guaranteed additional, individual or collective rights. Individual rights are granted individually and collectively in the community with others in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the international treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2372	Thank you. Please, there's an advantage to the motionor's representative. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2373	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am as the author of the conclusions on the review of the European Commission's 2020 Report, and I have indeed waited for all the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups and then an independent MP, etc., so you will allow me to try to respond to several remarks in a few minutes and I will probably continue where the honourable previous speaker ended up. Since I wanted to go about it, I am really sorry to you now, because I am not sure, I think that when we had an interesting debate in the previous afternoon about the rights of the national minorities, then another colleague just got up and went out, didn't wait to finish, so I read the European Commission's report right here, so you probably missed it, but I, too, as a member of our case, of the Hungarian national minority, thought it important to point out, the Honorable Minister talked about something else and the Prime Minister, what is the situation regarding national minorities, even in some EU Member States where many just don't recognize themselves and we've heard a few examples here. As far as collective rights are concerned, I'd like to point out once again that we're not mixing institutions. There is an EU, there is a Council of Europe. It's often a lot of people mix it up, they don't know the difference. European Union, 27 member states, Council of Europe 47. We are here not the EU Council, but the Council of Europe, but we do not have time to clear this up now. But the Framework Convention is about the Council of Europe. So, uh...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2374	Well, you have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2375	Okay, you're very liberal today. Thank you. So Council of Europe, Framework Convention, Article 32 says – Minority rights are exercised as individual, as well as in the community with others. It is extremely important for us, minority members, that minority rights have an individual, social and collective dimension. A short time ago, the esteemed speaker quoted the Constitution, Article 75. He read attitude one, so I don't repeat it. Article 2 says – By way of collective rights, members of national minorities directly or through their representatives participate in the decision-making process or decide themselves on certain issues related to culture, education, notification, official use of language and letters in accordance with the law. We have to say that our current constitution has several very good members that concern exactly national minorities and positive discrimination against national minorities, but we also have a special law that has been criticised, amazingly, on national councils of national minorities and members of that law saying: "The National Council is an organisation entrusted with certain public powers by law to participate in decision-making or to decide independently on certain issues in the fields of culture, education, notification of official use of language and letter and in order to exercise the collective rights of national minorities in self-government in those areas," so that we know that our Constitution and the Law have collective rights. You didn't get along. I wanted to mention very briefly a few more things, since the prominent Prime Minister also mentioned Oliver Varhei, who is the Commissioner for Neighbouring Policy and Enlargement and who is indeed a great friend of Serbia and is really trying to make us feel and that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as far as possible, feel the concrete advantages of this process. I'll probably talk about it in more detail tomorrow. Peter Sijarto, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary, also a great friend, one of the few, as well as each time here, the respected Minister of European Integration Jadranka will agree, if everyone like Peter would say, if I can paraphrasise, that if Serbia is technically ready to open five negotiating chapters, then we should open five negotiating chapters to them. Positive messages I hear from him. I would also mention SVM President Istvan Pastor, who each time says that, unfortunately, the current picture, if we talk about the number of open negotiating chapters, is barely half. So that's 18 out of 35 and that doesn't even reflect the real situation that Serbia is actually prepared and ready to do. He repeated several times, and we all know it, there were other political opportunities and some political decisions, that, for example, Romania and Bulgaria were far below our preparedness today, at the moment they had already joined. I'll try to react to several previous speakers. Dear counterpart Djordje Milicevic mentioned the percentage of citizens' support for EU accession. The research is very similar, and the minister talked about it, but we need to clarify, indeed the largest support for the EU was, 11 years ago, at the end of 2009, at 74%, but precisely because they saw concrete news at the time. In December 2009, it began to apply the Schengen Agreement. Serbian citizens could finally travel without a visa. Today, different research shows support of about 50%, plus-minus a few percent. If I may mention one of the freshest. The Western Balkans during the pandemic, a survey conducted for the European Fund for the Balkans by the Ipsos Strategic Marketing Agency sometime in the autumn of this year, means, several months ago, on a representative sample of a thousand citizens, it says very positive that membership supports 64% of citizens, and EU membership does not support 27% of citizens, while 8.6% said it does not know. What's also interesting, the citizens are completely confused. When asked whether Serbia will join the EU in five years, 21.8% responds to the belief that Serbia will join the EU in five years, in ten years, 28.4%, and 10% thinks membership will take place over the next 20 years. The most polled, as many as 32%, which is for every concern, said Serbia will never become an EU member, and a certain percentage of them do not know or want to respond. I still think it's a job for all of us not to judge when those dates will come. Many asked me if it would be 2025, but to work on meeting these recommendations to make the process progress. Let me get this straight. The minister mentioned a conference on the future of Europe. Yes, we hope so, too, and we stressed at the last meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, where Ursula von der Lien attended and noted our presentation where we stressed that it is important that Serbia, that is, our parliament participates in the conference. After they rush me, it seems to me that the president gave me a sign, then I'll talk specifically about the conclusions, because formally, I just have to point out, we suggested, me and 14 colleagues of six conclusions. We've received three amendments to these conclusions. I'm sorry those critics haven't even submitted any amendments. As an authorised promoter, I must stress, I certainly accept these amendments that only improve and strengthen this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2376	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Gordana Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2377	Thank you. Three responses, two directly from the ministry's jurisdiction and related to future evaluations of the European Commission's report, one from its own experience. I don't think I'm going to exceed my jurisdiction if I talk about the constitution process. You mentioned war crimes, the atmosphere of war crimes, the behaviour of institutions, institutional discrimination, the media atmosphere and the behaviour of the social environment, the environment towards war crimes perpetrators, as well as unsolved war crimes, kidnapping and missing persons. I am also colleagues with Enisa Imamovic, and now I repeat to you the open invitation to address the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and the social dialogue with the proposal for a social dialogue that would run in your agenda, with the people you want to invite, to talk about, with recommendations, conclusions that you expect from dialogue, but to really talk about the topic in detail, and when it comes to war crimes that occurred in the recent past in Serbia's territory and in the territory of the entire former SFRY. I would be pleased to have such a long-standing dialogue, with the outcome and demand of the Civil Victims of War Act, but these are only my assumptions about how much we will work together to make such a dialogue on war crimes, on a difficult topic for every society. The second topic I'm responsible for is the remarks you've mostly quoted. The Council of Europe, the Committee of Ministers and individual bodies of the Council of Europe whose recommendations we are obliged to apply, as well as the recommendations of the European Commission Report, as well as the Framework Convention on the Rights of Minorities, as well as the measured situation for the position of national minorities in which to invest, starting with financing through representativeness, language, textbooks, culture, information space on public services. Here I will share with you a proposal, a comment, a comment, how will you, which is related to the first topic, with your view, as far as I'm concerned, that war crimes are a topic for every society, including our society, and that is why the position of national minorities in Vojvodina is better applied in law, better in general? You know, we're talking war crimes that were committed in Vojvodina during World War II in 1940, 1941, 1943, and then in 1945, after the liberation and collapse of fascism. We have visited together monuments where victims and criminals are and we are together with all the other victims and with all the confesions at events held in Novi Sad in January of the month, remembering the raids as one war crimes of the worst kind. At the same time in schools, we learned about MP Bajci Zilinski, who in the Hungarian Parliament during the raid, scheduled the Foreign Affairs Committee, wrote a declaration, asked to stop killing people on the streets - Serbs, Roma, Jews, all whom the then occupation army considered similar to the winding-up. That's what we're talking about. If we want there to be an application everywhere of the National Minorities Act, as is the case in Vojvodina, as mentioned in the reports of the Council of Europe, then we all have a ready-made recipe together. There is talk, there is dialogue, not in the desire to win over one another, but to win together what is difficult and what is evil from the common past. No one says the process is easy. I am telling you that is why the European Commission report's assessment that the state of application of the National Minorities Act in Vojvodina is better than the entire territory of Serbia, and there is no better motive for me than to make Vojvodina of all of Serbia. I know what some will think about this sentence, but I'm talking about the spirit that people live together and who stay in their views, talk to each other about the problem. That path will be as long as people won't give up beating the other one and agreeing to conquer the evils of the past they've shared together. And lastly, I say, on the verge of jurisdiction, the topic is that Serbia will change the Constitution and that Serbia will change its mouth because it is wanted by the EU. I speak on the verge of jurisdiction, but since I've been dealing with the subject of the Constitution and since I'm going to deal with the future constitution from the point of view and with the criteria of human rights, because the rights achieved cannot be reduced, I'm going to share with you just three facts that you can verify. For the change of the Constitution, as imagined, this National Assembly is primarily waiting for you to do a serious job defining procedures, procedures and protocols, since in existing assembly documents, including the Rules of Procedure, it is much more for interpretation than it is for direct application. I'd like that job to be between the government and the Assembly, not at the expense of the Parliament's authority. The government must not interfere with the content of the future Constitution, either in procedures or in protocols. It is the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Assembly. I am not talking about it, but because of your completely correct position that Serbian citizens should decide on it, and in order for Serbian citizens to participate you need the resources of the government, as executive authorities, and the resources of the Assembly, as someone who can gather citizens, because here we agree that citizens should know what the essence of the future text of the Constitution we want to have, whose will we are looking forward to, is to make development in Serbia. In the end, I would be truly pleased that, not only you and civil society that deals and the rights of minorities, apart from national councils, deal with war crimes, address the ministry and talk about it and agreeing to be a permanent dialogue of a particular kind, independent of what kind of dialogue MPs and the National Assembly will be, because I think it is the only way to measure together where all Serbia is changed for the better in one year, watching the European Commission report, either in five years or in 10 years. All the other political rhetoric, the creative interpretation of facts, all the things that we politicians do in the congregations, in governments, it's all legitimate and legal until we cross the line that threatens the facts that we've measured together and the arrangements that we've made in the dialogue together. It's a recipe for how successful EU societies work. I don't see any reason why he won't be with you, Mr. Cambery, with me in Serbia, with others who want to participate in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2378	Thank you, Minister. (Alexander Martinovic: I am reporting as president of the parliamentary group. ) As president of the parliamentary group, the word is Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2379	I thank you, Mr. Dacic. What Mr. Kamberi can do in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the middle of Belgrade, to say that Aleksandar Vukic is a tyrant, that he is a despot, is just saying that Serbia is a democratic state and is not what Mr. Kamberi represents. I have a message for you, Mr. Cambery, but really well-intentioned. Don't look in Serbia at an ex-SFRJ that's not good, but it's good when something needs to be taken from it. Now Serbia is in a position of former SFRY -- it's bad, but it's good, it's good when we have to take Sandzak away from her, it's good when we have to take KIM away from her, it's good when we have to take south Serbia. Don't approach the Republic of Serbia like that. Serbia must be your country, too. I would ask you, as you can see, in the Serbian Parliament to say anything about Alexander Vukic, and you know that what you said is not true and nothing bad will happen to you. I would ask, since I believe that you have an influence on your friends in Pristina, that as we tolerate you, at least one part treats the Serbs living on KIM, especially Serbs living in enclaves. Let me remind you, Mr. Cambery, today are the Serb enclaves on KIM, unfortunately both you and us, the latest examples of concentration camps in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2380	Thank you. Since Shaip Kamberi is entitled to a replica, and Ministers Selakovic and Joksimovic also reported, do you agree to give the first word to the ministers, so that you can respond in the end, so that we can shorten the time a little bit? (Shaip Kamberi: I agree. I thank you. Mr. Selakovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2381	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be as brief as possible. In the morning part of the session, Ms Kovac even spoke about concrete things, when it comes to the Albanian national minority, saying, what more, about school programmes, registered textbooks, about everything that has been done, and I had to answer and respond to several sentences that have been made, and indeed, in the mildest form, do not respond to the truth. So, to say, literally, that Aleksandar Vukic advocates Serbia which is less democratic, less multiethnic, less multicultural, and more authoritarian, it is an absolute untruth. I'll give you a concrete example. You know, when that example is given and the sentence they are constantly calling for, it says -- you know, when you look at Serbia, it's a much better position and attitude towards national minorities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina than in the rest of Serbia. These are processes and these are relationships that depend on at least two sides. Where did you see this municipality in our northern province, where members of national minorities live, whose political parties win over half the majority of the council, and then form power in a way that no single Serb party should enter the majority? You have not seen this anywhere in the territory of the AP Vojvodina where Serbs are the majority people, as they are in central Serbia, but you could see this example in Bujanovac. Local government was established in Bujanovac so that two Serbian parties who have won parliamentary seats, the SNS list, the SPS list, did not go into power because someone from the leadership, the political leadership of those Albanian parties tried to blackmail the president in the process of forming a new government. I'm sorry, that's not how you talk. President Vukic was already talking about it and he was talking, I think, here in front of you about it. What Ms. Comic's esteemed colleague was talking about is dialogue, which means we should sit down and talk. Just before I talked about maternity and hospital in Pasyan, so is the maternity home in Presevo, and when? At a time when Alexander Vukic was the Prime Minister. Then you come and say here -- you know, it's a man who stands for Serbia who is less democratic. In what less democratic? Could he, as leader of the largest political party, have evicted representatives of national minorities from forming government? No, that's what these parties I said and that I listed in Bujanovac did. Then one question arises – who here behaves less democratically, less multiethnically, less multiculturally? I think we should really talk about everything, that we should all respect our country. That means we respect her laws, that means we pay taxes, that means we pay electricity, that means that those rights that make it possible for us to use them. You know, to throw poison arrows and call out those who are always open to dialogue, but never to blackmail, who are always open to serious partnership, and not to planting, I don't think it's right. And, what Mr. Martinovic said, I absolutely agree. So, the fact that they can be elected, that they have and enjoy absolute freedom of speech, democratic political action and here in the highest representative home of the Republic of Serbia, members of national minorities, and also Albanian national minorities, is something we are proud of, is something that is in the spirit of the best Western European political practice. We follow that, so we will continue to work, and on our side as a state, government, there is always an open opportunity to talk, to solve problems, and to the satisfaction not only of us who deal with politics, but of the citizens who are supposed to live here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2382	Thank you. Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2383	Thank you, Mr. President. So, Mr. Cambery, you said a few things and your freedom of speech and your participation denied yourself. It's a good thing you could say anything you thought. You even said something that's really, kind of like, you know, I don't even know how to comment, but you'll understand the message. You say – all of Vucic's friends are doing and thinking the opposite of what you think is the democratic potential of society. It doesn't matter what Vučić's friends and my Selakovics and yours say, but what the state does and how the state behaves. Whether Vucic, which I do not like to keep taking into his mouth and I call on either the President or the Prime Minister, but when you have already so attacked the president directly, if anyone has shown that everything he says, does and does, it is that democratic, all democratic citizens in this country join together, and not only in this country, but through the initiative "mini Schengen" and in the region, that everyone joins on democratic grounds and for the prosperity of all and every citizen. Now, the problem is that the democratic integration of citizens through the "small Schengen" and through this policy of really dialogue, internal dialogue and co-operation that we have, the problem is that the promoter is Vucic, and it doesn't really belong to him, because those who think it belongs to them cannot accept that Vucic, SNS and this Government are doing it, but it's not the right thinking. It's right that from what this country is doing, you're pulling out what's best for yourself. I'd always be so a member of the national minority and party, I'd always take what's best for me. I think that the intentions are absolutely proven best and your participation here shows that democracy exists and that democracy can only increase and be more representatives from all other national minorities, which is, of course, part of the democratic electoral process. Only one thing that was said here, and Mrs. Kovac mentioned it, I think there's been one confusion about what I said about collective national rights. I repeat, collective national rights do not exist as a category in either the Framework Convention on Minority Rights, nor is it a European value. There is an individual and collective enjoyment of rights. So that's the difference. Individual rights shall be exercised individually and collective rights in the community with others in accordance with the Constitution, law and international agreements. So it's just to define that no one here has invented that some of the collective rights have been abolished. Collective rights are a way of achieving and improving the position of national minorities, but not as collective national rights, but as a way of achieving them. I just wanted to clarify that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2384	Thank you. Ambassador Cambery is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2385	It should take me six minutes to have it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2386	Here's to four.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2387	Three. I've had enough. Okay, first of all, I will refer to what Minister Joksimovic last said - my participation here is proof of democracy. My participation here is proof of participation in the elections held in this country and my party's participation in these elections. Democracy in Serbia has not given me a mandate. This mandate belongs to me because I was voted by my countrymen, or voters. So it's not some level of donated rights that the state so generously gives to minorities. If freedom, democracy in one country, is a criterion for it to be a criterion, or a criterion for it to be the freedom of the MP to speak freely in parliament, I think we are in a serious problem, a serious problem of democracy, gentlemen. It is constantly pointed out that here is the MP who has the right to speak. Why don't I have a right? What member of this Constitution forbids any party, any minority or majority people, to plead freely? Is that the democracy the SNS gives? You don't give me anything. I took part in the elections, got this mandate, and I represent the citizens who chose me. As for the Bujanovac municipality, Mr. Minister, I think you're twisting the subject. I think we need more time to talk about this. You forgot to mention the Medvedje municipality where Albanians were totally expelled from local self-government. I don't think you've worked enough for Serbs in Bujanovac when they were 18 years part of local self-government. Just to remind you of one fact. A few days ago, your tabloids crucified me on the cross, because I allegedly never stopped at Nais, stopped at Nais to negotiate, quote - Tonchev's fraud about including the SPS in power. So it's not up to you Serbs, it's up to the SNS in Bujanovac. Why don't you say it out loud? Then say it openly. In my speech, I quoted what the European Commission report is saying about the Eurointegration process, and I tried to quote it. I can't say which side, because we got a report without pages here, so I can't concentrate. I can't count all sides, but what I've listed is here on every question. My political comments regarding the political situation are my right and I want to use it here. Whether it's a minority or a majority, it's my basic right as a MP and I'll say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2388	Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2389	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. No matter how much you try to heat up the atmosphere in parliament, I must say that you and I agree more than we agree. We fully agree that you have the full right to say whatever you want in the National Assembly and no one gives you that right. It is the right that is guaranteed to you by the Constitution. What I want to thank you for is for saying that, I think you said, that Alexander Vukic failed to fulfil his responsibilities when it comes to diplomas with KIM, when it comes to land books, cadastres, etc. And all the opposite of you are spoken by our political opponents here in Belgrade, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. They say we gave everything, that we gave both the university and the country and the Elektroprivreda and the Gaza Strip, etc. I thank you for this because when you draw a line below what you have said and below what you say every day and every day, those who actually sold everything to KIM what is Serbian, such as Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, when under all your speeches you draw a line then you get one simple conclusion – that Aleksandar Vukic is actually in the best way possible to advocate the state interests of Serbia and the rights of the Serb people at KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2390	Thank you. I just wanted to ask Milan Savic – on what basis are you answering? (Milan Savic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 107) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2391	I thank the chairman. I would just refer to the previous speaker, the head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Martinovic, who asked Mr. Camberi to ask his colleagues and friends in Pristina for all the rights and democracy he enjoys as a representative of the national minority here in the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we as SNS are absolutely proud of all the rights that he, as a representative of a national minority, has in our country precisely because the same rights his fellow countrymen do not prohibit our people in KIM, I will remind you that freedom of speech for Serbs in KIM means absolutely going to prison. For example, I will remind you of the president of the municipality of Zvecan, Mr. Ivan Todosijevic, who when he said that in Račka police forces and security forces from the Republic of Serbia killed terrorists convicted by Pristina authorities, who were convicted by so-called. independent courts, although there's nothing independent of the state, and then everything else, and he got a two-year sentence for a verbal delinquent. I ask Mr. Camberi - what would happen to Serbs in Pristina, Serbian representatives in Pristina if they spoke as he says today?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2392	Mr. Saviæ, let me tell you one thing. I gave you my word even though you called half an hour ago and I'd beg you not to go to the polemics. If you have not already felt the need to give up after the speech of the president of the parliamentary group, etc. If you want us to rekindle the controversy with Mr. Camber, it's obviously not in the spirit of the session we were going to have. So you asked a question, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because now Shaip Cambery is answering for a replica. There's no replica theme here with Cambery. The topic is the report, which is our position on what the EU has said. I'm asking you all to focus on that. Everything is measured according to the results. Our result is to adopt these conclusions. Please let's focus on that accordingly. I want to remind you that all four speakers have finished their presentation on the list, and you can judge whether it's effective or not. Are you asking us to plead? (Milan Savic: No. Thank you. (Shaip Kamberi: Replica. I don't think you have the right to a replica on the part of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Honey Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2393	Thank you, Mr. President. For the sake of the truth and the public, I want to say this. As members of the Committee on European Integration, we had indeed one constructive discussion at the 4th session of our Committee, and there were representatives of the EU delegation in Belgrade and the head of the delegation, Ambassador Fabrica. I must say that there is indeed one and the same rhetoric in the part of the MPs of the national minorities. I now have a simple dilemma, for the sake of truth and the public – was that speech already prepared in advance, did he have to say some kind of "massage boxing" in order to defy all that was done and done during this previous reporting period, from June 2019 to October 2020? Also, part of the opposition MPs spoke on the Committee of Resorships all the time – and it did not suit them that the report arrived at the National Assembly, which is being discussed on the Committee of Resorship, had not had enough time since 6 October, since the report was handed to Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, they did not have time to read the Report and the extensive literature on 140 pages, after which they brought out the really unfounded criticisms. I understand that absolutely all MPs, whether they are a position or opposition, have their rights guaranteed by the Constitution and by law and can either vote or not to vote, to come or not to come to the session, to engage in the debate or not to engage in the debate, to submit amendments or not to submit amendments, but to bring criticism for criticism, without offering some adequate solutions, what are we going to do in the process of European integration. To tell you the truth, as someone who has been in this Committee for six years and who is one of the 15 MPs who are the signatories of the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress in 2020, I can indeed say responsibly that the previous speaker has absolutely not read the Report on Serbia's progress, nor has he been involved in a genuine debate on the adoption of these laws. If he had read it, then he would have seen how, in an affirmative and positive way, the basic rights of national minorities were declared and are an integral part of this text of the European Commission. My colleague Kovac talked about it, and I want it to get into the rock logs from today's session. The report on the European Commission's progress on Serbia for 2020 says that "the legal framework for respect and protection of minorities and cultural rights has been widely established and generally has support, in line with the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe for the Protection of National Minorities". It is also said that the Fund for National Minorities continues to be increased, to invest significant financial resources in protecting the rights of national minorities. As far as the Albanian national minority is concerned, a catalogue of the most common Albanian names and last names has been made, in order to allow for the exact introduction of such names into the parent books, that we do not have those abuses that we had in previous years and in previous decades, and when it comes to the list and when it comes to the extraction of ID cards and when it comes to burning documents. According to the report, local advice on international relations has been established in each of the 73 municipalities where such obligations are prescribed by law. So we're working on democratic principles, we're working on respect for the rights, the rule of law in our country, we're working on protecting national minorities. In Chapter 23, which includes protecting the rights of national minorities, Serbia’s progress in the European integration process has indeed been assessed in a positive way, and I ask you to simply enter it as a message from today’s session. No one has argued that he has no right to speak. Because we had a constructive discussion, again, on the Committee on European Integration, he talked about it, everyone was absolutely invited to join the debate. It is important that for the first time in the history of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are having a discussion on such an important topic as the topic of European integration and Serbia's progress on our European path. He spoke of these two archbishops, as read in this report and how reforms were made in the judiciary, and he did not say that the National Assembly, that all MPs of the National Assembly were on 4 December 2020, the Government was on the basis of Article 203 of Title 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, referred to the regular assembly procedure of the National Assembly for the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So December 4th. Many things from this reporting period have already been changed since the reporting period, and this will be an integral part of some of the next reports and some of the next assessments on Serbia's progress in the European integration process, and when it comes to amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and the Law on VAT and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, but also when it comes to amending the Constitution. So let's do the essentials. It was simply that the speech and the key messages were seen to be written to the previous speaker by someone else, and that today he was supposed to just read it, not really get involved in this debate. I would like to say this - that the role of the National Assembly in the process of European integration is really important, that besides the negotiating team, in addition to the main negotiator in the Republic of Serbia, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia really plays a significant role. In fact, 68% of Serbian citizens believe that reforms are necessary for Serbia's entry into the EU, but that it is necessary to implement them beyond the EU. And that's what obliges us to sit here today and work here with commitment, to encourage the efforts of this new government, that's the government of continuity, the government of reform processes, and in the next period. It is also very important for us to reach a consensus and agree on some common denominators, some common principles, so that Serbia continues to go through reforms and progress. We talked about different things here. I would like to say that the character of the process of Serbia's European integration as a accession country is such that unlike many candidate countries in the environment, Serbia has included in the process itself and the National Convention, which is gathered in working groups and which is really active with us as MPs, members of the Committee on European Integration, participates in the dialogue of European integration, participates in the preparation of negotiating positions before returning them from the National Assembly to the Government of Serbia. They are present at committee meetings where we discuss a summary of the negotiating positions, give their recommendations, give their opinion. Recently, we also held a session of the National Convention where people really had opportunities, people experts, people from civil society, from NGOs, gathered within the framework of the European Movement in Serbia, had the opportunity to present a critical opinion on the speed and dynamics of the European integration process. It's very important, but that's what many candidate countries don't have at the moment, nor have they had before us. I would also like to say that the position of the National Assembly and the role of the National Assembly is defined by the Resolution on the role of the National Assembly, the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, which was adopted in 2013, but also through co-operation with the European Parliament. In this conference, members of the Committee on European Integration really had one close co-operation, close co-operation, daily co-operation and communication with both the European Parliament and the working bodies of the European Parliament. Secondly, as MPs, we do participate in a number of conferences. At this point because the pandemic of the coronary virus we have online sessions and online inclusion through numerous applications. During the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union, my smallness and chairman of the Committee on European Integration, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Elvira Kovac, had the opportunity to take part in the conference of the Committee on European Affairs of All Parliaments, full members of the European Union to which the candidate countries were invited. Also, there is a format for KOSAP meeting where partners and parliaments from the Western Balkans region are located. So we really take care of it, we read the reports carefully, everything that applies, for example. to the role of the National Assembly in the process of European integration, we are really trying to read carefully, to see these criticisms and to remove and to move towards a better developed democracy. On Saturday, we had a session, where we discussed reports from independent institutions, the Citizens' Protector, the DRI, a report from the Commissioner for Gender Equality, the Commissioner for Public Information. Recently, at one of the previous sessions, as MPs, we also adopted the Code of Conduct of Members of the People. It is about that document, which was started in 2014 under the auspices of the OSCE organisation, but part of the opposition in that meeting in 2014. – In 2016 he refused when we came to some draft text of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, he refused to participate further because he felt he did not want to give a positive signal or a positive attitude to be such an important document and adopted. We also have the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association and indeed between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia, which comprises of 15 MEPs and the National Assembly of Serbia meetings of the POPA are indeed held twice a year and alternately in Strasbourg, either in Belgrade. This year's report undoubtedly says Serbia is sincerely committed to further and deeper reforms with which it approaches in one responsible way. And that is why I am putting on an accent, and that is why I think it is important that we invite all MPs and positions and opposition to support the conclusions, to engage in the debate on the amendments that some of the MPs have sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that indeed the generations that are standing in this country have a more certain future, so that the generations that are standing in this country really believe in all the reform processes that are currently taking place. The proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission's 2020 report on Serbia shows some kind of direction, where we are presently, and where we want as a society and to go. Of course, no document is simply a sacred letter on paper and we can work on it in the future. The year 2020 is the year of new momentum in the relations between the European Union and Serbia, as well as the entire Western Balkans. The European Union companies are really convincingly our biggest investor with 65% of total direct foreign investment, while the European Union's share in the total trade in the region amounted to over 69% in 2019. The recently adopted Economic Investment Plan for the Western Balkans is a truly strong incentive and support for the entire Western Balkans region. Ten investment priorities have been identified and really taken into account and there is indeed one strong support from our European partners to speed up the green and digital transition of the entire region, to further connect the region, because it is a region that cannot be underestimated in any way. It's a region with 18 million citizens, 18 million consumers. Serbia is on track today and after, I would say 15 years of failing and seeking itself during the previous regime and those missed opportunities in the European integration process, we have indeed managed to return to the right track and to the difficult measures and reforms that we have implemented in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2394	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Dusici Stojkovic, deputy chairman of the Committee on European Integration. The word now has the Vice-President of the Assembly, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2395	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, the President-in-Office, I am pleased that today, in front of the JS parliamentary group, we can discuss such an important conclusion and which was proposed by the Committee on European Integration. I think it may be one of the most important conclusions found in the congregation procedure. All the problems caused by the pandemic have affected the functioning of state institutions, and hence some last year's recommendations. A report by the European Commission shows moderate criticism in some parts, but notes that Serbia is prepared in the area of public administration reform, the judicial system and in the field of fighting organised crime. Many times in this high-school, JS has pointed out how important public administration reform is, as it may best show the state's attitude towards citizens and for the JS it should be tailored and in the service of citizens. It happened a lot through the e-Government project, and we saw how much it meant to the citizens and to the institutions at the time when it was limited work because of the pandemic, when we all went online. That's why the process of work didn't stop. Otherwise, public administration reform is one of three key conditions for Serbia's EU accession. The commission's report found that Serbia has made some progress in fighting organised crime, Serbia has defined its objectives and action plans in the fight against organised crime and in favour of our country's co-operation with EVROJAST, and we adopted the agreement last year in the assembly. We have further strengthened our capacity in this struggle. When we look through the judiciary, special courts dealing with this topic are open in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis and Kralje, and their work is good and has been assessed as good in the last two years, over 1,500 people charged. When I touched the judiciary and I am glad that Mr Selakovic, the former justice minister, has led to a major delay in court proceedings. We need to continue our efforts to reduce the number of old executive cases and bring court practice into line. I mean, it's absurd for citizens to wait two decades to complete the trial. As far as legislation is concerned, an institutional framework for the protection of fundamental human rights and their security and at the last session of the Assembly has been established and we have had a report by the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for Gender Equality, as well as a report by the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, and this speaks of the engagement of our country to make human rights a priority and that every citizen is important regardless of nationality. We had today during the session of controversy over the rights of national minorities, but it is this home where we see that colleagues who are members of national minorities are respected as vice presidents of the National Assembly and through the work of the Assembly Committee on Human and Minority Rights. I would like to commend Minister Goce Comic's invitation to colleagues who are representatives of minorities, to engage in social dialogue and to contribute to a better position with their constructive proposals. But I also think that we may need to ask ourselves what the rights of Serbs representing national minorities in the surrounding countries are, whether Europe is dealing with it. Not to go into it every day, we hear about attacks on Serbs living in our southern province, up to what the position of Serbs in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in brother Montenegro. So, in place is the question asked today by the president of JS - who should we address? As Minister Joksimovic said today, that many modern European countries do not have national minorities, I believe our country has done much about the rights of national minorities. The commission's report praised Serbia's commitment to regional co-operation. It should continue negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina, and you have told Mr Selakovic that there is nothing to resent our side about the Brussels Agreement, which we cannot say for the other side, because we are still waiting for the formation of a community of Serb municipalities that represents the key to the survival of our people at KIM. There must be no double arches in the EU. We will follow the trial in The Hague, Mr. War Crimes, Thaci and the team, because so far we have seen what the court's relationship with the Serbs was, and what to the Croats, too, should not have double arches. That Serbia wants good co-operation with the surrounding countries tells the adoption of an agreement with Albania and Northern Macedonia where it can only go with a personal map, leading to greater openness and the possibility of citizens travelling easier and better among regional co-operation. I'm sorry I don't have time anymore, because it's such a wide subject. Unique Serbia will support the conclusion proposed by the Committee on European Integration and I thank you in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2396	I would like to thank the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (The Chairman announces Master Akoš Ujhelji, in native language, and then in Serbian. The word has a master's degree, Akos Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2397	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group will support the proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission's report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020, because we believe that EU membership is our country's most important priority. Our parliamentary group welcomes the decision that the European Commission's report is on the agenda, because EU accession is a process in which not only the state participates, but society as a whole, and therefore it is important that, in addition to the state administration responsible for implementing reforms, the process is understood and included in Serbia's citizens. Understanding the process increases the support and active participation of citizens, which inevitably leads to better strategic decisions. Today, we are not only having a discussion on the European Commission's report, but also on how we want Serbia to look at the end of the negotiation process, and that is what we are all asking ourselves. That is why we need to take all steps to ensure that as responsible citizens at the end of the negotiations, we can safely say that we are ready for Serbia to be a full member of the EU. Serbia is showing commitment to European integration in all the difficulties that exist in both the EU and the region, it is committed to overcoming the burden of the past and implementing internal reforms, which most says that the recently adopted budget of the Republic of Serbia fully corresponds to the Mastric Treaty or these contracts in the EU, which translates into numbers, means that in addition to the planned increase in the gross social product of 6%, the fiscal deficit of the Republic of Serbia will be 3%, and the public debt of the general state will be below 60% and will be 58%. To meet the requirements for EU membership, more items divided into 35 negotiating chapters need to be met, but what concerns the rule of law is most important for the right. So far, 18 chapters have been opened and, for example, Chapter 5 of public procurement, the end of EU accession negotiations for business entities in Serbia allows access to public procurement in the EU according to EU rules and under conditions equally favourable to the conditions applied to economic operators in the EU. Chapter 6 of the right of economic operators, the harmonisation of legislation with EU law in the area of company law, creates, among other things, business conditions that will allow domestic economic operators to compete and equal treatment on the EU market, the date of Serbia's accession, and two new forms of business companies, the European-action society and the European-economic association, which exist in EU Member States. The introduction of new forms of companies will allow all economic operators to achieve the advantages that these two supranational forms of society allow in cross-border economic activity. Chapter 7, intellectual property, closing chapters will allow for improvement of the subject, goods and services, as well as the acceleration of technological development and stimulation of creation. The protection of intellectual property is equally important for both small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for individual creators, who will be protected in this way, and intellectual property will be treated as any other kind of property. Chapter 13, fisheries, conditions will be created for the marketing of EU fisheries products, with the preservation of national water resources. A legal basis for the introduction of catch certificates will also be established. Also, after EU accession, incentives will also be provided to preserve and improve ponds, as well as innovation in the area of aqua culture. Chapter 17, economic and monetary policy. Member States have an obligation to lead fiscal policy in accordance with the rules and principles applicable to the EU. Chapter 20, entrepreneurship and industrial policy. Under the negotiations, candidate countries are required to present industry policy, restructuring strategy, to assess whether their industrial policies are in line with EU principles, particularly in terms of privatisation and restructuring. Chapter 23, Justice and Fundamental Rights. This chapter has four basic acts: judicial reform, the fight against corruption, fundamental rights and the rights of EU citizens. The reform of the judiciary includes the need to make it independent, impartial, efficient, responsible and professional. Basic rights include an entire spectrum of protection of human and minority rights. EU citizens' rights also relate to the takeover of EU legal fluids that are regulated to vote and run for elections for the European Parliament, as well as local elections within the EU. In this area, the right to free movement and residence within the EU is also defined. To meet the conditions set out in this chapter, Serbia needs to implement a number of reforms and activities that have a direct impact on the everyday lives of citizens. The EU countries, which place special emphasis on the rule of law, are particularly concerned with the harmonisation of legislation. Serbia needs more commitment to apply obligations. Chapters 23, 24, 35 are evident to define the dynamics of the negotiations. As is known, unfortunately, no green light has been given all year to open any chapter in Serbia's EU accession negotiations, although Serbia has delivered negotiating positions for as many as five chapters, and the EU Council of Ministers has urged Serbia to significantly step up reform efforts in the area of the rule of law, in particular to ensure independence and overall efficiency of the judicial system. In addition to insufficient evaluations in the rule of law segment, Serbia does not go hand in hand with current circumstances in the EU, as it dominates the view that the necessary internal consolidation is, above all, the successful end of BREGZIT, strong economic growth and the successful control of the migrant crisis, as well as the crisis caused by the pandemic. Serbia is advised not to sit down and not waste extra time, but to implement the commitments undertaken in practice. It is necessary that the EU is co-operated as partners and that we fulfil our share of obligations, as well as that we receive EU support in this. When we look at the European Commission's report, we can say that Serbia's current state of preparation is not bad, but progress must continue to be made to bring the EU's legal flows into line, in all chapters, and that the provisions for the temporary closure of chapters are met. Six Western Balkan countries should definitely be admitted to the EU to increase the Union's influence in the region. The essence of the negotiation process is not only in the opening of chapters, progress on the road to EU membership is measured by the degree of readiness to assume commitments, which are derived from this membership. Legal success can only be seen as meeting the necessary conditions for closing chapters, as this means that Serbia is really ready to take over all its obligations in full capacity. We believe that it is necessary to significantly improve public information on the necessary reforms regarding European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2398	(He speaks Hungarian. I thank you. The President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2399	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, co-worker and fellow MPs, I think it is very good to talk tonight about the European Commission's report in the Republic of Serbia for 2020. In fact, this is an opportunity for the wider public to learn more about the assessments that the European Commission is giving about Serbia, and about what Serbia is doing to become an EU member, and what some possible obstacles are along the way, and how the European Commission is assessing our work so far. I must say, personally, that as a member of the SPS parliamentary group, I must say that I am pleased with what I heard today from the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also essentially with what is in this report. Why? He gives me direct and indirect answers to many questions about Serbia's accession to EU membership. Today, we heard from the president of the Committee on European Integration at what level, with what estimates the European Commission is giving, showing Serbia's contribution to individual chapters, and we know that the process will take a long time. This is what I am saying from the context of the fact that the European perspective of the Balkans space was launched in Thessaloniki in 2003, that now in 2020, that in 2014, we started negotiations, that 18 chapters were open. I am glad that five chapters are ready to open, that two are temporarily closed, but we all need to know that everything we do in the EU accession process is not just up to us. In fact, the EU makes it a community of 27 different countries by many things and within these 27 countries there are different kinds of interests that can reflect on the European path of each country. Here, look at what's happened now with Northern Macedonia, they've done everything, but everything they've been asked to do, so they've experienced that the negotiations haven't started, but that's their problem and their fate. What interests me is the Republic of Serbia. I must say that I am glad that our country, compared to what it does on the road to EU accession, solves what is most important, the issue of the development of the Republic of Serbia and the issue of problems faced by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and show the ability to solve the problems it faces. The biggest problem this year was Kovid-19 and Serbia, of course, did this basic task, if I may say, because I hope with the beginning of the vaccination of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia we are at the end of this road which Kovid began in March of last year. Besides, we've opened two hospitals. The highways are being built, they're opening up new factories for us. The very fact, as the president seems to me, Vukic told me 2.9 billion euros... and investment, invested in Serbia, says what foreigners think of the Republic of Serbia. Public debt has grown at least from all European countries, at least the growth rate has dropped. It's all to say homework. And why am I bringing this up? I mention, above all, because of the content of certain parts of this report, and I am glad that there is a Foreign Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia tonight, Mr Nikola Selakovic, because I actually wanted to talk about the part concerning the foreign and security policy of the Republic of Serbia. We have seen in this report that it is said that Serbia has agreed with 60% of those documents that EU foreign policy officials promote as part of EU activity in the area. It's a percentage of the consistency that I think is quite decent. It should be recalled that there were years when it was even bigger, such as in 2015, but there were years when it was much smaller in 2017, when it was 46.51%. Why do I mention this is a very decent percentage of Serbia's policy coherence with the EU's foreign and security policy. Because the rest of this document shows that we have done almost everything, that we have adopted national strategies documents, that we support the EU's measures and document in preventing conflict, that we have joined all non-proliferation agreements, that we are working with international organisations, that NATO has the highest level of co-operation that one country, which is not a NATO member, has, that we are participating in military exercises with the Senates and the US and others, that we are participating in EU crisis management missions, that we are participating in UN peacekeeping missions. And when you look at that, then you see that our activity is very large, and let me say, we're very active, but in what bush lies the rabbit? In my opinion, I think that we are unearthly getting criticism about co-operation with the Russian Federation and the NKK, and I think that some of the tones that come from the EU are not genuine and with some kind of demeaning is talking about our co-operation. In fact, this year I was able to read twice from Mr Lajcak as a special rapporteur from European Commissioner von der Lian that she said that the Balkans is the EU, not a silk road station. I don't think that's correct. We are an independent country, working with the NRC, with the Russian Federation, we have our own interests, and it would be logical for these countries to take our interests into account. Why am I saying this? Lajcak has repeatedly mentioned that we, as MPs and other public figures dealing with politics, have an obligation to publicly say what the EU is doing to support Serbia or to help Serbia. In this report, there are data that, I think, best confirms our level of co-operation with the EU. The minister mentioned 68% of exports. Serbia together with the EU is 63%, with the Russian Federation 7%, with China 6%, with BiH 5%, with CEFTA countries 16%. So, when you see it, then you see it, then you see that it is the biggest trade exchange with EU countries. Then what could be the problem? That's the problem, to be honest, I can't see. Because there is one logical question, is Serbia's co-operation with the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation good for Serbia? Yeah. It is good for Serbia because it also gives us the opportunity from the point of view of the Russian Federation and the NKK to realise certain projects and to create new jobs, to raise living standards. Here, these days, the best news that could be heard is that the Turkish flow has begun to work, the natural gas from the Russian Federation through Turkey and Bulgaria is arriving in our country, which is good for the economy and for the citizens, not to mention this political dimension that is very important for these assessments, which is the support we have in the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China in the Security Council. You know how when a question comes to the UN Security Council, then those two countries are wondering, and then it's very important that Serbia as an objectively small country in world terms has two big and powerful friends who support its views. Remember, they were also for the establishment of a court for the trial of crimes committed by KLA members in Kosovo, they were against reducing the number of meetings of the General Assembly... The Security Council, when it comes to Kosovo's consideration, criticise UNMIK's behaviour, criticise the behaviour and non-implementation of Kosovo's behaviour regarding the Brussels process, criticise all the things that are, I say, part of our problems in the Balkans and Serbia is facing. So, is Serbia's co-operation with China, the Russian Federation good for Serbia? Yeah. Is this co-operation a threat to the EU? Of course not. Because when you see 7% and 6%, compared to 63%, that's four, five times less. Then one logical question arises - then what's the problem? You know, it's no problem when Chinese companies buy two symbols of Swedish, Volvo and Saab in 2010, then that's fine. It is not a problem when Chinese companies participate and buy shares of public enterprises in the energy field of individual EU members, it is not a problem. It is not a problem when they invest in their economy, and for a small Serbia, the problem is to buy Jellyzar Smederevo or Mining-Topier Basen Bor, or to open a factory. I don't think the EU is honest with us until the end, because this is not about that economic dimension, this is about the geopolitical dimension. In fact, I am fully convinced that this statement also says that the Balkans are part of the EU, not a station on the Silk Road, talking about the EU's intentions to be a geopolitical factor and to circle the Balkans' space and to represent for the EU or at least for individual countries within the EU a grey area that is not under control. The third dimension of that relationship is when I asked if we were benefiting. Yeah. Is co-operation with these countries an EU threat? No, I don't. Then I have a third question or answer to that question – what is the problem? I think the only kind of problem that's the problem for them, and not for us is that we're autonomous, we make our own decisions. Both China and the Russian Federation appear as alternative in this case, if they can use the word "players" in the Balkans, and we know that we already have relations with Russia for almost two centuries, I am talking about diplomatic, and the People's Republic of China is our strategic partner, as well as the Russian Federation. Both countries are our strategic partners and I really don't see any reason to give reviews of our co-operation with the People's Republic of China. I'm glad the Minister of Eurointegration is here. I don't think it's correct that this report estimates that Serbian representatives were glorifying the support and assistance they received from China at the time of the pandemic. It is not correct because it is not fair to Serbia. I'll remind you that WHO declared the pandemic on 11 March. The European Union closed its external borders on 17 March. Our first aid came in from China on March 21st, so I checked last night. It should not be forgotten that the EU then made another important negative decision for us, which is that non-EU countries will not have the opportunity to obtain medical equipment from the EU, and then, to be fair, because of the criticisms that have come from the EU itself, but also because of the letters sent by foreign ministers from the Balkan countries, the decision has been changed, so we have the opportunity to obtain equipment. If President Vukic expressed his gratitude to the Chinese people and to President Si Gjiping, he did so for a reason, because, you know, March 21st, six days since the introduction of the emergency situation in our country, in a situation where the pandemic began to harass the space of Europe, it is quite logical to thank you for your help. Good thing we got it. Just remember that in those days, Giuseppe Conte, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Italy, criticised the EU for all that was happening in late February and early March and during March in Lombardia and all that was happening in Italy. European Commissioner Ursula von der Lien later admitted that Italy was right and that the EU had not done enough to help Italy. Then why is it a sin to say that Serbia was right to take care of its citizens, and what can we get help for? Well, I'm sorry, here's the situation with the vaccines. Here, today I have followed very closely, the great news is that 70m euros have been approved to obtain the vaccine, but the bottom line is that until the EU's vaccine is obtained, it will give part of its contingents to countries that are not EU members, but are candidate countries. For us, the best and most important thing is that our country, our government, has provided vaccines. Here, we were among the first and with Switzerland and Great Britain to start the vaccination. Now after January 1st, we're going to get some contingents, but the most important news, and if it is, then we really have something to brag about and it's about the quality that exists in the state -- two million vaccines in the first trimester, if I read it correctly the other day. It is something that can only be enjoyed because it says that the crown problem in Serbia will be resolved quickly. So, I've only stuck to this dimension of the problem. I think it's important that we talk about this subject too, so that there's not some empty space left. At the very end, I think that the EU was busy with itself this year and that the most important problem they were supposed to solve, of course, is their problem as well as all of us – pandemic and I think our readiness to join and open new chapters was not simply for them at this point and that we haven't lost much, because if the EU really wants us as a candidate for EU membership, here, next year there, the fifth chapter is prepared for opening, so we will be able to see how they react for the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2400	Thank you. The word has a minister for European integration, Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2401	Thank you. Since you are the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, just in the beginning, please, you have repeatedly said that Ursula is von der Lian's commissioner, she is the President of the European Commission, to define it. Among other things, you mentioned important issues affecting our foreign policy, but also touching the obligations of cluster 6, which are foreign relations and foreign policy. Negotiating chapters are now a secondary instrument. According to the new methodology, we're talking about six clusters. Six clusters are the six leading EU policies in which Serbia must... That suits us, otherwise, because we have a high level of networking of our policies with EU common policies. What are the six clusters in which the chapters are grouped? The first cluster is the rule of law, fundamental rights and so on. There's five chapters. Of those five, we've already opened five. The cluster 2 in which nine chapters are grouped are the internal market, i.e. all chapters that are in some way related to economic criteria. Cluster 3 concerns competitiveness, competitiveness, social recovery, economic policy, economic recovery and social inclusion. Cluster 4 concerns the Green Agenda, infrastructure integration. Cluster 5 concerns the common agricultural policy, but also the policies of cohesion, so-called equal regional development and access to structural funds and, as I said, agriculture. Cluster 6 is about external relations. There are, by the way, only two chapters - Chapters 30 and 31. Why did I say this? Because with the new methodology that Serbia has actively accepted, which the European Commission has not worked out in time, a way to apply to the countries that are already negotiating, because it is initially formed for the new candidate countries that are yet to start formal negotiations, which are Northern Macedonia and Albania, and since this application of the new methodology has not been worked out, and therefore for the country that is already deep in the process of European integration, we have actually had a collision of two circumstances, some of our delays that have been objective and which have been presented, particularly in the area of the rule of law in this report. Of course, delays were partly due to the fact that the elections were not in April of the month, when they were due, but were at the end of June. A whole series of activities and legislative authorities have been moved, and so are executives. That's part of it. On the other hand, an interspace created between the adopted new methodology, while the unprepared work on how to apply to our process, has actually conditioned that what you said, which I agree with, is an EU preoccupation this year with its internal problems, where it is not just a pandemic problem, which is the biggest problem for everyone, but Bregzit is a fundamental issue that has been so difficult. You see for yourself, at the end of the day, there's a deal. You have raised the question of our relations with the People's Republic of China, with the Russian Federation, etc. Please note that the President of the European Commission, von der Lian, has called the European Commission a geopolitical committee. So this is the first time that the President of the European Commission has openly and clearly defined the EU and the European Commission as a geopolitical commission, which will be managed by the essential geopolitical interests of EU member states which are not consistent and coherent to the end, but which are ultimately defined through consensus and through majority decision-making as EU policy, a common foreign and security policy of the EU. Look what the problem is. It's not just a political problem, whether someone thanked the People's Republic of China or not. Of course we should thank you, and that's not controversial. By the way, March 21st, you're right, Chinese aid has arrived. Just to tell you that on March 20th, I signed with Ambassador Fabrizio seven million euros, the first seven million of 93m euros from IPA aid funds, medical equipment, drug purchases and more. If we're going to be very specific. I like precision in everything, but it does not diminish the importance of Chinese aid, of European aid, of Russian aid, of any kind. I don't think we should have put it on the cantar as much as we could. The European Union may have failed at first. It's one complex mechanism, but I think it's really shown solidarity with all other activities and we're with them. I agree that it has been overly stressed and I believe that the report overemphasises the gratitude expressed to the People's Republic of China, but I think that afterwards we have shown all solidarity and the EU with the Western Balkans and Serbia and we with the EU. There's another problem. The problem is that the policy that is the new geopolitical and new EU economic policy aimed at, you know that, Mr. Obradovic, is climate neutrality by 2050, where the EU is planned to be the first climate neutral continent. If we want to be competitive, to be competitive and sustainable, we must certainly work with the EU, which is at the same time our biggest market, as you said. Not all other global players, including the People's Republic of China or the Russian Federation, have an identical approach to this kind of policy. This creates a large polarisation, independent of political analyses, the state of democracy, where and what the EU has of political and economic relations with both the Russian Federation and China. They have highly developed economic relations, incomparably more than we have. That's a fact. This is about a global approach that really creates economic rivalry, which brings different political expectations among other things. Therefore, the EU's common foreign and security policy is deeply conditioned by the geoeconomic and geopolitical plans and platforms of most EU countries. We will be expected to deepen as we progress in the process, so to speak, in the EU's common foreign and security policy. We have already talked about the security component, the participation in military missions, civilian missions, the coordination of national strategic documents with the EU's global strategy. That's not at all controversial. As far as these political ones are concerned. There is a strong group of countries, especially Scandinavian and Baltic countries that see completely differently the role of the Russian Federation in their history or in their political orientation and foreign policy orientation than we do. Now we need to have an understanding for each other. I agree that sometimes there is not enough understanding but the process is quite politically required. None of us can ask, and to be absolutely clear, at this stage of the accession process to be 100% consistent with the common foreign and security policy, because also Article 10. Stabilisation and Association Agreements... In our negotiating framework and in the SAA itself, it is said that there are political and economic interests that can be protected and promoted to some extent by the accession state until it joins the EU. You keep saying full membership. Well, there's no full membership. Membership is by definition full-fledged, until the entry into EU membership. Political expectations exist, especially from some countries that Serbia is more harmonised. I am very honest about this and these expectations will be growing and higher than what will happen at the EU, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, the United States, Turkey is also an important factor and element that is no longer just a strong regional force. So these are really complex things. I think we understand what expectations are, but at the same time we also take care of our economic and political interests. In doing so, you mentioned that part of Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence, where we have support, as you said, in the Security Council, but we also have the support of five EU non-recognizable countries that require the EU to be statusally neutral. Is that always happening to the end? I agree not to, because the influence of certain countries is very strong in the EU that they recognise, but at the same time... That's when you talked about what a bush is, what a rabbit is. Don't forget these five members. The common foreign and security policy is also a major challenge for the EU itself. That's what I was talking about in the first part of the discussion. There have been so many differences and such huge differences over some of the issues of the common foreign and security policy that it even went to the idea that by making a consensus, it is replaced by a decision-making majority on the EU's common foreign and security policy. So, to make these decisions easier, it is not always easy to reconcile the interests of all 27 countries. Of course, it is not easy for us who are in the approach process to follow it completely. I'll tell you what. So politically strong is the process and the new methodology, and puts emphasis on political process management, rather than just some technological dimension that is important. Albania, for example, has 100% consistency with its foreign policy with the EU's common foreign and security policy, but this did not help them open negotiations, other issues were on the table. The process is complex, it is not reflected in all countries of the region in the same way, and, of course, we have different historical continuums that have led to different bilateral relations, but that expectations will increase alone, as the process progresses, especially in relation to a new methodology that explicitly puts political governance of the process and the political thinking of European integrations as a key and leading policy for a country that wants to join. It's these six policies, clusters that I just, let's say, have a more detailed explanation. Therefore, I understand the different positions of different political parties. There, my colleague Selakovic can certainly bring further explanations into all this, but I am very real, as European Integration Minister I know what expectations are, I know what the debate looks like and don't forget this is the geopolitical European Commission and these expectations will only be strengthened.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2402	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2403	Dear Mrs Joksimovic, thank you for these answers. As far as geopoliticals are concerned, with all due respect, you shouldn't have told me more than what you said or emphasized, because I teach it. So I know a lot about that. I didn't have time for my colleagues to talk, say a few words about why we didn't support some of the High Commissioner for Foreign and Security Policy. We have our own interest as a country. You know, I have made it very clear and loud, I think that 60% is a very decent number, given the fact that the negotiations started in 2014, that the methodology changes, that political criteria rule, that the interests exist individually and that it is not yet known when the date will be, and EU documents say that it is necessary to agree until the moment of membership. You know, 60% of the time you don't know that being a member is more than objectively necessary. You're a minister and you're negotiating. I am an MP and I speak in this esteemed House and speak what I think and I want the citizens to hear it. I know perfectly how things are with the Russian Federation and with the People's Republic of China, because China is the EU's first foreign trade partner in imports and others in exports. So it's so minor our relationship with China compared to what they have with China, but they don't object to each other in relation to us. I don't know if you know, within the 16 plus one process, we're the fourth or fifth partner by the size of investments and so on, so he doesn't object to Poland, to the Czech Republic, to Hungary as much as he complains... I said that I didn't think that Commissioner von Lien needed to say this because Serbia is doing well, because I am fully aware that both Bregzit and the kovid and the things they have within them are far more important than Serbia's accession or the opening of the negotiation process. You know, they're not talking about a new methodology.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2404	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2405	They speak of the rule of law and other criteria. Neither are they since yesterday, nor are they going to say all their things in a way, but since this is the National Assembly and we're talking about to let the citizens hear it, then it's time for them to hear every dimension of that story, so let them draw a proper conclusion. It is my conclusion that the government is doing well, that the state is working wisely, that we are developing relations with those countries that they want to work with us, because we are taking care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think we're doing a good job. After all, the situation around Kovid and around the vaccine shows that Serbia is doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2406	Thank you. The time provided for the replica is two minutes. The word now has the deputy chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2407	Thank you. Although for the first time today we are considering the conclusions on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020, which are set out at the European Integration Committee's session, I would first refer to certain parts of the Report that I think are important and have a major impact on the further process of Serbia's Eurointegration. Before that, I must stress that we are all aware of the fact that European integration is a process that takes time, i.e. requires a certain time and, above all, I am thinking of the reforms that we are carrying out in all areas of our society and that will ultimately lead to the full harmonisation of our legislation with the legal assets of the EU. It is not something that we can do overnight and we in parliament are fully aware of these facts, because most of our activities in previous years have just taken place in that direction. Our goal is to meet the membership criteria, because developed Western countries are the kind of society we want to belong to and whose standards we want to apply, which, of course, includes living standards. The European Union is the strongest economy in the world, our largest trading partner with almost 70% foreign exchange, but the most investment comes right from EU countries, and at the very top, of course, Italy and Germany. Serbia's president, when appointed prime minister for the formation of the government, and later prime minister in his Expoze, made it clear that Serbia's main strategic definition is membership in the EU. Of course, I voted for the government that set these goals. I support all the efforts that are making it happen, especially the formation of the European Integration Ministry and the importance it has for the implementation of this process. After all, our citizens have also supported this very definition in the elections. There is a lot of work ahead of us and we need to take into account the developments within the EU itself at the same time, the changes that have been happening over the past few years. Since 2015, the European Union has since the first major wave of the migrant crisis, and then Bregzita, numerous terrorist attacks, but also now the pandemics of the coronary virus face perhaps the biggest challenges so far. If we add to this the different views of the Member States on enlargement, I can only conclude that the circumstances in which Serbia negotiates membership may be the most difficult so far in relation to all the negotiations held by the current EU member states. I hope that EU Member States will consolidate their views, not only on enlargement, but on some other issues, such as the migrant crisis, which is also important for us. It is our interest for the EU to be unique and stable, to overcome existing problems, as happening within the EU also affects their commitment to enlargement. What I just mentioned when I was talking about these challenges really aren't criticism or justification, they're just facts, what's happening right now. Our negotiations are specific to all other candidate countries, and precisely because of Chapter 35, which has been mentioned here several times today, Minister Selakovic discussed the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina in more detail. However, regardless, I would just add that whatever progress we make in other chapters that are equally important to us in Serbia, and our overall progress will be measured by progress in dialogue with Pristina, as well as progress made in Chapters 23 and 24. As the Prime Minister and Minister for European Integration have mentioned, we will make greater efforts to reform precisely in these areas. Serbia has been fully committed to dialogue with Pristina since the signing of the Brussels Agreement in 2013 and its adoption in this parliament, and the report says that Serbia is still engaged in the dialogue, of course commending our engagement, but I will quote the part relating to Pristina, which is: "No progress has been made with regard to the Serb Community, with the Serb majority. Kosovo has not yet engaged in establishing it. There is also a delay in dialogue over the introduction of taxis by Pristina on goods from central Serbia." Since this issue is extremely important for the overall process of European integration, as I have already mentioned, I expect that during the dialogue that continued this year, with the EU's intermediation, it will address the issue of key importance for Serbs in KIM, i.e. for their safety and survival. Although the European Commission's report covers and assesses progress in all areas we are negotiating with the EU, I would like to highlight part of the report on our region, on regional co-operation and what we have done so far on this plan, but also on Serbia's commitment to establishing a better relationship with our neighbours. Our ultimate goal is the stability of the region through political dialogue, economic co-operation and, of course, infrastructure integration. Political will is a prerequisite for all these activities, and that such will exists we showed 2014 at the first summit held in Berlin under the Berlin process. Then for the first time, all the leaders from our region gathered at the same table and sent a message that we could talk and that we could solve all the issues through dialogue. However, the Berlin process has put an emphasis on strengthening regional co-operation, of course on political and economic integration, above all, but also on the areas of the Digital Agenda for Security and Combating Corruption, promoting youth reconciliation. Serbia participates not only actively, not only in this initiative but also in a number of other regional initiatives. We in parliament adopted agreements resulting from the Berlin process, which is the Belgrade-based Transport Community Agreement, then the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund, the establishment of a Regional Office for Youth "RAJKO", based in Tirana. All the agreements I mentioned were adopted in parliament, but the parliamentarians of the Western Balkans, as representatives of the highest legislative bodies, have never met within the Berlin process, which I think is a really big failure and I hope, that is, I believe that this will change perhaps for the next summit. When it comes to regional co-operation, I'm going to quote a section of the report on the area. At a summit in Zagreb in May 2020, EU and Western Balkan leaders agreed that deepening regional economic integration must be an important part of the Western Balkans' recovery effort. To achieve this, Serbia needs to play a constructive role in building a common regional market, which will be crucial for increasing the region's activity and competitiveness. This will help Serbia speed up recovery from the pandemic, especially to attract investors seeking diversification of offers and shorter chains of values. It is then said that good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation are a key part of Serbia's European integration process. They contribute to stability, reconciliation, a positive climate for resolving open bilateral issues and the legacy of the past. I will only add that a safe and stable region means a stable and secure EU and vice versa. Finally, I am sure that the next report will be much more favourable because we heard here today from colleagues, they listed all those activities that we had in parliament in the meantime. Of course, all together, the Government and the Assembly will work to achieve the best possible results, because I think it is in the interest of all citizens of this country, of course to contribute to the better lives of all of us living in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2408	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Aleksic. You have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2409	Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, distinguished ministers, respected citizens, today the conclusion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which points out that, in addition to establishing all the recommendations and assessments made by the European Commission, we remain ready to make an active contribution to meeting the political criteria for membership in the Union. Serbia is committed to European integration. We are witnessing the increased activity of all entities dealing with this issue, primarily the Government of Serbia, the Ministry of European Integration and the Assembly Committee on European Integration. The government has already prepared an implementation plan for the first negotiation cluster of the rule of law. Serbia has articulated a consistent strategy for EU accession, and if a break has taken place this year, we have no doubt that in 2021 it will bring a shift, and that we will open chapters, i.e. clusters that are in the procedural and essential sense ready for that. Our JS party actively advocates Euro integration through concrete works. Our President, Mr Markovic, has shown that local self-government is run with a prominent social responsibility component. He has provided investors from EU countries, providing them with adequate conditions. The result of this work today is seen in the employment of people and in general improving Serbia's overall business environment. Since time limits me a lot, I'm just going to look back on certain parts of the EU report. Already the introduction states that the dynamics of the negotiations will depend on reforms in the area of the rule of law and normalisation of Serbia-Kosovo relations, they wrote Kosovo, and we will say of course the AP Kosovo and Metohija, and in Serbia, the competent authorities and institutions are working intensively to normalise relations, continue dialogue, meet all international obligations, can we say that for the other side? We have already focused all our political and organisational resources on improving and improving all the areas that are being negotiated. As for economic criteria, the best-rated part of the report, it is clear from Europe that Serbia has achieved a high degree of macroeconomic stability, that it is progressing in the areas of competition policy, financial services and implementation of international standards. Serbia is a factor of stability in the Western Balkans and is committed to building stable good neighbourly relations. It is important to adopt recommendations on equal opportunities for women and men in employment, social policy, social inclusion and protection as soon as possible, to adopt new strategies concerning the protection of child rights. I would also refer to Euroscepticism, which as a point of view in Serbia exists in a small part of the public, in certain political structures. But what we cannot ignore is that this opinion is present among the younger population. According to a survey by the roof organisation "Young Serbia", mistrust in the Union has increased slightly compared to 2017. However, according to relevant domestic research, European integration supports nearly 53% of citizens. So it's a process to enjoy a very broad support. However, in these polls, a certain percentage of respondents who are neither for nor against European integration are constantly emerging. As the source of information, the most citizens cited the government of Serbia, then, education systems, personal contacts, the "njo" sector and lastly parliament. It is important for citizens to be more informed about this subject than they are now, to have valid insight into all the issues they are interested in so that they can properly form their views. I would finish my exposure in the hope that next year will have a more dynamic negotiating process. We from the JS believe Serbia will join the EU as a primarily respected and strong state. The modern Serbian state has come up with European ideas. The question of Europe is identity. For us, Serbia is an inseparable part of the European civilization and cultural context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2410	Thank you. Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2411	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers and first citizens of Serbia, I will continue in the spirit of my colleague, Zagorka, and on the topic of the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2020. Yes, Serbia has been and the rest of Europe without official paper as a member of the EU, but we believe that we will be. The SPS MPs will absolutely vote for the Serbian Parliament's conclusions. But it was heard in the discussions before mine, and I'm not going to say anything new, there's criticism here that we all think is a little unfounded, that they are a little bit, as I would say, without being too harsh, that you don't mind me and I'll look back at two parts of this report. The first is the one concerning the Assembly, and it does indeed treat one time behind us, which we have already overcome here and there in the current term. All their recommendations are less in one short period of two months, you might say. But what makes me the most of the ears anywhere is the normalisation of the relationship between Serbia and Kosovo. I am infinitely subjective and my discussion will be absolutely subjective to the topic above all because, laughs Minister Komic, she knows of my manner, I expected myself here in the report because somehow I consider myself an EU case as a displaced person and one of 200 and a few thousand had to be dedicated to these people. We have criticism here on account of what Serbia has done or has done. We don't have any criticism on what's so-called. Kosovo didn't do it. It's a child, to a good extent, the EU. Don't let him insult me. I have absolutely nothing against Eurointegration, which is more, but not Eurointegration at the cost that I feel less important than there, someone who is more expensive, closer, eventually, paid them more and they have the right to do it. I don't want to disturb their habits, but I want to say one thing. If Serbia educates its children in schools in a way to explain to them where the Eiffel Tower belongs and why Big Ben is beautiful, we teach them where the Peèka Patriarchia is and who built it. Don't patronize me with an excuse to caricate the historical invoices. Don't give me what ours is to attribute to someone else, as much as it seems to you at this point as I see Mrs Susana Sic's statement – Serbia recognises that Kosovo's independence cannot be annulled, I don't know which Serbia is talking about. I don't know what independence he's talking about, except for one that can be the personal position of certain EU members, we have those countries that have absolutely not recognised it, so are they less important? After all, he said, Zarko Obradovic, I think, is the point. I am trying to say as quickly as possible to keep time for my colleague, Zvonko Stevic, which is that in 2020 was difficult for all of us, and for the EU through many aspects observed. In that sense, we were probably less important, but we just have to realize that when we say one of these sentences, it is also followed by a threat that there will be another administration in the United States since January 20th, I don't know how to experience it, except that we should and we want to talk, and I'm someone who has participated in informal talks and I'm always in hearing what the other side thinks, but I'm not for it to impose your opinion on me at all costs and explain to me how Serbia and Kosovo will change the Constitution. Maybe they will. That so-called. The Republic of Kosovo has been well prescribed from the Serbian Constitution and I even talked to them about how it is not fundamentally bad. They don't apply it a bit, because if they were to apply it then today I couldn't say here in the Serbian Parliament what I want the representatives of Europe to hear, which is that if you apply the Constitution and respect human and civil rights then you can't happen that 1% of people can't go to their estate for 20 years. You know, these are no longer human or minority rights, and in this sense all the discussions concerning minority rights in Serbia, which are at risk or I don't know – fall somehow into the water. I won't blame my colleagues, Cambery. He's here to tell that story. I'm going to resent those who seem to have tried to say one thing, but in the wrong way. It cannot be from Mr. Camberi, however attached he is to the Pristina leaders, and from him, through him, in fact, by them a mercy for the representatives of Serbs in the southern Serbian province. For her, we must fight from here. We and the European Parliament. In this sense, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not have an easy task, and it is very difficult for them to negotiate those who are sitting in Brussels and who are in official negotiations with Brussels, but also for those who are trying like Minister Joksimovic to really respect Europe's demands without doing any damage to Serbia's country before which we are responsible, gentlemen, we have been elected by the citizens of Serbia, to take care of Serbia and to be state-of-the-art enough that whatever they do, it does, does not affect anything of Serbia's interest, let alone its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2412	Thank you. National MP George Dabic. MP Gjorge Dabic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2414	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the European Commission's report on our country's progress on the road to the EU, and I think it is certainly important today to discuss what Serbia has done in the previous year and what we have been working on. Also, I think we need to see rationally what the European Union is to us today. Today, the European Union is Serbia's main foreign trade partner. We today two-thirds have a trade balance with EU countries, more than 60% of foreign investment comes to us right from the EU, 63% of the total trade exchange we have with EU countries. The comparison works, the next is Russia with only 7%, then China goes 6%, Bosnia and Herzegovina with 5%. When I say this, I say it is very important to be aware that although our people are here and that they are sympathetic to countries that defend Serbia's right and sovereignty in the UN Security Council, we must again be realistic and say that today the EU certainly is and will be the main objective of this government. So EU accession certainly remains the main goal and that is without any dilemma something that is in our interest. When we look at the numbers, they're exact. They're talking about it being very important, first of all from our economic point of view. And above all, Serbia is a country that heritages old European democracy, we are a state, and we proudly say, which had the first constitution, liberal, free, where we stepped out, over 200 years ago in this sense, so that we really have every right today to be part of the European family of people as, I say, once again, one of the oldest European people in this area, as someone who has the oldest culture of parliamentary democracy today in Europe. Indeed, when I talk about this report, I believe that it is written in line with the new methodology, but that it also respects the fact that Serbia has made major shifts compared to the previous year. If we look at the report adopted last year by the European Commission, we can say that we have managed to and how many solutions we have brought together and to say today that more than 60% of this coherence exists with European security and economic policy. On the other hand, what they resented us last year, we have in one good way realized this year. I'm talking about how we managed to adopt legal solutions that give great autonomy, broader autonomy to the Anti-Corruption Agency. So, all that they criticized the previous years, we were able to put into the agenda today of what we solved the previous years. First of all, I think of the interpartial dialogue that we have conducted in Serbia under the European Parliament's patronage, we have adopted many of those positive legal solutions that have affected that we can talk today about better electoral conditions in our country. I will remind everyone that we have managed to secure and settle the electoral lists, all those criticisms about having a functional campaign, we have managed to bring it into line with European policy in the legal frameworks. So today we're saying that and how we managed to get everything that they listed in the previous years as something that should be fixed, we worked on it in the previous year, and that's what we see in this report. Also, we are talking about Mrs Comic here having an initiative in the previous session to raise the threshold for women's participation here in parliament. Today we have 40% of women here in parliament compared to some previous period when it was 30%. The European Report here praises our commitment to regional co-operation, i.e. by linking the Balkan peoples to the destruction of these barriers that exist among our peoples. Serbia has indeed made a serious step in this direction, and I really think that this is something we must certainly commend and what we are going to vote on here. When we talk about some of the things the EU is apostropheing in this report as very important is the fact that this report praises the move in the fight against organised crime and corruption. The European Commission clearly states that we have a good legislative framework, but that we have a problem with implementing these laws. I'm saying again, that's exactly what we were saying here last week. So, the judiciary is independent, we will continue to deal with constitutional reforms next year in order to ensure that Chapters 23 and 24 are successfully implemented. But again, I say, the judiciary cannot be independent of the people. The European Commission on this side is expressing a certain concern that there are pressures on the judiciary here. We say – of course the judiciary should be independent, of course, that the judiciary should be an independent branch of power, but, you know, as a key body of the legislative authority, parliament has to control how judges do it. This is the control mechanism that parliament must have and in the coming period I am sure that we will provide the constitutional reforms with an even greater role of the judiciary, namely the independence of the judiciary in our country, but that we must preserve the part concerning the control of the judiciary itself. They cannot be some completely independent body of the whole people and thus he says it is a success and it is a democracy, when in their countries Parliament also plays this role concerning control functions over the judiciary. As far as what we are most pleased about in this report is that the European Union recognises and how the successful results Serbia has had at the level of economic policy. When we talk about it, this report says that Serbia played a very important role when we were threatened by the coronary pandemic of the virus, six billion euros we gave for our economy and made sure that our economy worked. It also lists the report as a record low unemployment rate, as something that is a positive example today in Europe. So below 10% we have unemployment in our country. All of these are things that the European Commission particularly apostrophes in this report as something that is positive in Serbia and that certainly has contributed to Serbia being, and they acknowledge, the country with the lowest decline in economy across Europe. The European Commission also says that next year we will have 5% GDP growth, our government is in the view that this growth will be 6%. We really hope that we will manage to cope with the challenges of this crisis in the coming years, and of course we are committed to all of us, that the economy is certainly our first priority. As for the very methodology that this European Commission led when it adopted this report, it is new. So it's a methodology that's been adopted recently and we here have a fact that we don't open chapter by chapter anymore, our colleagues have talked about it, we adopt so-called. clusters, or sets of chapters that we open in the next period. I will remind you that we have submitted negotiating positions for the opening of even seven new chapters – Chapters 2, 3, 10, 14, 21, 27, 28. So we cannot speak as some today in front of parliament deceive the public that Serbia has not made any moves here. The fact is that we are waiting for these chapters to open, precisely because we have handed over the negotiating positions and it will certainly be adopted in the next period. Therefore, Serbia has made great progress in the past year. Of course, Chapters 23, 24 remain as crucial to which they insist. We will be able to ensure that these chapters are finally implemented by constitutional reforms of our judiciary, the judiciary in the coming year. Of course, Chapter 35 concerning KIM also stands on the agenda. We say again to our guests, whether they are here at the Gallery or not, whether they are following us, I don't know, but I'm sure they measure every word spoken here in Parliament, which is that Chapter 35... (President: They left a long time ago. ) Okay, but they certainly listen and I believe that they are very much following what we are saying here in Parliament today. It is very important to remind them that Serbia is committed to dialogue. We want to make a dialogue with Pristina. We don't want conflicts, we don't want any problems, but they have to influence their own, so I can tell the people who sit down in that provisional government that they're making a step, or that they finally start to realize what we signed seven years ago in the Brussels Agreement. Everything that was the obligation of the Republic of Serbia we respected, everything that was the obligation of the other party, and above all, regarding the PSO, we have been waiting for seven years. Here's eight years to wait and can't be realized. So that's the problem. Serbia cannot be blamed today for not opening Chapter 35, that is, for the dialogue with Pristina when there is a major problem on the other side. So, in the Pristina government, the temporary government must have a strong impact on them to solve the problem, that Serbia can finally say that the dialogue makes sense. If we have signed and committed to certain concessions, we have done everything regarding the Brussels Agreement, of course we expect the other side to finally realize what their obligations are after seven years. To conclude, we certainly remain committed to dialogue. We remain committed to everything that the Republic of Serbia has to do with this negotiating process. I hope that we will soon have even greater progress and I wish for happiness to all and the members of the government in the coming period that the final European agenda that is important to our country, we realise and become a full member of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2415	Thank you. For today's debate, there are two other speakers, Zvonimir Stević, seven minutes and Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, I don't know how many, but I appeal to social awareness. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2416	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a People's MP with the KIM, I am pleased that for the first time since the European Commission has reported the process of joining the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, we will be able to discuss such a report at the plenary session. We also have before us a proposal for a conclusion of the European Integration Committee on the presentation of this report. Without intending to ignore the importance of other parts of the European Commission's report, I will focus on the work on the Kosovo and Metohija issue, which the European Commission defines as normalising relations with Kosovo, conditioning that without that agreement, there is no entry into the European Union. From the European Commission's report so far, it is clear that it is an uninterrupted insistence that Serbia alone is the only party to make efforts to take steps, contribute and so on and so on. It is completely ignored that the Republic of Serbia is an independent state that has its sovereignty and territorial integrity, a member of the United Nations, and that the Albanian side that lives in the AP Kosovo and Metohija is the one who unfortunately, with the long-standing support of some foreign friends, asks that its demands be treated as requirements of sovereign and internationally recognised states, which they are not. It is true that a number of members of the United Nations have recognised a self-proclaimed state, but it is true that a large number of these countries have withdrawn their recognition, realizing that no one can be bypassed if such a process of violent tearing of the state does not stop. The improvement of Serbia's international position and thus strengthening the position in Brussels's dialogue contributed to the wise state and patriotic policy of our state leadership headed by President Vukic, as well as the wise foreign policy led by Ivica Dacic, the current president of the National Assembly. Thanks to diplomatic activities, Serbia restored its friendships with many countries, and during the days of Minister Dacic, 18 countries withdrew recognition of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. In the past decades, Serbia has paid its territory and its people large companies, bombed without a United Nations decision. It seems that only when it comes to precedents were allowed. Despite all the pressures, all the victims that Serbia has suffered in recent years have been sitting at the table and not with equal partners, but with those who have decided to build their own country on our country's territory. And for us, the issue of Cosmeta is not only a matter of territory, but of national and cultural identity, a place where the state of Serbia was created more than 10 centuries ago. State leadership led by President Aleksandar Vukic, who leads a responsible national policy, joined dialogue with Pristina to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue most optimally. The Brussels Agreement was signed as a framework for the continuation of dialogue defining the obligations of both sides in the dialogue. The conditions set out by the European Union were mostly at our expense, but we met them, often heavy hearts and swallowing dumplings. In doing so, we took care of the protection of our national and national interests. Unfortunately, Pristina has not fulfilled its obligations. For Serbs under constant pressure, living in enclaves, cut off, almost unprotected, the Serb community would be a refuge and a return to faith that they could still remain on their hearths. The Serb municipalities' communities are still missing. Instead of normalising the traffic of goods, in 2018, Pristina raised fees on Serbian goods by 100%, without having suffered any consequences from Brussels, it was silenced, tolerated, and we continued to deal with relations peacefully while the international community's reactions were lagging behind. With all due respect, as if half the world had remained blind to everything that was happening to Serbia. All kinds of pressures that Serbs have suffered from 1999 until today, there is no need to remind Europe and the world, but for the sake of citizens, I have to repeat what the situation is today. The attacks on Serbs do not stop, there is no sign of missing persons, the existence of the "Yellow House" has been confirmed in which Serbs were removed organs and sold to the west. Serbian children were killed, Serb monasteries were destroyed, burned churches and broken Orthodox crosses, ruined Serbian houses, many families expelled. About 250,000 inhabitants, and in the past 20 years, according to official data, only 2% returned. Why is it such a question is for the EU. They go on, today forging theirs, taking our history, the unfavorable monasteries and frescoes, they say they built them, they built them. Just to remind you of a historical record of who he is and when he was able to build Orthodox monasteries in the 12th or 14th century. According to an official 1455 Ottoman Empire document, the original of which is kept in the historic archive in Istanbul, in KIM, there were 46 Albanian families in the 15th century. If they don't trust our historical sources, then let them trust Turkish. We've never wanted anyone else, nor will we now, but we don't give ours. Historically, never Serbs were a source of destabilisation of the Balkans. The Albanians unfortunately abused, by the great forces, thinking they would be able to make their big Albanian dream come true. Despite everything the Serbian people have been through, we want to address all open issues in a peaceful way and dialogue. Serbia's leadership has been truly committed for the past eight years to finding a fair solution. Unfortunately, to this day, there is not much movement, and any progress that has been made has been made on our part. At the same time, countries do not forget their own people in Cosmet. It invests in Serbian environments, kindergartens, schools, homes of health, education, infrastructure and agriculture, etc. On the other hand, the West still sees Serbia as the main destabiliser of opportunities in the region. On the contrary, the destabilizer is a Pristina side, because it is well known that whenever something does not suit it, it resorts to various pressures and violence. The additional destabilization factor in the KIM space is also the instability of temporary Pristina institutions that choose something every year. In doing so, I want to point out...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2417	Sir, I know the subject you're talking about is very important, but you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2418	Just a few more sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2419	So get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2420	Apparently, on the basis of all this, the Pristina side does not care about stabilising the situation in the region. On the other hand, as a condition for EU accession, we are constantly under obligation to normalise relations with the Kosovo Albanians, but there is no dialogue without two sides. There should be no double standards, but the same rules apply to all participants in the dialogue. The bias was unfortunately often present, and I am free to say that this is also seen in this report by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2421	Thank you. Professor Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2422	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I'll take real care of the weather and try to cut my speech short. Dear Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Joksimovic, Komic, Mr Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen, with respect to the fact that Serbia's strategic goal is to join our country in the EU and to respect that trade and economy are in our country, and therefore our development in many and new jobs, the future of our country, depends on our relations and precisely on this type of integration. It is certain that we cannot also not support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the efforts of the rest ministers to make this process go better, faster, to go more dynamic, and to work together with us here in parliament to meet as quickly and as dynamic as possible and as high-quality as possible all European standards defined in the EU methodology in the accession process. However, I have a few things to say about what has been happening over the past few years in terms of Serbia's EU accession, namely, on the methodology that has definitely changed, we have this important aspect that it was said some year ago and that it will be possible for the EU's accession, that the EU structure itself will change into a domain and that there will be first-speed countries, the accession of the first, second and third, which was such an idea that came up with resistance, especially the member states of the multicity group, so these countries that are newer, so-called EU members, and what did not suit us, as a candidate country which we consider almost all here, most of us to meet many, many conditions, to join the EU as soon as possible. What encourages and what is important is that the economy, competitiveness and all that we have done thanks to brave reforms, implemented by President Aleksandar Vukic, who has imagined in the area of the economy, is thus strengthening, strengthening our economy, attracting foreign direct investment and making our country become an economic leader in the region, encouraging and representing, in fact, one key and a pillar of our accession, in addition to all these remarks, which the European Commission has on everything we do in others, therefore, in different domains of social life and in different domains and areas that treat different chapters when joining the EU. What would also be apostrophe, it is a great work, and I congratulate Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, for positioning the SNS, and therefore our country in Europe, in such a way that the SNS will host the political Assembly of the European People's Party, and that is ultimately one of the very important evidence and concrete things and results that show the things that this EU respects Serbia and how much it really cares that Serbia is faster integrated into the European family of people, so political ties and political communication with key political parties and EU member states, is sufficiently talking about how much recognition we have, as a state for everything we do in the process of political and social and all other reforms. It is also important to note, that we are well assessed on regional stability, there is a lot of energy invested, a lot of patience, and I must mention that Serbia has been a permanent member in the past few years and a driver and initiator of different, both regional and other initiatives and integration, our excellent co-operation with the countries of the multi-city group, which may be even better, especially in the economic sense, Orthodox quadritary, therefore, between Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania and Greece, of course, our participation in various agreements, such as CEFTA Agreement and other agreements and finally what it is and the outcome of the Washington Agreement, which is signed in America on 4 September, and this is Mini Schengen and finally what will give a new spirit, a new character of development and modernisation of the entire region, but also its stability, and the possibility of providing in the region a free flow of human and capital. This is what President Vukic has been saying for years, that in fact it is a prerequisite for what can be and what is most important for this region, which is the long-term stability and long-term possibility of planning and developing co-operation and projects concerning infrastructure, interconnections, integration between countries and people, so that they can make progress on the economic plan and to better prepare everyone for faster EU entry. As I said, in this area we have greatly improved, thanks to personal ties and personal pawning of the President of the Republic, especially political and economic relations with key players in the EU, such as Germany, such as France, because Germany and German companies employ some 60,000 of our citizens, 60,000 workers working in German companies, and France has very good, big plans here in Serbia when it comes to economic co-operation and investment. Italy as a traditional partner and a country that is definitely one of our country's lawyers when it comes to EU accession with Hungary and other multi-city groups, which are very well representing and working together with us and we are in the interest that Serbia joins the EU as soon as possible. So these are some aspects that are important with all that the European Commission has defined as observations. For some, we can say that they are definitely based on arguments, but I would say that the vast majority is, in fact, the product of a bureaucratic EU and the European Commission, especially in solving the problem, but also in defining the future of the EU, for which they themselves are obviously in this year, and in previous years of the crisis, they cannot clearly define what they want and what they want for the EU in terms of international relations and global policy and global economy. As a result, I would also like to say that I should especially tell our EU friends and partners something that is the result of statistics, something that is accurate, which is the latest research that shows that the confidence of Serbian citizens in the EU is definitely decreasing from year to year. For example, you have a situation where, after signing the Washington Agreement, only within two weeks, trust and a positive opinion on relations between Serbia and the United States has risen from 11% to 26%. So, two and a half times, that trust only increased in two weeks. Why? Because during the four years of functioning of the Trampo Administration, Americans had one pragmatic approach to solving problems in the Western Balkans because they understood and acknowledged that Serbia was part of a solution in the Western Balkans area, that Serbia had legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija and because of this pragmatic position there was a signing of the Washington Agreement, there was an opening of unsuspecting opportunities in the economy, in the area of investment, in the area of energy, in the area of security, whereas when it comes to the EU we have obviously been going on about a few things that we all think are important and are priority, and this is a matter of Kosovo and Metohija, but not with pressure, not with blackmail, not with the stick and carrots, but with a compromise, and with something that will define the end of the solution that will apply for the next few decades and for the next hundred years, and not some quick solutions that make it difficult to understand both sides, and undermin, that we would be easy to understand the problem. As Serbian citizens have treated those who are pragmatic, who have finally begun to respect our country and all that we are doing in terms of economic political reform, the change in attitude towards America and US policy here in Serbia, which was at the lowest possible level until just a few years ago. So, gentlemen, friends and partners from the EU and the European Commission, I think that a much more pragmatic attitude, a position that would be based on metrics, on results that can be implemented on the ground, is something that Serbia can accept and that is something that we have heard on many occasions, and from President Vukic and these colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia who have been very dedicated to us today, and we have heard 100 times that Serbia is ready for dialogue, ready for a compromise solution and ready to invest all its human and other capacities in order to become part of the EU, but of course, to maintain and defend its dignity and to have this relationship tomorrow, as Jadranka Joksimovic said, in order to be part of those who make decisions, not those who follow policies are those who become part of something where they will ask and influence the decision making that are in the best interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so all those who live around us. So, all that I mentioned earlier is enough to say that Serbia, of course, needs to change, we need to be critical and we need to analyse what it is and what's in the European Commission's report, but we also need to say what we think when it comes to mistakes and a very, very big bureaucratic approach and the wrong approach of European institutions, especially the European Commission. During that time, of course, this research also treats political money ratings. It's research from a few days ago. So, a rating that implies that the SNS led by Aleksandra Vukic has and retains 66% of the vote of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia at the moment. All that you see, these dots, they're all others, so let's move on with, of course, further respect for all that we have defined as our country's strategic goal, which is EU membership, further modernization and especially the way forward economic reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-28-0.u2423	Thank you. We've completed today's debate. I also want to thank the promoters, but also the members of the government, Prime Minister Brnabic, who was at the beginning, and later had to attend a meeting of the Crisis Staff, Ministers Joksimovic and Comic, Minister Selakovic. We continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, parliamentary issues, and after that, we continue the debate, we have about two hours and 20 minutes left for SNS and nine minutes for SDS. After that, tomorrow will be voter day and then the end of the regular session. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., please ask MPs to insert their cards into the identification units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are present at this time, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present, which means that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Before we move to request information and explanations, or parliamentary questions, allow me to confirm the mandate of the new MP. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the parliamentary seat. You have also received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dusan Radojevic, elected from the electoral list "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children". On the basis of the decision of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Dusan Radojevic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask him to prepare himself for taking an oath. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath (the President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, to congratulate you on your choice and wish you successful work. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Since Tuesday, whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wants to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
