ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 131 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. Rules of Procedure, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 175 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Djordje Milicevic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1029	Thank you. Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr President, today I would like to refer the question to you first and then there is the Secretary-General who can help you answer the question. Namely, Articles 17. The Law on the National Assembly is foreseen when confirming the terms of the oath and the oath, as logical as it is, should be signed by every MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would not read the contents of the oath, but the bottom line is that every MP commits himself to performing a dedicated, fair and safe, faithful and above all the Constitution, a job for which he has taken responsibility. My first question is, did each of the MPs sign this oath after the mandate was verified? It makes sense that it is. If he has signed, then, on the other hand, it is logical that it is the responsibility and obligation of every MP to respect the content of this oath. As logical as it is, MPs who have a longstanding parliamentary standing and years of experience know very well the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the rules governing the work of the National Assembly. Then it is no coincidence that we have attempts, like last Thursday, when questions were raised to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to draw public attention through the incident situations, because a different reaction was likely expected on the other hand, so that those who wanted to create such an incident situation would first and foremost be presented as victims. Not counting, of course, that you will react, as president of the National Assembly, in one spirit of tolerance and continue the democratic debate. It seemed quite an accident before November 28th, when the Albanian flag day was marked. So we have a Rules of Procedure, we have a rule governing the work of Parliament. My second question, Mr. President, is that what we talked about at the College for a moment, is it in the plan to continue to define and produce an ethical code? Why am I asking this question? The ethical code, apart from the conduct of MPs within parliament, defines the way MPs should behave outside parliament. Because we are MPs not only in this building, but also outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If we had an ethical code, things wouldn't happen to us, they wouldn't come into such a situation that, for example, the heads of individual parliamentary groups of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been visiting over the Kosovo Security Force and sending us messages from such gatherings that, for God's sake, the reason their incident failed and failed to challenge the situation they wanted, thus concluding that the government of Ana Brnabic, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no weight. So, I repeat, the head of the parliamentary group at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who, logically, signed an oath that I mentioned in the opening statement. So the fact that someone is not in favour of dialogue, that someone wants to deal with politics, that personally has a feeling of less value, that's his problem, but he has no right to discriminate against other representatives of the national minority that he belongs to himself. Serbia absolutely does not want to discriminate against anyone. Absolutely no one would mind in this room the identity of this colleague, but he has a problem, I'm sure, with what he's saying. I am convinced that most MPs, most colleagues and colleagues, as well as most Serbian citizens, have a problem when someone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as an MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as head of the parliamentary group, says at a session of parliament -- that the flag of Serbia is freely in Gracanica. Excuse me, and what flag in Gracanica is that supposed to fly? So, my first question is about the oath, did each of the MPs sign the text of the oath? So it's an obligation and a responsibility then to respect it. The second question, we have the Rules of Procedure, we have the regulations and whether it's an ethical code-making plan, because I think it's very important that these things don't happen in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1030	Thank you. What's your first question, all the MPs are, at least that way, but we'll check, all the MPs after taking the oath signed to me, so that all the MPs who took the oath have sworn that oath and signed it. But based on your questions, we'll check again in our service. The second question relating to the code or, as you say, the Code of Ethical Conduct of MPs, we spoke about it earlier at a session of the College and we agreed to continue the activities that were already under the Administrative Committee. The chairman of the Committee, Mr Martinovic, will continue to coordinate the work on drawing up this ethical code, which we think would be good to bring during our term of office. Let's move on. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1031	Thank you. I will also address my question today to you, Parliament Speaker. Since you have recently spoken in public on several occasions about continuing the dialogue between the government and the opposition in electoral conditions, it remains unclear when exactly and concrete dialogue will continue where we left off last December. We adopted some conclusions on 13 December last year, and one of these conclusions was that we would discuss the demands and proposals that we were making at that first phase of the dialogue immediately after the election. That was one of the main reasons why we even accepted to participate in these unfair and undemocratic elections. From that, like I said, it's been almost a year. It's been six months since the election, and the dialogue has not continued until today. Why? Instead, we have an announcement of new elections, which means we have two years less than planned to try to agree, bring and implement agreed mechanisms. It's obvious that you're wasting your time here to get this non-democratic system to the election year, and then use the excuse that system laws, as they did last time, can't change in the election year, there's no time for that, etc. So all of this proves that the organiser of the dialogue must be the European Union, but also that it must monitor and be guaranteed that what is agreed and implemented. We will call on the European Union to no longer open chapters and not consider any negotiating chapter with Serbia, as long as the agreed mechanisms for improving electoral conditions and for creating conditions for free fair and democratic elections are not fully implemented, because this all confuses our citizens, confuses our public. If this society wants to be part of the European Union, then we must also adopt some European principles and rules of conduct in the country itself and its institutions. We have no objection to the dialogue being organised in the parliament building, but this composition of parliament and the ruling majority cannot possibly be the organiser of this dialogue, but only foreign ones in the conversation. The guilt of why it is necessary for a third party to organise such a dialogue must be sought in this regime, in part and in some previous regimes, but for this failure, the definitive collapse of social dialogue rules out the blame of this ruling majority. The SDA of Sandzak as a regional party, the Bosniak party, is interested in how we will be able specifically to work on a serious change in the political, or electoral system, if the new elections are announced in less than a year and a half. We have proposed a whole set of mechanisms to which Serbia should also be divided into several electoral units, among which Sandzak should certainly be one electoral unit from which at least 20 MPs will be elected and that, as one of the preconditions for this, a platform on the special status for Sandzak that we have proposed to these state authorities and the international community, in order to allow the citizens of Sandzak, but also for all citizens in Serbia to have minimum conditions for free, fair and democratic elections, and for Bosniaks a stable mechanism for political and biological survival in these areas. These and many more demands in the dialogue at the Faculty of Political Sciences and in the dialogue organised in parliament, with the help of European parliamentarians, we were. However, we received guarantees that immediately after the elections we will discuss their implementation. That's not gonna happen. One of the preconditions for continuing such dialogue is the free media, but also the formation of a transitional government in which all those planning to participate would take part. So, my question specifically to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1032	If you can ask a question, because it's already been 17 seconds. Now you're going back to the first sentence you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1033	I asked a question at the beginning, I'll repeat. So, the question specifically for you – why are the talks on electoral conditions stopped and when will they be specifically continued? Did European parliamentarians ask you to continue, and when will they be specifically continued?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1034	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1035	We expect the European Union to understand the seriousness of freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1036	Thank you. It's been a while. Since you asked me this question, as you know, Mr Imamovic, I was not a national MP in the previous term and as I was informed and written, as far as I know, I do not know exactly now, but about 90% of what was agreed and implemented by amendments to different laws, the adoption of both sublegal acts and by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. With that in mind, everything that's agreed is sort of implemented. When it comes to the second phase of dialogue, you know I've been elected, I think, October 22nd. It's been a month since. It envisioned an agreement reached by the exchange of letters between then-President Maja Gojkovic and McCallister, on behalf of the European Parliament, to assist the European Parliament in inter-party dialogue. It is agreed that the second phase of the inter-party dialogue is being held after the parliamentary elections until the next elections are held. The deal remains, but no one is expecting or expecting that dialogue to continue in the past month, as far as we're going to do. I've already talked about it, I think, at the last session, that's what Djordje Milicevic was asking. So, the National Assembly remains under an agreement that was reached earlier, the dialogue will continue, in the meantime the conditions have changed in that it needs to talk now, I think, and the format, because some of the opposition political parties are no longer in parliament. This dialogue is not organised by the EU. The presidents of the dialogue are the president of the National Assembly and representatives of the EU and the dialogue will continue. Your demands to form a transitional government and everything else you've mentioned now, it's neither the subject of an inter-party dialogue nor it's possible. If anyone who wants to participate in the elections is going to ask for a transitional government to be formed and that anyone who wants to participate in the elections is a member of the transitional government, I don't think it can be part of any dialogue, nor is it the subject of our debate. We need to discuss electoral conditions, discuss whether we should change some laws, whether or not the conditions should be created. The European Parliament is working online, practically not working. In this regard, we also agreed that after the adoption of the budget, we would have a discussion with the representatives of the European Parliament and see who their representatives are further in the dialogue and to agree on both the topics and the time when this dialogue will begin and certainly be the beginning of next year. National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1037	The esteemed chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is the reason for my report being filed four years ago by the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade against former Go Vračar leaders and the business space of Vračar Municipality and their closest associates. I believe most of the people in the D.A.'s office are honest and honest people, but we are witnesses that for this criminal record for four years we've only heard silence, i.e. We can't hear anything. This criminal report was filed by my colleague Aca Markovic, a MP from Vračar, and I, as chairman of the parliamentary group in Go Vračar. After Markovic and my speeches on the subject, there were threats and the prosecution's silence. To remind you, the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade on 28 December 2016 filed a criminal complaint against Mihajl Samofalov, Aleksandar Djurasinovic, Vladimir Medakovic, Svetlana Trinudic, Branimir Kuzmanovic, Tijana Blagojevic, Aleksandra Ivanovic and Mirjana Djordjevic for the existence of a suspicion that they have committed a crime - abuse of official office. I'm just going to give you one piece of this criminal report. All of the above comes from the findings of the report of several services, in the first place of the report of the DRI, and we had opportunities the other day to see that report where this was also confirmed. Then the Journal of Budgetary Inspection of the City of Belgrade, the findings of the internal and external auditor, which clearly pointed to certain illegal actions of Vračar municipality, or its competent and responsible persons. In connection with this criminal application, and in connection with the affairs committed by DS and their coalition partners in the period until 2016, and we recall in the part of that period Dragan Gilas was also the mayor of Belgrade, in one part and the president of the City Committee, and later the president of the DS, and we hear about these affairs and apartments, proven, both Gojko Gilas and Dragan Gilas, I will now announce to you the number of apartments that have disappeared and business space in the territory of Go Vračar, obviously in the organisation of all those who were in office, and we do not have adequate answers from the prosecution and other competent institutions. As far as the business space of the Vrachar Municipality is concerned. In 1993. Vračar municipality had 728 business rooms of a total area of 49,492 square meters. On July 8, 2016, when power was changed, when Vračar came to power in Vračar Municipality with coalition partners, if all that was returned to the restitution or in accordance with the law was excluded, it was concluded that there was no documentation for 5354.02 squares of business space, i.e. 5354 squares of business space had disappeared. Let me just tell you that the average price of squares of business space is between 3,500 and 4,000 euros on Vrakar, so we can conclude that someone has used 20 to 25, if not more than millions of euros. In doing so, we have outstanding claims on the business space of Vračar municipality by 2016, total value of five and a half million euros. Further, apartments, 421 apartments were owned by Vračar municipality according to data from the Republic Geodetic Institute. When the government changed, if we exclude those apartments that were bought, returned to the restitution process or are located in the Vračar municipality's business space, we have a situation that we have indisputable 158 apartments, a controversial 103, 70 apartments that have disappeared by destroying or attaching. So the value of these apartments towards the market is between 40m and 50m euros. We are coming to the conclusion that by 2016 this government has also benefited from between 70m and 80m euros. My question is, when will the prosecution, when will the competent institutions question these allegations? To review this criminal report and get us both MPs and citizens of Serbia are either making answers or we're going to leave this somewhere in someone's drawer. Who's the one in the D.A.'s office who's hiding this? So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1038	Since there are no more reported at 287. Rules of Procedure, let's get back to work. We would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Elvira Kovac, Sanja Jefić Brankovic, Djordje Komlenski and Marijan Risticevic. Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of Parliament, in the assembly of this session that has been delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure need the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to merge the debate. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinović, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 192 paragraph 3 and in accordance with Rule 157(2) of the Rules of Procedure, has proposed to carry out, under a joint single search on: Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2019, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic Budget and the Control of Public Spending; Report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2019, with a proposal for the closure of the Finance Committee, the Republic Budget and the Control of Public Budgets; Report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic Budget and the Control of Public Funds and the Annual Report of the Commission on the Value of the Commission for 2019, with a proposal for the Commission's conclusion of the Finance Committee for the financial year 2019, the Republic of 20th and the Republic of the European Parliament to the European Commission's proposal for the implementation of 20th of the European Parliament to adopt of 20th of the European Parliament for the European Parliament to the European Parliament on the European Parliament on the Commission's resolution of 20th year. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total - 189, for – 181, did not vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total - 190, for – 182, did not vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2019, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending; 2. Report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2019, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds; 3. Report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 January to 31 December 2019, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds; 4. The annual report of the Commission on securities for 2019, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending; 5. Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2021, which was submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending; 6. Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the amendments and additions of the Commission's financial plan for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending; 7. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body for 2021, which was submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and 8. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Statute of the Securities Commission, which was submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings of Dragan Sikimić, Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption; Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council; Hana Hukic, President of the Republic Commission for Public Procurement Rights in Public Procurement Procedures; Marko Jankovic, President of the Securities Commission; Vesna Gojković Milin, Deputy President of the Republic Commission for Public Procurement Protection; Dejan Damjanović, Deputy Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption; Nikola Altiparmak, member of the Fiscal Council; Svetlana Razić, member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement and Marija Obradović, Katarina Pavić, Verka Atanasković and Natas Bozic, assistant director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption of Corruption. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87 of the position. 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda as soon as possible. Also, I just want to tell you that we have discussed the course of this session at the College, and that means that the plan today is to complete a joint single search on the first four points of the agenda, and that tomorrow we will do a second joint search on the remaining points and that tomorrow, after that, it will be a day to vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, pursuant to Articles 192, 193 and 238, paragraphs 4, and in accordance with Article 157, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2019, with a proposal for the closure of the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2019 with a proposal for the closure of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Annual Report of the Commission on Public Procurement in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Annual Report of the Commission on Charter of Values for 2019, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Are the representatives of the motionor, Dejan Damjanovic, deputy director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council, Vesna Gojković Milin, Vice-President of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, Marko Jankovic, President of the Securities Commission and National MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending? Alexandra Tomic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1039	Dear President, the honourable representatives of the institutions that we are discussing today, fellow MPs, today we have the opportunity to open a debate on many issues that we obviously haven't had in a year, because from the last report to this day, much has changed, except for the choices we have had and the changes of many laws that involve the work of your institutions, it is obvious that this pandemic has done a lot of things in this Serbia to change, and the way you work when you start from the daily work of your institutions. What we had the opportunity to hear from you on the board, that's how you managed as an institution at the time of the pandemic this year, that's how it was before the pandemic last year, in 2019, and how it is now. We have had the opportunity to see how much has changed in your work, but we have also opened up on the Committee some questions that we consider to have in the future through certain public hearings, and through this session to open, because obviously what we adopted on November 10th has changed a lot in public when you look at both political life and everyday life in the Republic of Serbia compared to your competences. I'll start from the beginning. When we look at the report submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2019, it is clear that in 2019 it was quite calm about your work, i.e. you had this support for this political dialogue, which meant amendments and additions to the laws before the elections themselves, and they relate precisely to changes in political activities. When we talked about a functioning campaign, but also about the way the agencies will work in the future, given that we have adopted amendments and additions to the Act on the work of the Agency itself and the assembly majority that did and the SNS, of course, there is now a continuity when it comes to certain reforms in the legislation, but it should be said that a lot has been done in terms of international co-operation and the GREKO International Organisation, which otherwise corresponds to the Council of Europe in one advisory sense, which is of 13 recommendations, for which we have been constantly called in the Council of Europe that simply, Serbia is not progressing, nothing is working on this issue, there are now only two that relate to constitutional changes. I believe that in that part, when we talk about international co-operation, as an institution you have done a lot and have become, for the second time, the chairman, vice-president of the anti-corruption network of relevant institutions through international flows. What is important to us here in Parliament is that we have adopted the Law on Lobbying, that we have adopted amendments and additions to the Law when we talk about political activities, that you have opened up and arranged the issue of the work of NGOs, in particular that you have adopted a kind of regulation in which competitions are actually discussed when it comes to the non-governmental sector, but also the part where you talk about what measures should be taken when it comes to officials themselves, we see that every year you simply raise the scale on this issue. When we look at your work in terms of capacity raising, then we see that there was once a much smaller number of employees than now, but still, according to systematization, you still haven't crossed 49% when we talk about employment compared to systemization. It means that these human capacities... You really need help and you need to do all these competitions, although on three occasions in 2019 you tried to do it. Obviously, the ways in which someone should compete are the very profession that needs to be employed in that agency, with us being MPs here somewhere thinking that a lot of things around here in public are in some way not effectively done. Why am I saying that? Because, let's say, on November 10th, we now had the last session, and today on December 1st, we have in public, based on investigative journalism, a certain asset of former officials who overcome the natural possibilities for anyone to earn 35 apartments in Serbia, such as Mr Gilas, or for the function campaign as an individual in the presidential elections in a certain way through NGOs to get eightm euros to participate in elections, such as the issue was the People's Party, or their president, Jeremic. So, a person gets money from abroad through NGOs and participates in a political campaign. Secondly, the person who reported the property, like Dragan Gilas, by 2012 and had 1,625 square meters in apartments in Belgrade and Serbia, is now suddenly found out, based on investigative journalism, that there are 35 apartments and 1,725 square meters of real estate, which are actually in his brother's property. This means that somewhere clearly the system, not just you as the Agency, but the system of origin of the property, has not been efficient enough so far. We have not passed, obviously, effective laws with which this way of stealing Serbian citizens who have been involved in politics and abuse of official office have never opened up an important issue in society. For this reason, I believe that today's session will be opened and we will fully unearth this topic in a completely open way in direct talks with Serbian citizens. It is very important for us, as MPs, because they honor us, believe me, many international organisations, and this Council of Europe when we talk about fighting corruption that we are not doing enough, and citizens are aware of every step to see that there are such people who have earned 35 apartments from politics, 1,725 square meters of business, residential space in the Republic of Serbia. I ask you - what kind of work do you have to do today to increase your assets since 2012 and you are a former politician, and you are present as some opposition politician and you have your own political party that you claim to go to elections and run around in these international organisations, suing the Republic of Serbia as it is undemocratic, how does it simply not protect human rights? Excuse me, where are the human rights for Serbian citizens who obviously remained damaged in the property sense that someone today would have 35 new properties? First of all, it's very good that you took and dedicated yourself to making a new Function Register, but when we talk about former officials, they shouldn't be obsessing cases like Dragan Djilas, like Vuk Jeremic, like Bosko Obradovic. So, these items have to be handled, regardless of what two years have expired since they are no longer in office, because apparently their property remains owned by them, changes in relation to their family members, so-called. "connected faces" we didn't even know about until now. I think today's session should open up these many questions that you need to give certain answers that were your legal mechanisms, that you simply respond to certain information in the public that we have received as citizens of Serbia, but also to what will be in the future. It's clear to us that we've changed the Agency's law precisely to improve your work, to enable you to react to these things that are happening in any case. I'll say one more thing. Obviously as someone's property grows, you can see that in society somewhere and hate speech and calls to the lynch are growing more and more. This means that we are doing a good job both as MPs and Aleksandar Vukic, who leads the SNS and as president of the state, because apparently we have driven these laws somewhere to clean up how does someone who was mayor by 2012 now represent one of the richest people in the Republic of Serbia and represent themselves as the leader of the opposition and how can the state do nothing to him? Obviously, we are now creating mechanisms by adopting a Law on the Origin of Assets implemented by the Tax Administration, an obvious change in the law, when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency that we simply have to move some things faster and that we simply have to use them. What we see, and not only on the basis of your Report, but also on the basis of the Commission's protection of the rights of tenderers in public procurement procedures, and when we talk about the Securities Commission, it is that courts are somewhere in the percentage of solving certain cases and resolving certain issues which are raised by competent institutions simply do not increase the number of their cases which are being resolved in favour of both the institutions and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That means somewhere still that relationship with the judiciary, in terms of administrative procedures, is still standing on the same level as before. That means that a lot of things in public, obviously, we have to talk and talk, because it's the only public that's running things around somewhere that are relevant to the application of the law. When you look at the number of judgments when it comes to protecting the rights of bidders in public procurement procedures, and God and you as Anti-Corruption Agency, then you will see that this percentage of judicial proceedings, here I have just watched in your report that much has been suspended when it comes to court proceedings or become obsolete. This means that simply in that part, when it comes to these legal regulations in the field of justice for the administration of procedures, we have to raise that scale somewhere like we did, as far as your laws are concerned. When we talk about the Commission for the Protection of the right of tenderers in public procurement procedures, it should be said that it is one specific commission that has its nine members. So eight members and one president. It works within three larger members and each major one makes its own decisions. Since they often highlight the terms of office of members before the time, then we come to the fact that this commission is very often, and the choice of members also goes into prey, we are in a situation that it usually works in the back. That is why we are always trying as parliament to respect all this within the deadlines. However, since we also had a pandemic this year, parliament did not work and because of the elections that were moved, we only had the full capacity of this commission's work on 10th. So this ninth member was elected as well. On the other hand, we are now in the course of the election, the competition has passed for the president and another member, so I can say that given the circumstances that have always reached this commission as a second-degree body in relation to the Public Procurement Administration that solves the issue of complaints, this commission has really good results. Why am I saying that? Because when you look at that in its 312 session in one year for 2019, it made 1096 decisions, and of which 873 initiated procedures, and that is 52% of the cases, requirements were adopted when it came to applicants who complained, we see that it is indeed the aim of this commission to carry out these procedures effectively and in the best possible way, given the staff that it has and the possibilities of the legal ones in charge. What is good is that in 2019 they were experts of the European Commission and they carried out a quality assessment, when it comes to the protection of right-holders in public procurement procedures and said it is indeed about certain so-called the vulnerable sectors, which are health and construction, when it comes to public procurement, the European Commission has indeed assessed with a high assessment of the work of this Commission. This means that she really does her job in a highly sophisticated way, given that it is very difficult with nine people, three bigger ones, to make these decisions, but that the deadline for the case being formed in the Commission has been moved within a year from 41 days to 28. This is actually the best indicator of how effectively this Commission is working. Of course, the number of cases is always high and always dissatisfied when they appeal to the Commission. You know, there's a lot of people who are involved in public procurement procedures, wanting to stop their competitor from getting that job, then complaining to the Commission to stop the procedure and try to win the competition in a certain way, when it comes to public procurement. That wasn't until 2012. This number of cases, this percentage of complaints received, did not exist this way. I think that we, as well as the MPs, helped in this because we adopted amendments and amendments to the Law on Public Procurement on several occasions and in 2019 the Commission participated in the development of this legal solution together with the Ministry of Finance, which we had opportunities here in Parliament to adopt. When we talk about the Securities Commission, this Commission is indeed a member of 260. The Capital Market Act is obliged to submit its reports to the Committee on Finance, Budget and Control of Public Spending and their report consists of two parts. One is business, and the other refers to the movement of capital itself. It should be said that this Commission has received many new powers, as I will remind you, we have adopted in Parliament a new Law on Audit, then new laws on open investment funds, alternative investment funds and stock exchanges. Of course, it also participates in the completion of the privatisation process by changing the tariff rules. That is why this Commission has been given new powers, the need to increase humanely so that it can do all these jobs that we have given it by law. I have to say that the activity relating to the Covid 19 pandemic itself, as well as these other institutions, has turned this institution to have to do a new way of working, not just online, but in a certain way to establish contact with interested entities in a certain way in order to function effectively. What I would say is that it is very important that one of the participants in writing the Law with the NBS on Digital Property and the Ministry of Finance and I think that in the future we will actually have a whole new way of functioning this institution, precisely because many models of functioning of securities of value, as we can see, are changing in the capital market in the world. What is important for us to say is that our country has managed to manage to raise the loans, which were raised by all those who ruled until 2012, now with all those parties headed by both Mr. Gilas and Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic, we have obviously managed to replace them with cheap loans, because Serbia has become an investmentally very interesting state, because it has made such an ambience, implemented reforms of its public finances, made an economic environment and a political environment in which every investor really wants to participate. Finally, what we have as a report by an independent institution is the work of the Finance, Budget and Control Committee, and I purposely left for the end, is the Fiscal Council because it is the institution with which we meet very often, not only once a year, as with these institutions that submit the report, but every time it comes to budget rebalancing. Now we'll have the budget. I'd like to announce that we're having a session of the Committee on Monday. The debates are being opened on boards with the help of the Fiscal Council because in their reports, they really give estimates in different segments of society when it comes to their analysis and Article 92. The law on the fiscal system, the Fiscal Council, otherwise, and its reports on business and financial plans, and everything relating to their work, is submitted to this Committee. What's important is that on June 10th, they submitted their business report and that they have 17 systematic seats in their operation. Of which are 12 civil servants, five are members of the Council and president. It is important that they have had their three reports through their three conferences. They started certain topics that were very interesting for us here in parliament. First because when they spoke in 2019 about reforming the pension system, they first launched a part relating to pension reform and it was always important for us that Serbia had certain opportunities to increase wages and pensions from its resources. We didn't always agree on an increase in pensions and salary increases, especially since it's always the Fiscal Council against salary increases because somewhere they think it should be much less. What is important is that we are really completely open about all the topics, and even about the investments and the way GDP should grow. With this in mind, the government has created a co-ordination body dealing with GDP growth and is headed by Mr. Miladin Kovacevic. What they said on the boards in 2019 about the increase in investment is somewhere they always apostrophe that somewhere in the health sector, the environment sector should go to the heart of what investment is about the building and we are here as a state, when you look at the investments, how much the hospital is building, how much of the infrastructure is going to build, whether it's because of the coves or because we recognize it might be one of the important segments in a society that needs to be developed, started it much earlier than the pandemic started. It's up to the citizens to assess that. It is important for us to have a committee on Monday on which we deliberately called alongside the Fiscal Council and the Ministry and Governors of the NBS and the President of the Co-ordination Body, which deals with GDP growth in the Republic of Serbia, Mr Kovacevic, and the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Chad, to simply discuss in a slightly wider forum many of the topics we have discussed so far and talk about and talk about the budget for 2021. Each of these representatives will have a chance to present his opinion before us. We therefore believe that the role of the Fiscal Council that will say is very important, we see that an evaluation is being sent when we talk about the 2021 budget, and of course we call on all the committee presidents and all the MPs, on Monday at 11.00 p.m. in the Small Hall to be present with all the epidemiological measures, that this kind of debate when it comes to the budget is fully opened and we say what we think. The fiscal council also talked about the subject that we have to talk about in society at some point in the day, which is pay grade. These are the problems that we, as a society, simply in those paying classes, are a lot of trouble, because it is very difficult to equalize an ambulance driver with a driver's salary, for example, in state institutions or in public enterprises. For us, it's a problem for all citizens and not just us, which is why when we talk about paying classes, in the future we're going to have a chance to have a really serious debate. On the basis of all these reports, we have had the opportunity to see how life in Serbia is going, and during the pandemic, what it looked like in 2019, before the pandemic, how much the Serbian Government and this Parliament have managed to deal with all the problems in society that are bothering us today, and therefore I believe that we have indeed accepted your reports as a Committee. Our decisions are to adopt your work reports, because they represent a picture of what you did in 2019. For us, some NGOs may feel that we as committees need to deal with certain conclusions in which we are going to give you certain tasks, certain solutions, to say which deadlines, to control the most executive power, but I think it is in our jurisdiction for us to accept your work reports or not to accept. It means that we are satisfied with the work of your institutions or that we are not satisfied with the work of your institutions. Therefore, what the Committee has made as decisions, I think it has made in accordance with its competences, in line with what the MPs are doing, and seeing the NGO sector on what needs to be done, I think it is in the Rules of Procedure, in what we are obliged as the competent committees of the Serbian Parliament to do. I think that, too, is the answer to certain exposure of some NGOs who may have criticised the committee's work in that part that we haven't done enough of your work in our conclusions. I think that we have really done the right thing by doing your work and your reports, and I think that today is actually the time to tell today's and tomorrow's session what it is in the society of citizens of Serbia, and us as MPs, because we are representatives of citizens, and what it is for you in the future of this year to improve in relation to the work of 2019. Therefore, it is the Committee's proposal to adopt your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1040	Thank you. Is there another person who wants a word? Dejan Damjanovic, deputy director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1041	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Vice President, I would first of all like to thank you on behalf of the Corruption Prevention Agency for giving us the opportunity to talk about the 2019 Work Report in plenary. I would also like to thank the MPs, Mrs Aleksandra Tomic, before I introduce you to the report, for recognising the role, importance and mandate of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and to thank you for, by adopting the new law, which came into force on 1 September this year, helping us to do a better and more effective job for which we are obliged and obliged to fulfil our obligations to Serbia and to all of you. I would say once again that we are glad that the Republic of Serbia and the Government and the Ministry of Finance and all the ministries that helped us and allowed us to increase the number of employees, which we are not yet because we do not have full capacity, but that we are working on it and that we are getting the budget, that we are seriously working on perfecting employees, that we are seriously working on improving our software solutions, our registers, which will be helpful above all, so that we can do quality and control and all possible checks, as we prefer to say rather than control, because it sounds so little horny, meaning that we can check all of that and that we can be there for all of you whenever it takes any help, in order for you to meet your obligations towards the Agency, or the Republic of Serbia, and that our preventive role really gets one true importance and place in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your support and for everything else, and we are here to do this, to listen to what you ask of us, because we are also giving you our report on the work because we want you to know everything and that, of course, every suggestion and everything that comes from here is being implemented to us, so that we can continue to fulfil our obligations in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1042	Thank you. Do any of the promoters want a word? The word is made by Marko Jankovic, president of the Securities Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Vice President, firstly to thank you for this opportunity to speak to you, in the context of the interpretation of our work reports for the previous year. I hope that this will be a new practice, since I think that the importance of the institutions that are in front of you today really deserves an opportunity to listen to what we had the opportunity to do in a previous period. First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Finance Committee, who launched the initiative that our institutions address the National Assembly and the Plenum Session. I will try to put as little pressure on you as possible on some of the factographic data from our report that you have had the opportunity to see in the paper version, and above all I will concentrate on some of the future activities that the Securities Commission will have, which may affect the further development of our economy, i.e. make a certain contribution to overcoming those difficulties that we have faced this year. I would just briefly refer to some of the data from 2019, particularly in the context of the financial part of meeting the plan that the Commission had. So, the total revenues achieved in that year amounted to around 74 million dinars, covering about 92% of total expenditure and about 19% less than planned revenues for that year. On the other hand, we made total expenditures at 80 million dinars, which is about 4% less than 2018, while at the same time about 23% less than planned expenditure for 2019. Simply, we have adapted to the current situation in the Serbian capital market, as the Securities Commission is financed from the fees it charges from participants in the market itself. As the chairman of the board also noted, in collaboration with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, we had the opportunity to amend our tariff regulation, which will significantly contribute to the future revenues of the Securities Commission, to further development of the institution itself. As has been said, the commission received significant new competencies in the previous period. First of all, by adopting the new Audit Act, where the quality control of audit houses is being moved from one professional body, from the Chamber of Authorised Auditors to the Committee on Securities of Values. At the same time, the controllers who worked until then had moved to the Committee on Securities of Values, which further strengthened one to say, the staff potential of the Commission itself, since it was one of the main requirements of the European Commission in some of our talks when closing negotiating chapters with them. So it was strengthening this administrative capacity of the institution itself and it was one step towards further strengthening the institution itself. Some of the new responsibilities also apply to the supervisory function on that stock market mentioned above. Finally, after, I would say, more than a decade of attempts, we were able to pass the Stock Exchange Act, on the basis of which the Commission received new supervisory powers. We work intensively with colleagues from the product market from Novi Sad, to apply the law in practice. The chairman of the Finance Committee also mentioned a law that, I hope, will soon be in front of all of you. It's about the Digital Property Act. Practically, that is one, I would say, an innovative law, which will try to raise Serbia to a level, to say, the most modern or most ambitious European countries in that domain. So, in co-operation with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia, we have tried to finally cover a very interesting and difficult matter with the legal framework in the Republic of Serbia, to enable, above all, new, small start-up companies to have access to innovative financing elections. I have to take advantage of the opportunity, and these tax laws will be in front of you in the coming period, to thank the colleagues of the Ministry of Finance for one very stimulating relationship with matter itself and with the tax incentives that will be subject to tax laws. So it's all something that, I hope, as one whole will contribute to further development of the capital market in the next period. What I would still like to announce to you, though it will be activities for next year, is the adoption of a new law on the capital market. So, it will be a brand-new one, I would say, revolutionary law for our capital market, in the context of full follow-up of the Serbian capital market with what we have in the European Union. We will simply try to remove through this process all the shortcomings that we have had the opportunity to identify in that previous period and enable the economy to access capital easier, not only through the banking sector which is strong and dominant in the Republic of Serbia, but also through some others, to say innovative, and we can say alternative, in the context of the Law on Alternative Investment Funds, which is also mentioned. So, the whole goal is to make this funding approach as simple as possible, to make it faster and more comprehensive, in order for these companies to develop small enterprises, micro and small enterprises, primarily through the presence of some fund vecers, in view of the consequences of the pandemic itself, but also in the future, to encourage the development of small enterprises, micro and small enterprises, primarily through the presence of some fund vecer capital, some further support of the state. What's up with us is that we create an adequate legislative framework that will make all of this possible and, as I said, I sincerely hope that by the third quarter of next year we will have a chance to talk about it again. Also, what I can say, and you will see that in the points to be discussed tomorrow, the Commission is trying to bring its work into line with the current situation on the market itself as a consequence of the pandemic. So what we did is we tried to try to make it easier for all those legal restrictions that existed during a previous period and allow companies not to feel, or to feel the consequences of the pandemic itself as little as possible. This has also been done through several amendments to the Capital Market Act itself. What I expect is that both these changes and additions will be found before you as soon as possible. So the whole goal of these changes and additions is to facilitate the procedure of issuing corporate bonds to make it easier for companies, with the support of the National Bank of Serbia and the business banks, to get the necessary funding in the next period. What is, to put it this way, one strategic state goal is to further encourage strategic projects, i.e. the development of domestic economy. Here, first of all, through this programme we are talking about medium and large enterprises that need their ambitions to realize not only on domestic but also on foreign markets. As for the Securities Commission, we will continue to try to help, in addition to this regulatory function and control of the capital market itself, as much as it is in our legal power, companies to continue to develop and continue this one trend of growth that is visible in the previous period. What we expect and what I'm sure we'll have on your side is one comprehensive support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1044	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Damjanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1045	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to thank the chairman of the Finance Committee, Mrs. Aleksandri Tomic, in my first address. Just to get on the line and say that we're glad that you recognize our importance and role. Now, in short, however, I would like to inform you of some details, although you have before you, I assume, our work report for the previous year. First of all, I would like to apologize to you on behalf of the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Dragan Sikimic, who has been prevented from attending today's meeting for health reasons. I am also pleased with the representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency: Marijana Obradović, Assistant Director in the Sector for Prevention and Strengthening Integrity, Katarina Pavicic, Assistant Director in the Policy Activity Finance Control Sector, Verka Atanasković, Assistant Director in the Sector for conflict of interest and lobbying issues and Natas Bozic, Assistant Director in the Property Verification Sector. In accordance with the then applicable Anti-Corruption Agency Act, the Agency, which has since 1 September of this year changed its name to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, submitted its tenth report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, which is before you today. We have reported on the results achieved in the past year and the challenges we have faced, and we have also addressed recommendations concerning both the strategic and regulatory framework for the fight against corruption and the application of mechanisms to prevent corruption and to strengthen the capacity of the agency itself. In the year after us, when we marked the 10th anniversary of work, we defined strategic directions for the period 2019-2023, in order to systematically improve capacities, strengthen co-operation at national and international level and, most importantly, continue to work openly to protect public interest. By strengthening institutional integrity, we also build their trust in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, I would stress the support of the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia, in the light of the necessary approvals for the employment of new people, as well as increased budgets, which is one of the key preconditions for the exercise of competences in an effective and efficient manner. Especially when it comes to the fact that in 2019 we started applying the Law on Lobbying, as well as that we were intensively preparing for 1 September 2020, i.e. the launch of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. I would like to inform you that the implementation of the Agency's basic budget was 94.9%, and the implementation of the Agency's overall budget with all projects was 94.26%, indicating successful planning and meaningful use of funds. The planned and approved budget for 2019 of 254,616,849,52 dinars was a developmental character. We have improved applications, added new functionality, created preconditions for more efficient data exchange with other state authorities and automated a number of business processes, which is a significant step towards achieving full digitisation, and thus even more successful implementation of our preventive, supervisory and control powers. Preventing corruption is not and cannot be successful without co-operation with all actors at national and international level, to which we are particularly committed. On this occasion, in addition to excellent co-operation with the National Assembly, I would also highlight the extremely successful and effective co-operation with the Ministry of Interior, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of European Integration, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Tax Administration, the State Audit Office, the special departments for the control of corruption by the MUP, senior public prosecutors and senior courts, as well as other competent state bodies, independent bodies, civil society organisations and media. In circumstances where corruption has long been a transnational phenomenon, a fundamental prerequisite for success in implementing prevention and anti-corruption mechanisms is appropriate international co-operation and the construction of sustainable partnerships. The international dimension of this fight also makes a significant contribution to the success of our national efforts and reform processes. Recognizing the importance of international co-operation in the field of prevention and fight against corruption, the Agency is making continuous efforts to strengthen existing and identify new opportunities to exchange experiences and knowledge with related institutions. In this process, we always manage the fact that European integration is the strategic priority of the Republic of Serbia, and all forms of co-operation have been achieved in that light, including the already mentioned successful coordination with national state institutions and other relevant actors. In the domain of international co-operation, the Agency notes significant successes, which you have had the opportunity to inform yourself from the Annual Report. On this occasion, I would just point out that two years in a row we were elected Vice-President of the Global Network of Corruption Prevention Institutions, whose founders we were in 2018, at the invitation of the Italian National Anti-Corruption Agency. At the end of 2019, for the second time, we were elected vice-president of the network, chaired by the Anti-Corruption Agency of France in 2020, and the other two vice-presidents are the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Italy and the National Agency for Honesty, Prevention and Combating Corruption Morocco. The network currently gathers anti-corruption bodies from 29 countries around the world, along with one observational and four partner institutions. I would also point out the very important support of the Agency's activities provided by international partners in 2019: the European Union, USAID Project for Responsible Authority, the OSCE Mission in Serbia, the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR), the US Ministry of Justice, the International Foundation for Election Systems, as well as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the International Exchange and Co-operation of Slovakia. We also continued co-operation with the National Assembly, through the National Branch of the Global Anti-Corruption Organisation (GOPAK), under the project "Increasing the Supervisory Role and the Public in the Work of the National Assembly", which is supported by both the UNDP and the Swiss Development and Co-operation Agency. The individual competences and results of the Agency are contained in the Annual Report, and I will refer only to a few key data. In 2019, we produced a report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, with an assessment of the implementation of all activities from the revised Action Plan for its implementation, for the period from 2016 to 2018. The highest value of this report is seen in that all information relating to the implementation of the planned activities carried out by the authorities within 14 areas covered by the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and accompanying action plans has been synthesized in one place. In addition, this report also points to common characteristics, trends seen during implementation and monitoring, implementation of strategic documents, which can certainly be important in the process of planning future public policies in this area. We also followed the implementation of one of the most significant mechanisms to prevent corruption at institutional level, namely through an integrity plan, through reports submitted by the authorities to the Agency, and through the control of these documents in selected institutions. In the domain of controlling the financing of political activities, the Agency controlled a report by 30 political entities in 2019 on the cost of an election campaign for the election of councils of municipalities: Doljevac, Kula, Kladovo, Luciani and Presevo. We also carried out the control of 32 annual financial reports of political entities for 2018. Due to infringement of the Law on the financing of political activity, the Agency has filed 96 requests for the initiation of criminal proceedings before the competent court against political parties and responsible persons in political parties, or responsible persons, groups of citizens. Two reports have also been filed to competent prosecutors on suspicion that the responsible persons in political entities have committed crimes. Based on the judicial rulings, 59 decisions have been made on the loss of the right to obtain funds from public sources intended to finance regular work for 2020. When it comes to preventing and resolving conflicts of interest in the performance of public functions, the results show that public authorities carried out final decisions by the Agency to which the other public function ceases by law, while public officials ceased to act as the second public office of the Agency in 95.56% of the cases, indicating the strengthening of the personal integrity of public officials, the integrity of institutions, as well as the recognition and strengthening of the awareness of the Agency as the sole state body that resolves the conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. The Agency has also welcomed a completely new jurisdiction, i.e. the application of the Law on Lobbying, and has timely adopted sublaws such as the Code of Conduct of Participants in Lobbying, which includes ethical rules for all participants in the lobbying process, the Rules on the look and content of the forms, the requirements of the report, notices, records and the way in which the registers are kept and the specific records in the lobbying process, as well as the Regulation on the training programme for lobbyists. We have also established new registers in accordance with the Law on Lobbying, namely: Register of lobbyists, Register of legal persons performing lobbying and special records on foreign natural and legal persons performing lobbying. On this occasion, I would also inform you that the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe (GREKO) has positively assessed this law and the efforts of the Republic of Serbia in this area in a second report on compliance for the Republic of Serbia and the fourth round of evaluations covering the prevention of corruption in relation to MPs, judges and prosecutors, and was adopted at the plenary GRECO session in October this year. During 2019, in accordance with the Annual Check Plan of the Report on the Property and Income of Public Functions, a review of the report was carried out for 233 directors and V.D. Directors of public enterprises and economic operators of current and previous entities whose founders, i.e. members of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and local self-government units, while 10 extraordinary checks were launched during the same period, on the grounds that no accurate and complete data were reported in the officials' property and income reports. In addition to the measures imposed by the Agency for the Infringement of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, as well as the initiation of criminal proceedings to competent prosecutors, a total of 25 criminal charges and reports have been filed on grounds of suspicion that officials, in order to cover up the property, have not provided the Agency with or have provided false information on the property. We also developed a methodology for prioritizing the report of the officials that the Agency will check. We have improved the efficiency of data input into the Register of Assets and Income of Public Functions and processed 8,314 property and income reports. We have also acted on the concepts in which applicants point to corruptive actions in the way public authorities or public officials work and act, a state official in office. The structure of the new plays recorded in the report period shows that 75 plays were from the field of education, 61 from local self-government, 53 from the judiciary, 45 from public finances, 45 from health care, 21 from construction and urbanism, 33 from the field of labour and social policy, 14 from the economy, two from the field of mining and energy, eight from the area of police, one from the culture and information of the media, four from the field of sport, as well as 11 performances assessed as messy, i.e. by which the Agency is not competent to act. In this area, we have also completed the proceedings in 680 cases, and we have submitted 10 reports to the competent prosecutors on the grounds of the existence of a suspicion of committing a crime. Intensive co-operation has also been achieved with the media, as well as with civil society organisations. We have successfully implemented a programme for the implementation of a project aimed at strengthening the integrity, public responsibility and transparency of the work of the public authorities. The 1.500,000 dinar funds were allocated to the Vienna Youth Association for the implementation of a project titled "Together to a More Transparent and Responsible Authority". We have also conducted analyses and research, and I would like to mention, on this occasion, comparative legal research and analysis of the ethical codes of MPs, comparative legal research of positions, anti-corruption institutions in the region, research and analysis of the specificities and forms of corruption in the Republic of Serbia, and research and analysis entitled "The trend of violations of the law in the area of preventing conflicts of interest and incompatibility of functions according to the final decisions of the Agency". The Agency's second-degree body adopted reports on the work of the Agency for 2018, a draft financial plan for 2020 with a projection of 2021 and 2022, a positive opinion on the adoption of a Regulation on the internal organisation and systematisation of posts in the Agency's service with patterns, competence for all posts, and the supervisory role of the review of written monthly reports, as well as the oral reporting of the Agency's work at its meetings as a second-degree body in 2019. As regards the complaints made during 2019, the Committee resolved 109 complaints, 101 of which refused, four first-degree resolutions were annulled, and two partially annulled while the case was returned for two complaints. When it comes to the cases brought before the Board for the annulment of the decision during the reporting period, the Administrative Court delivered to the Committee 37 decisions, 35 rulings and two resolutions, of which six officials were respected and cases returned to the Committee for Redecision, and the other services were rejected, rejected or suspended before the Administrative Court. Since one of the key institutions in the area of preventing corruption, the Agency, as an independent and independent state body, is making serious efforts to implement preventive control and supervisory powers, thus providing a significant contribution to the protection of public interest, the construction of the regime, individual and institutional integrity, as well as to strengthening transparency and accountability in the work of public administration. Finally, I would add that we remain committed to the continued improvement of efficiency and efficiency with the aim of even more successful application and promotion of mechanisms, preventing corruption, as well as strengthening the confidence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in our work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1046	Thank you. Since none of the proposing representatives are answering for a word anymore, we are moving on to authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The president of the JS parliamentary group Dragan Markovic Palma has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1047	Dear ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the committees present at today's session, JS will vote for the reports you have submitted, but I would also like to point out, not to remarks or objections, but to something that has been happening in recent years, and that Serbian citizens cannot understand or at some point say that a report of the Fiscal Council differs from the IMF report. When it comes to pensions, wages, then that vacuum happens. The opinion of the Fiscal Council and the realisation of the state, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether pensions will be increased or not. What are these arguments? What are the facts? What methodology does the Fiscal Council do? There are a lot of professional people there, and in the future time period, not to use what the IMF says as a report on what Serbia is doing, but also the fact that there are new jobs, that today we have fewer users, and more taxpayers, which was not the case in 2018, 2019, means that year by year, there is an increase, and whenever I listen to the Fiscal Council report, there is a certain observation. Whether it's well-intentioned or not, I'm not saying it isn't, but they're deluded by those who expect their pensions or salaries to be increased. What else does the Fiscal Council need to pay attention to, what? What is it called an entity, a private entrepreneur, and those who pay this country taxes? Sometimes when you take chalk, and today it's something called a feasibility study. And based on a feasibility study, that entity or client, as they call it, gets consent or doesn't get credit. Today it's very different. Today, the company's credit rating is a positive final account, and 99% of the companies have been operating with a credit rating since the euro rate rests, the stability of the dinars. What's important about bookkeeping? That's why fiscal advice should be dealt with and I won't say it's a problem, but it's something that prevents or gives someone the future from being a user of large loans, and that the bonus doesn't stand exactly as he wrote in the request. So the accounting value, and you know it, is always less than the market value several times. That could've been up to 2012/2013. For years, today the value of capital and does not fall the value of capital as it once fell the value of capital. Today depreciation is applied as applied 20, 30 years ago. You can't apply the same depreciation accounting to what's called the entity's capital, factories that don't work, I don't know, at the capacity of 5% and factories that work at 100% capacity. So we need to see how we're going to increase that depreciation and not happen, and sometimes the market value of capital is less than the building value. And who's got the biggest damage there? There's damage and state, there's damage and the owner of the company. This is what I'm saying as someone who's been a businessman for 40 years and I'm speaking from practice. It bothered me two or three times, but if the UK put us on the market, we have to use it. Securities of value, 98% of Serbian citizens do not know what securities are of value. Not that they don't know people, but they just don't care. We need to get to know the citizens what securities are of value. And it's like an elemental accident. The elemental accident of the agricultural producer sows its product, hits the city and destroys it all but in economic terms we have no elemental disaster. So, all of us were recognised by both the IMF and those who determine on the basis of which Serbia is going up when it comes to gross social product, and in particular, it is important for the Fiscal Council, at the moment when economic powers, giants such as strong European countries, have less GDP growth than Serbia, because Serbia has created good conditions for both investors to come and for those who are domestic investors, i.e. live in Serbia and have Serbian citizenship. The great help of the state is what she gave 30,000 and twice 18 thousand dinars three times, because then if they had asked the Fiscal Council, the Fiscal Council would have said – let's wait a little while. But life doesn't have time to wait. You know, when you invest in something called life, and it's not in something called a car, you buy expensive cars, like it happens in Serbia, a purse, Mercedes, and I don't know what it is and it's a scam to make big contracts. Speaking of purses, bows and expensive cars, we have a law on public procurement that's very good, but it has two flaws. That someone will, and that's what's called a commission job, that's to fight corruption, recruit people, those producers, when they go out for a tender, and then they blackmail them and complain, I'm banging, because there's a word "maybe" in the tender documentation, and then there's three months of consent, that's to say the commission's report whether, when it comes to public procurement, it's right or not, who's losing it? They're losing everyone. For example, when it comes to infrastructure, if you file a complaint for some time and that appeal is waiting for three months, we enter in winter, we cannot finish the job we need to finish, it is common in Serbia, to know that the commission and the competent authorities are involved, who are 15 entities doing it all the time. Come on when it comes to merchants, but they're also blackmailing producers to have a certain percentage for it. If they don't have a percentage, then they'll complain and that appeal extends the delivery deadline, etc., and someone may have taken the bank's guarantee, and the bank's guarantee costs to get that job. The public procurement agency has to see the same thing as the entity that went to the tender. It's not the subject who made the most favourable offer and has 20 employees, and this company was built two years ago, three, without any experience except for one job that concerns the performance of the works where the entity went to the tender. This is a huge problem in Serbia, respected members of the Commission, a huge problem, as I am sure 10% of the country's economic development is just preventing the gap in the law when it comes to public procurement. I'd like someone to explain to me what's waiting for three months? What? And then the subject who made the remark said, "I have men and I don't know what, so you will see." Surely none of you do, but they abuse. So you're supposed to make a statement -- where it happens in a town, that and that, you have to report it. Watch out, the Agency of Conflict of Interest or whatever it is called, the gentleman who spoke, the Anti-Corruption Agency, he lists four municipalities of the poor as they broke... Do you understand? Four poor municipalities in the election campaign, because they spent, I don't know, 700 euros more or less. Let's go to these big beasts, to be our subject, but the subject of material evidence, and not in the report, I don't know -- here we are, and we've done it and now these poor municipalities or these parties that don't have money, and they haven't even crossed the censorship, where they're going to pay a certain penalty. I'm not against not paying, but I expected in this report that the great ones who break, I'm sure, the law, that they be an example and that their names and names of their companies be made public. I don't want to be a cop, I don't want to point my finger at someone, but I'm a man of my life and I know very well how it works today and if you as a Commission, if someone asked me what grade to give you, I'd give you five, you fight well, but based on the hole in the law, I want to see if this, when it comes to public procurement, someone's gonna deal with this topic and see who's the 20 that's competing, and it's not his main activity in the company what he's up to the tender. Once upon a time, gentlemen, you couldn't get out on a public procurement tender if you had a transport company and construction. You can't. Today, a vulcanizer can come out and offer yogurt and sour milk to sell. Do you understand? I'm glad you understand me and you understand me, but you're kind of the mirror of this country. The Wolf can be torn off, not to sleep for days, but you who work and you who report, must say – gentlemen, that and that problem exist. I would like the President of the Fiscal Council to explain to me that these are the diametrically contrary to your reports and IMF reports. We know what the IMF reported on Serbia in the past years, that we were getting that -- sitting down, 1 or enough 2, and now being in the first four most powerful countries in the world. Don't forget that there's something called a state of emergency, and when you have an emergency, then you have a new investment. The emergency is this bastard, which I avoid even talking about, because enough scares the people of others who talk about it. And consider that and say, you of the Fiscal Council... I've never heard you commend the government. I don't want to brag about anything if something's wrong, but let's say, gentlemen, it wasn't in the plan of 2019 to create two clinical centres where we're going to treat people, we don't have room to treat those who are suffering from other diseases, we did it... That's not what we have in the gulf. The budget is a real plan – a watery and effluent side and in order to avoid having a deficit, because we are used to having a surplus for many years. That's what the Fiscal Council should say publicly and say – well done, here, you've given 10,000 dinars, when you say it has weight, by 10,000 dinars to health employees. It may be small, but other states have given nothing. Now somebody's gonna say, "Yeah, there's bigger wages there." Well, there were always bigger salaries, and here the salaries were half less than in health care six, seven, eight years ago. It is in some way, when you say, one comfort, that people sleep peacefully, to say – Croatia is in charge of the head of the population so much and so much, Italy is one of the most indebted states in the head of the population so much and so much. President of the Fiscal Council, if you don't have one, I can deliver in two minutes. Maybe you're not ready for this kind of question. Let me tell you, I'm different from the others. I'm not "nyah-nyah-nyah". Do you understand? I want you to understand me and every man who sees this congregation. Look, I haven't read anything. (The People's Messenger throws out of place: "Well, look! ) Here, this one to ask now what is a paper of value, this one that casts, and what is the value of paper of value, he will say – red is a little more expensive paper than value, and blue is a little cheaper, the one who throws. Do you understand? It's the easiest to throw. Take it, my friend, a word, and speak, and point out the facts, the arguments, what is it that you think, that no one writes you a speech. How would the people understand you? I'm sorry, and I don't know what that means now that a colleague of mine throws something away? I look forward to someone saying something nice. I say, good for him! There are a lot of good MPs here and with experience, but just because you've said something better than me now, and I'm gonna throw it to you – well, you're gonna tell me. Let it go more - you'll tell me. We now need to be unique, to fight something that the whole world is fighting against, and we don't know how long it's gonna last. I live in a 12-member family, four generations and I know very well about every generation of what to do, but not for mine, but for those who live across the street from me, for those who live in Belgrade, Vranj, Leskovac, and I would like each of them to have two employees. If father and mother have three children, work both. That's what this country does, creates new jobs. Look, now that the whole world is afraid of Corona, foreign investors are coming to Serbia. Here, two foreign investors came to Jagodin. I am opening a German factory called "Viber" and will employ 350 workers. So they found Serbia as the safest state in the Balkans to dislocate their capital from Germany's most powerful. In the context of the circumstances, they came to Jagodin, but thanks to this country's policy in international relations, that international popularity, in every sense of that word, which this country has, we must take advantage of you who are civil servants and you who are in independent bodies and agencies and all together to say what we think. In this country, everyone can say what they think, but what they say must have a certain weight rather than say that I hate two people in Serbia and that is my political and economic and social programme and international, etc. Thank God, this council doesn't do that. We are dealing with how to help, each of us, to do something good for all citizens living in Serbia. I, as a man living in the country, have a different opinion. Let me tell you, as a man who doesn't have tongue hair, I didn't catch myself slapping, that I have to say now to hear someone out there say that I am now praising the president or anyone, that I don't think so. I'm just saying what I think and what I think. Someone's estimating it. I don't insult anyone, but I am giving myself the right to have my autonomy. The one who doesn't have his autonomy should go to look after the goats and deal with it. Thank you. I apologize to the members of the Commission, I didn't have anything personal when it comes to you, but it's simply my view and my remark on something called the Fiscal Council and the Anti-crime Agency and on securities of value, etc. A unique Serbia will vote for the Commission's reports on the agenda today. I'd like to be answered by the President of the Fiscal Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1048	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word came from Mr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1049	I thank Mr. Markovic. I see he's also closely following the work of the Fiscal Council, which is some purpose of our work, to find an echo with the MPs. Mr. Markovic has launched many important topics. I agree with part of it, and part of it belongs to the Fiscal Council, and part of it doesn't belong. As far as private entities are concerned, accounting, depreciation, these are very important topics, but they are not in the jurisdiction of the Fiscal Council and we are prepared to help those who do so. The first topic was about retirement. The position of the Fiscal Council on pensions. Our position is for two years that pensions should be regulated by law, i.e. The indexation of pensions should be regulated by law, not by ad hoc and as a result of our initiatives and initiatives of others, this Swiss formula has been introduced. The fiscal council offered a range of solutions, and then the government chose a Swiss formula from that leprechaun, where 50-50 salaries and inflations were made. That's the law now. We welcome that law is now constantly being applied. The result of this in 2021 will be that pensions will increase almost 6%. In economic terms, this is more growth than the economy could handle in 2021, but in its estimates, the Fiscal Council took the view that the law and that rule should be followed, even if the temporary pensions increase more than the economic power, which will be the case in 2021. Also, when the time comes and the rule says that in some extremely good times the pension may increase less than business activity, but the law and the formulas still need to be followed. So that's our retirement attitude. The second question was about opinion, differentiation between the Fiscal Council and the IMF. It is good that we differ because we are not two different institutions and we cannot all agree that our opinions match, but let's say about this Swiss formula and the IMF has accepted that, that it is good to introduce it under 1) the principle that there is a legal regulation of the indexation of pensions, rather than an ad hoc discretion each year, and the IMF also agreed with this Swiss formula, so you can see that there is one part of the consensus there. The second part is about this budget for 2021, and as far as I understand Mrs. Tomic's being discussed on Monday, so here's Mr. Markovic, come, then we can talk more specifically about the individual aspects of what our position is, what the IMF is and there's no such big difference as you think. I would especially like to say about this government policy this year. So it's anti-crisis politics. That's what you were saying about the minimal and the other aid that, one package was in April, the other in August of the month. That's where you said the Fiscal Council wouldn't have come to that. On the contrary, as soon as the crisis broke out, it means in early March 2020, first of all, we came out with a statement that given this kind of crisis, the government should be free to go into debt and a major deficit to paralyze this crisis, because now I'm talking about the economic crisis as a result of the health crisis, because if it didn't do the economic consequences would be far worse and ultimately it would cost a lot more. So that's what we went out first in March before everyone else. Then when the government brought the package, I think it was the end of March-beginning April, we supported that package. So, not that we said we were against it, but we supported it. Finally, when the government brought a new package of measures in August, we also supported this package, but we only said that the error was what in August when it was already time, this package was not targeted - Why were the funds distributed to everyone? In April, it was justified, because it was urgent, the house burned down and you didn't have the exact information where money was most needed, so it was given to everyone. By August, an analysis could be made and only the first announcements in the government were made by Minister Cynthia Malo and Chamber of Commerce Chairman Chad, that August's package would be targeted and then one of the packages gave up. As far as duty is concerned -- it's a very important topic, I'm glad you started it, Serbia is now at 60%, but it's a high level for Serbia. That's justified, because it was a crisis. It was supposed to be in debt, it was supposed to react to the crisis, but that's why in 2021 and beyond, 2022, 2023, it's supposed to be such a policy that this debt starts to decrease, because then it's going to mean less interest rates that we have to pay and less interest expenditure that we have to have for it. I think that's what I could say right now. On Monday, there would be more opportunities to look more closely at these economic topics that would, of course, benefit us, too, given your experience in the real economy or in the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1050	Thank you. Replica, Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1051	I have nothing to take away, nor to add what the gentleman said, except that I'm glad he changed his mind and opinion, because he was against borrowing earlier years. Now that we look at how much other countries owe, we're still a country that has a bonus for that kind of thing. I would like to be answered by the President of the Anti-Corruption and Public Procurement Commission, those remarks that I have had, will these objections look at and what are we going to do and what are the measures so that such things do not happen in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1052	Just a minute. Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Now sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1053	No, I haven't changed my mind, it's just circumstances have changed. That's exactly what it is, and I'm glad we're discussing this fundamental issue. The commitment of the Fiscal Council to lower the debt, below 50%, below 40% of GDP, is precisely because of the situation we had in 2020, because when the crisis comes, you have the space to make a deficit, to be in charge of decent interest rates and not to be over-indebted. And you've reached 60%. Now that the quiet times are coming, we need to reduce the debt below 50% and 45% again, that the next crisis that will come when we're ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1054	The word is Mr. Dragan Markovic Palm. .
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1055	Thank you for your answer. I just have one more question for you, as the man I highly appreciate, that you are a great economic expert – is it better now in an economic fiscal sense or seven years ago and in percentages how much better this is, but don't get out of your mind that we've had floods and we've had and we have an evil called the crown? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1056	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1057	The worst situation was in 2014. At that time, the deficit was two billion and some euros, while the debt was about 71% compared to GDP. In 2015, 2016 and 2017, they represent years of exceptional fiscal stabilisation, when the deficit of two billion and some euro deficit fell to zero, plus - minus. So it's a big breakthrough. But, and I'm glad you're setting it up, that success once achieved doesn't have to be easily dropped. The crisis is, in debt, pay, but think of the next two, three years to get back into that situation where we would have a practically balanced budget and a falling public debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1058	Thank you. The deputy director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Mr. Dejan Damjanovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1059	Mr. Markovic, let me brief you on this. As for the place we counted as the venues, these are the places where the elections were held in 2019. I didn't say there were irregularities here. I said we controlled those four cities. It was also our preparation for the republican elections. We controlled their work. Those procedures take a long time, I must tell you. As far as what you've mentioned big beasts are concerned, we're doing all of it very well and we're checking it out, only that when a party enters the process, it sometimes takes a long time, this correspondence with them, until we get all the valid data that is important to us and when we come in, when we complete all of this, we decide whether or not we start the procedure. What's very important is that the law doesn't allow us to say anything as long as it takes, so-called. A previous procedure in which we address whether some state bodies, whether it's about the bank's funding control or someone who's funded it, where there's some kind of misunderstanding. It's an entirely one process that lasts. That's why ageing deadlines are long, five years long, which means that we can do it in this long period of quality, not make some failure and come under the influence of the law, especially who's smaller or the association of citizens, so it turns out that we train on such ones. No, we're doing everything equally, whether it's the big parties, whether they're, as you say, the big beasts. There's no such thing as a difference between us. It's just that the procedure is a little longer and he's demanding one patience, and we're working. How can I tell you, we communicate with everyone and at the time when the time comes we inform the public about it and whether we're going to initiate a misdemeanor procedure, if there's any grounds to initiate any criminal proceedings. You heard that a number of parties were not funded this year because of the violations they committed. Let me tell you, it's something that lasts. The law is new. All of us, as I say, adapt ourselves to this and introduce it to both the party and the leaders, and at all the responsible persons, to understand what their obligations are to the law and to act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1060	Thank you. Vice-President of the Commission for Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, Ms Vesna Gojkovic Milin, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1061	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I thank you for your attention, and I thank you for your remarks. Thank you for your support for our work. Thank you for voting in favour of the report of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Our report comprehensively presents the data on our work, and Mrs Tomic, on behalf of the board of directors, presented the data we presented quite in detail. What I can say about the information that you have mentioned here is that, in the circumstances that have now taken place in 2020, the Republic Commission has continued this positive trend of cutting deadlines, that it has held 276 sessions in this year, solved 739 cases relating to rights protection requirements and that 71% of decisions have been made within the legal deadlines. The Republic Commission is aware, it was aware of the delay in decision-making years earlier, but as all conditions were obtained, with significant support from Parliament and with full composition of the Republic Commission, deadlines began to be reduced noticeably and this is as Mrs Tomic said by the expert mission and in the framework of the European Commission's report it was highlighted as progress in Chapter Five itself. We will continue to apply in these circumstances with the start of the new Public Procurement Act, which was adopted in December 2019 in front of this representative home, and started to apply in 2020, we will continue to work and to try to create a secure legal environment for interested economic operators, an effective and effective system of law protection, which is our role as an independent body, and on the other hand, to create a legal environment for contracting entities that could, in such circumstances, be more efficient in implementing public procurement procedures, which, in the end, impact on meeting the needs of a large number of people who use public sector services. We accept all the remarks you've made, and we'll try to act in our work as successfully as possible. I would like to thank you once again on behalf of the President of the Republic Commission and the members of the Replica Commission for your confidence and for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1062	Thank you, Mrs. Milin. Mr Marko Jankovic, President of the Securities Commission, will come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1063	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, you haven't asked me a specific question, but I just wanted to look back on one part of your initial discussion, apropo, a paper of value, that is, this accounting treatment you mentioned, since I was a member of the Working Group for the Amendments of the Accounting Act, or the Audit Act. So, finally, in the two 2019s, we managed to bring domestic legislation fully into line with international accounting standards. I can feel free to say that we are now absolutely up to date applying these international standards, but I understand that there are practical problems in applying certain standards, and I would just suggest that we find some form that the National Assembly, whether through the Finance Committee, or by some representative whom the National Assembly has appointed, can you contact the National Accounting Commission, to say that it is more detailed in this matter and we could open these topics, to try to find adequate answers to these practical problems. What my commission also faces in its, let's say, practical treatment is that in certain procedures we have diametrically different, accounting, market and estimated value of certain capital, let's say, public societies. We've been dealing with finding ways to avoid such a problem for several years. I can also announce for the next year the amendments to certain relevant laws for our actions in this regard, so that we can be able to react in situations when we see, let me say, obvious differences between those data that are presented to us. I have to say it's not as simple as it may sound, but we'll try to find the best European practice and transfer it to our actions in that sense. And let me look back at what you said about the education of citizens on values charters, so you're absolutely right, it's a challenge not only for our country, but I would say, for all European countries, simply, the capital market, or knowledge of investment opportunities in securities of value, are significantly less than in some other most developed markets, let's say, American. What I would say is, all of us, and we are going to support on our part every initiative that comes from the National Assembly, is to develop an innovative, modern programme, citizens' education on values, and investment opportunities on the capital market, so that we don't get this situation that you mentioned and compared that market with tsunami, and the agricultural product market. So what we're trying to do, and this is what the Commission will do in the next period as a stock market regulator, i.e. trade in the stock market, is that these tsunamis are not happening to us, or to find mechanisms to stop these tsunamis, and that they, as I say, do not come into existence, but also to contribute to this one education of wider layers of the population that companies, above all, have access to a healthy, and to say, a sustainable capital market, where everyone will recognise their interest. So, to invest citizens, companies in an adequate way finance their business. I'm saying again, it's all a very complex process, I'm afraid that some heritage from some previous times has made this job perhaps even more difficult than it would have been, to say, in a normal environment. What we're going to do for sure in the coming years is one of those frameworks in which we're going to say, educate the citizens, but also the owners of companies, so we're going to explain to them what options are available to them. So, through one broad education, we allow everyone to make their business more productive and thus further accelerate the growth of the domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1064	The word is Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1065	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished representatives of independent regulatory flights, SDPS Rasim Ljajic supports European values, according to which independent regulatory bodies have been formed. Today we have the annual reports of independent and independent state organisations, whose primary task is the legal, fair and transparent availability of public resources, the functioning of the capital market, the responsible conduct of fiscal policy and the protection of rights in public procurement procedures. The report for 2019 is about the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Fiscal Council, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and the Securities Commission. It is an independent and regulatory body whose role is advisory, but these bodies also play a supervisory role. Independent regulatory bodies must operate in accordance with laws and other legal acts, but are not above the law. These bodies are responsible to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for carrying out their duties under their jurisdiction. What I want to point out and particularly welcome is that reports on the work of independent state bodies are also being discussed in the plural, not just at committee meetings, which was the case before. It is a sign that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its MPs give full support to these bodies. I'm not going to deal with other bodies, I'm going to pay attention to the Anti-Corruption Agency. We have a report for 2019 ahead and I found it interesting in this report to check the revenues and assets of public officials that in 2019, the annual plan included 223 officials, directors and V.D. Director of public enterprises and business entities, whose founders are Republika Srpska, AP Vojvodina and local self-government units. The review of 212 officials has been completed and 74 proceedings have been initiated for violations of the provisions of the Act on the Agency. Of this, 63 proceedings against officials who perform public functions at the republic's level, ministers, ministerial assistants, MPs, directors of public enterprises and business entities whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP Vojvodina, as well as judges, prosecutors, state secretaries and 11 proceedings against officials operating at the local level. So the director of public enterprises, the president of municipalities and the chairman of boards of directors. 63 measures have been imposed after the procedures have been initiated. It can be concluded from the above that there were no advantages. It is similar in preventing conflicts of interest in performing public functions. There were no privileges either in the procedures, nor in the measures, although the report notes that the function is higher, thus reducing the number of measures. I find it important that the Agency, in order to prevent the first and most important steps to successfully combat the problem of corruption, has adopted a special programme of professional training of public sector employees in the area of prevention of corruption. The agency also developed a model of a local anti-corruption plan that adopted 118 cities and municipalities, and 28 cities and municipalities formed a body to monitor the application of the local anti-corruption plan. As this report for 2019, when the Agency was named Anti-Corruption Agency and by applying the new law since September, the Agency continues its work as the Anti-Corruption Agency, right. I will not talk about the report, but I want to say that it is known that the fight against corruption is a basic precondition for Serbia as a candidate country for EU accession. The Serbian government has tasked itself with zero tolerance for corruption. However, Serbia takes 91 seats from 180 countries according to the 2019 corruption perception index, according to the Transparency International Agency. The corruption perception index shows that two thirds of countries, including some of the world's most developed economies, are stagnating or turning back on efforts to combat corruption. We can therefore conclude that there is no easy task in front of Serbia and that additional efforts and resources must be made to minimise corruption. The European Commission's 2019 report on Serbia states that corruption is everywhere in many spheres and continues to worry. Strong political will is needed to address the problem of corruption effectively, as well as a strong response from the prosecution and the judiciary in cases of particularly high corruption. Serbia should especially improve concrete results when it comes to investigations, indictments and judicial rulings in cases of high corruption. In any case, we will see in the next report for 2020 whether the new Law on the Prevention of Corruption and EU Recommendations produced results. We are here to make our full contribution and support to the Anti-Corruption Agency, in order to make its measures more effective and efficient. We, the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, will always support the work of independent regulatory bodies, their independence and the right to sometimes differ from the authorities. But we'll never support their politicization. In the voting day, we will vote for the adoption of the report on the work of independent regulatory bodies for 2019.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1066	Ladies and gentlemen, you have received the resignations of the MPs of Anna Maria Vicek and Attila Juhas as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the member from Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of these Members of Parliaments. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which the MPs Ana Maria Vicek and Attila Juhas were elected on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1067	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, the respected representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Fiscal Council, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement Procedures, the Securities Commission, the esteemed colleague Tomic, will join us, for justifiable reasons, not presently. What I want to say at the very beginning is that we have great respect for the work of the Finance Committee as a Parliament club, one serious, responsible and dedicated work of the Finance Committee. I know how it worked in the previous meeting, and I had the opportunity to participate in the work of the Finance Committee. Of course we will also accept that we will support as a parliamentary group of conclusions of the Finance Committee and, of course, that they are formulated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that there is no need to pay too much attention to the views, I think, of certain organisations coming from the NGO sector, that the Committee should give certain views, suggestions and suggestions. No, the Committee, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, accepts or refuses to accept a report on the work of independent bodies. So, you will have support in the voting day certainly, according to the Financial Committee's decision, but we also think that today's debate and the opportunity to discuss the work of independent bodies, to discuss certain views, certain analyses that could be heard in particular, we are talking about 2019, but for us it is very important this year in 2020, because there are some views, Mr Markovic said that we have autonomy so we use this autonomy and we want to make some views that are contrary to the views of certain independent institutions. So we certainly think that this kind of debate can be useful. For example, the Fiscal Council is an independent body, and we do not want in any way to influence or pressure the work of the Fiscal Council, the views and opinions of the Fiscal Council, but we are certainly ready for an open dialogue, a debate, and the committee sessions and here at the tide, which is of great importance and importance, which we are talking about here in the tide, and not just at committee sessions. I repeat, we believe that this is useful, especially when we listen to analyses and attitudes concerning life issues, which concern specific issues aimed at the lives of our citizens, which could be heard during this year 2019. Independent institutions do not always have the same opinion as the ruling coalition. That's not controversial. Because if they were to think the same about all things, then the question could be asked – well, what are independent institutions for, what is the purpose of the existence of independent institutions? If we all think the same thing, we don't think enough at all, and that's not good. But here's the point of something else. The point here is that each of us needs to do his job and everyone has a certain responsibility, which is very clear and precisely defined by law, and I don't think that each of us should, in any way, cross that red line of responsibility, but do the job in accordance with what is his responsibility. Let’s say, if the Fiscal Council says that the Assembly adopts laws or adopts laws that violate economic order, then we can ask a question as MPs – well, is it a question and a dilemma to be opened by the Fiscal Council? The fiscal council, as well as other representatives of independent institutions, should understand that against themselves today they have MPs and MPs who have the legitimacy and trust of citizens, who have a responsibility to citizens, whose obligation and task is to adopt laws and exclusively to adopt these legal proposals correspond to citizens. A narrow professional policy, I'd say, is a good one, but it's not a magic wand. It showed the time behind us. The time behind us has denied numerous analyses and numerous attitudes that could be heard. Don't get me wrong, but it's easy to run politics from comfortable chairs, deal with analysis, reports, and reality is something else, when you come and talk to citizens. Life is something else. I agree, we need to deal with numbers. The numbers are important. But what do the figures mean if on the other hand we have the dissatisfaction of citizens, when we are specifically talking about the standard of living of citizens, and that is our responsibility, and that is our obligation, us who have received the legitimacy and trust of citizens. We are the voice of the people, us 250 here in Parliament. So this is about people, not just dry numbers. That, as I would say, is a living policy and that is something far more important and far more important than any report, than any analysis that, in the most part of the previous time period, has denied time. We talked about pensions for a while. I remember, if good memory serves me, and I think it still serves me, in 2014, the Fiscal Council had an attitude to come up with a drastic reduction in wages and pensions, because we're going towards a financial collapse or chaos, as it was then defined, and two or three years later, the Fiscal Council asked for those same salaries and pensions to be returned to the same level. What's the role of the Council? The Council's role is to give a budget assessment to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to come up with certain data, views that will be in agreement or will not be in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that's about the end of their story, in fact their responsibility. Is the fiscal council able to communicate with the government? I have had the opportunity to listen to the discussion of the representatives of the Fiscal Council with the finance minister, and in the previous time period through the report's analysis, we follow closely the work of the Fiscal Council, read and analyze when it comes to the rebalancing adopted in April, read and analyze when it comes to the rebalancing that was adopted in November, and something different today is a story compared to what we could read in those reports both in April and November. Here's where I see the difference, but first I'm gonna go back to this. Is the fiscal council able to communicate with the government this way? I don't think so. We can do this because we are MPs, we have chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia, chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia and have a control and supervisory function, as the highest body of the legislative authority. It may be the Fiscal Council, but if it wants to deal with politics, and I don't want to believe that the Fiscal Council as an independent body wants to deal with politics and to express political views. The measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia during the period of the Crown were few. Well, I'm not sure that the Fiscal Council has fully agreed with all the measures, or I've read a different analysis, a wrong analysis, although I doubt it. Is it on the Fiscal Council that it criticises the position of the European Investment Bank and the International Labour Organisation, which say it is a good measure of the government of the Republic of Serbia which has been allocated 100 euros for every adult person in the period when we face the biggest health challenge, and not just us, but the whole world. So, the European Bank, the International Labour Organisation, says it is a good measure, that it reduces poverty, but is facing criticism from the Fiscal Council. Now, we can interpret it differently. Is the Fiscal Council, as well as the organisations I listed, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia pushing for poverty reduction in Serbia? Serbia did not invent this measure, to be clear, this measure was used by other world economies. I think he used both Japan and the United States. This measure, in our opinion, has primarily contributed to maintaining the level of consumption, but has also introduced one dose of optimism among Serbian citizens during an extremely difficult period of time. And to be clear, it is not a controversial constructive criticism, but here we have a criticism that is directed towards the European Bank, we have a criticism that is directed towards the International Labour Organization, we have a criticism, as far as I understand, which is directed towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then the question arises: Is the job of the Fiscal Council to criticize all that is good? And we think this is good and positive, and the vast majority of citizens think this was a good and positive measure. So, the whole world faces a serious health challenge that has not been seen so far and whose end unfortunately is not yet in sight. And just a little while, Mr Markovic mentioned the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, but also the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development says Serbia will be one of the leading countries in economic growth during this period. So the system works when it's the hardest, and not only does it work, but that same system does the results. Now, we can agree or not on the indicator, but we can also talk about it and talk about it. I do not think that the system should have been closed, that we should have closed the government building of the Republic of Serbia, that the President of the Republic should have done his job online, but that both the President and the Government are responsible, seriously and committed to doing their job, just as they do in the year that is very difficult, I repeat. And what is the essential goal? To be with their citizens and to preserve the life of every Serbian citizen at this time. That's priority number one. The measures of the government that were just spoken of, are they, as is said, transparent and are they rightly directed? We believe they are. They are primarily directed towards the most sensitive, I would say, categories, and aimed at preserving the level of employment in Serbia, which is today on the historical level, aimed at living standards and citizens' existence and aimed at preserving the economy, primarily the private sector, which is the blood stream, which is the future in Serbia. Because without the private sector, the economy, I don't believe that we can survive economically, in the sense that the economy is important, it's important for the state because on the one hand it opens up new jobs, and on the other hand the state is living on taxes and taxes it collects from the private sector. Through the government's rebalancing, and I have carefully looked at the analysis and views of the fiscal council when we talk about the government's rebalancing, I think that the fiscal council's analysis was first in April, and the second one in November, through the rebalancing of the government that we discussed here in parliament, we think that real problems have been considered and that a realistic response to current problems has been given, because this is the present, but also the path that creates the future, and that it has been taken primarily into account the interests of citizens, public interests, but it has also been taken into account how to preserve the hard-earned fiscal achievements that have been achieved through the reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You mentioned the deficit a little while ago. I realized that from the analysis I read, you're critical of the deficit. Correct me if I'm wrong, maybe I misread and understood. But it's true, we're going to have a big deficit at the end of 2020, but not because the wrong fiscal policy was being conducted and the government was leading the wrong policy, but because of the crown, but certainly this deficit is not expensive. But we certainly have extraordinary results, which says we can do better and faster in the period ahead of us. I'd say we have one controlled deficit, we have a public debt projection that's below 60% of gross social product. So we're moving in some parameters that will allow us to have one balanced and development budget in 2021. We'll talk about it Monday, because then, as I understand it, there will be a budget debate for 2021. There were few talk of Serbia's borrowing as well. By borrowing, in our opinion, Serbia does not leave a commitment to generations to come, but rather invests in the future, just investing in those generations, in the sense that it is investing in something that will benefit all of them. Because if there are no capital investments, if there are no public investments, how are we going to start an economic recovery and how are we going to start a business, but also a private sector? Now, the finding of the Fiscal Council in one of the analyses, you correct me again if I'm wrong, because that the health crisis has exposed problems that have been pushed under the carpet for many years. What problems has this government put under the carpet? This ruling coalition, from the moment it was established to this day, has led an active policy in the sense that it has been facing problems and giving answers to those key issues. If you mean health care, I have here investments in Serbia's health in the last five years, I don't want to say now taxing, it's long, it's too long, but there's going to be time we can talk about it. I agree that he's always insufficient, but you can't say that he didn't invest in health care, is he, but no one could predict 2020, this is unpredictable and this is a difficult year. I have to tell you, I can't agree with the conclusion that the government's policy is bare. I think, if you just think so, that you've made your point, because you know how, sometimes when I read your analysis, and I do very often, as if I'm reading the analysis of this quasi opposition. And yet I don't want to believe, I really have no intention and I don't want to believe, and I think I should always work to strengthen independent institutions and independent bodies, and I don't want to believe that you have any intention of taking a political stance. You're talking about intransparency and you mentioned it in one of the reports. What's untransparent today and when it was more transparent, if it wasn't in 2020. Well, turn on the TV, so every day you have reports of how many people are sick, so you're dealing with numbers, data, so gather how much it costs to treat a sick person and you'll see how transparent it is? This is the reform government for a difficult time. A government that will respond to the challenges of time and does not have the government the problem of facing problems and making decisive moves, but the courage to face problems. You know, an economic policy that is not socially responsible for us is not a good policy, and that is why we advocate economic policy in which the centre is human, and that is the policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia leads. I'm sorry I overstepped my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1068	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word came to mind, Mr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1069	Thank you. At first, I would like to welcome Mr Milicevic's commitment that there should be an open dialogue between the members of the Fiscal Council to respect different opinions and that this is what contributes to the promotion of public policies and fiscal policies in particular. Of course, if opinions were the same then, as Mr Milicevic said, I agree, would question the existence of such independent bodies. Now Mr. Milicevic has really long exhibited, I will not be able to respond to all these analyses and remarks, but I hope that we will have time to talk about these individual remarks, here on Monday on the Committee on Budgets, and of course he did not refer to the report on 2019, but a good part had and spread character, which I also accept. The main point of the beginning was that time denied some of our views and that we were against some of the laws passed by the congregation. He did not specify which laws and what attitudes time denied except for the pension analysis. So, Mr Milicevic said that in 2014 we were in favour of reducing pensions and salaries and that's true. If we had said this again in 2017, Mr Milicevic, advocated at the end of 2017, it is for 2018, that pensions, to abolish the Regulation on the temporary reduction of pensions. And that's true, but it's not contradictory at all. In order to achieve a successful fiscal consolidation which was 2015, 2015, 2016 and 2017, one of the necessary measures was to reduce pensions. We suggested it and the government adopted it, that measure. Thanks to this measure, and some other measures, the deficit was reduced from a record level in 2014 when it was over 6% of GDP, and over two billion euros, which is Serbia's record by then and more than 70%, that thanks to that pension reduction, the deficit was reduced to balance in 2017 or 2018 already. This was a sign that fiscal consolidation had ended and that there was no longer any point in maintaining a temporary pension reduction. Then the Fiscal Council's analysis showed that the temporary measure that resulted over three years, that the temporary measure should be abolished and the pensions should be returned relatively, not to the level that was lost, but to be harmonised relatively, because the largest pensions were the most reduced. It was the first position in 2017. Then we said in 2018, not only that, but we should move on to the law-based indexing of pensions, which is a practice in all countries of Europe and then proposed the Swiss formula, or proposed a diapazon of solutions, and the Government chose the Swiss formula. So, two bet. It's completely consistent that when there's a crisis, you're looking for savings. The government accepted that. When politics gets results, level the budget, then there's no need for you to keep that temporary measure. Here's an additional observation or additional finding, Fiscal advice, I'm not telling Mr. Milicevic now, but in general, it is often brought into connotation of savings, savings, decreases, don't spend. This is an example that it's not like that. We're talking – stop spending, reduce when there's a crisis, when it's necessary. And when that policy has yielded results, we say on the contrary – remove the measure that gave the result and raise your pensions freely. It was one particular thing. The second concrete thing I saw was that we criticised the International Labour Organisation and the European Bank, which praised the government's 100-euro award to every resident. First of all, this is not about the International Labour Organisation and the European Bank. The authors of this study are domestic people, domestic experts. The International Labour Organisation and the European Bank, and their subsidiary in Serbia, funded this study and, as it stands with all such organisations, including the IMF, the World Bank and so on the International Labour Organisation and the European Bank, has something called... , and this is said to be expressed, and that is standard for the IMF, the views expressed in this study do not necessarily reflect the views of the organisations that financed this project. Therefore, it is basically an analysis and results of domestic authors, but were financed by these two organisations, their representations in Serbia. I point out once again, there is a disclogger, attitudes expressed here as well as in all other studies, when copyright studies, not studies or reports given by an organisation, this is done by the IMF, by the World Bank, that is what all central banks do, when the authors are special, name and last name, then this organization says those opinions, even though we have funded, the views expressed in this study do not necessarily mean that these are the opinions of the organisations that financed it. And now, independently of that, we already had this discussion on the Finance Committee in early November, I don't know if you were there, we as the Fiscal Council have assessed when the measure was announced that the 100-euro measure divided by all inhabitants of the country is not good or fiscal, because it is a huge cost - 600m euros. It's not good or social, because it doesn't target, it doesn't target those who are the poorest. It's not good or economic, because the money from that division won't go back to the budget. Then came a study of the local authors who funded these organizations. So that's the opinion not of the organization, but of those domestic authors who did the analysis, which is quite legitimate. We are then, since this analysis of these domestic authors shows or argues, an analysis of the numbers presented, that this measure has reduced poverty, and it is implicit that this measure was a good measure. Since we criticized that measure, we took that analysis, to see that we may not have made a mistake, that maybe it's really what these authors say and when we analyzed it, we saw two things. First, they made a numerical mistake, an analytical mistake. It's not a valuable grade anymore, this is good, this is bad. It's like math, or it's true or it's not true. We showed that they made a mistake. Two, this reduction of poverty, which they came up with, is much less than they wrote because a mistake was made and, secondly, we showed that perhaps with a third of those pairs, 200 million, could have a similar effect on poverty reduction to achieve and we have shown it analytically, by numbers, and intuitively, to explain to you, which should be clear to everyone, that instead of 600 million people, and who has and who doesn't, it could have been taken 200 or 300 million euros and that only those who need it and then poverty would be further reduced. A normal response to our analysis, which we have published, would be that now these authors, therefore domestic authors, and not international organisations, take that answer, compare with their views and numbers, and then make an analysis, so they say – well, no, you've made a mistake here and here remain our conclusions or, on the other hand, to say – and, yes, we've made a mistake, we accept that it is. In these two or three months, since we came out with that analysis, these authors have not called, which is natural to conclude that they agree or do not have an answer to that. So, once again to go back, it's not about the relation of the Fiscal Council to international organisations, but about the analysis of the Fiscal Council, one of the documents that was done by the local authors, and they funded these organizations and wrote, as well as in all the documents when individual authors work, this does not necessarily reflect the author's opinion. I've taken a lot of time here. I say, we'll have time to discuss other things. I think there's room for discussion, that we disagree. I'll just have some more that are very short. You cite as an example of an international organisation, let's say, the World Bank, which is talking about Serbia's future growth. Well, let me tell you, in 2021, the World Bank predicts growth in Serbia from 3% to 3.5%, the Fiscal Council says up to 4%, the IMF says 5%, and the government says 6%. So here, two things can be concluded. First of all, the World Bank has turned out very conservative here, 3%. Then the answer, or not the answer, is the discussion with you, to see that there are different views of the World Bank. Secondly, these different figures, the World Bank says 3%, we 4%, the IMF 5%, the Serbian government 6%, it just shows that there's a huge uncertainty and no one can tell you exactly what's going to happen next year. It could happen to be 6% growth, and it could happen to be growth and 2%. So it's not just an ordinary year, and that's where the problem comes from. About the deficit, in 2020, we gave it to rebalance. That deficit is mostly due to the crisis. First attitude. The second position, we praised the government's measures in April of the month, in August too, along with the fence that should be targeted, not all to be given again. The only reserve was, and it was big, these 100 euros, which we discussed, but in this rebalancing analysis, we showed that the deficit could have been lower for some billion euros, that some other things were essential, some of the spending that were not related to the crisis was not even made. About transparency, and we wrote that in the rebalancing analysis, and now we've written that again in the budget analysis, look there, it's just that, in the case of the 2021 budget now, that there are 800m euros where you from the draft budget, you can't figure out where that money is going to go. When we say non-transparency, we think of it, and we think it's precisely the function of the Fiscal Council, to ask the government to separate everything, to show where that money goes exactly so that you MPs, including you, Mr Milicevic, would know exactly, including those 800m euros, for which purposes they go, and then say, yes, this is excellent, I commend, I will vote for it, and this I don't know whether it's best or whether it could have been for any other purpose. I say once again, there have been many more questions, but I hope that here already on Monday we can continue the discussion and then through other kinds of communication, one of which may be that the Finance Committee organises a meeting with us where these issues would be professionally exchanged. You say, "This is my misunderstanding, we say. This is the answer, so let's move on."
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1070	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. Replica, MP Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1071	Okay, since I have two minutes, but I'm gonna use more replicas, I hope we keep talking. You say it's not international organizations. It's branches. All right, there's probably a huge difference between whether a branch of an international organisation worked or an international organisation when we're talking about 100 euros and when we talk about whether you've criticised the position, or whether it's the measure of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was supported by those international organisations. On the other hand, did you have a chance, Mr. Petrovic, to talk to people? Are you talking to the citizens of Serbia? Have you spoken, if you do not arrive to talk to the citizens of Serbia, are they satisfied or not? Have you spoken to your 17 employees how they feel when they get that 100 euros in support and help by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? You say, and we will agree on that – uncertainty and an unpredictable year. And in 2021, it will be uncertain and unpredictable and will depend heavily on when the vaccine arrives, but I don't expect you to criticise it, because it won't depend on the government whether we get the vaccine in January or February or unfortunately, we have to wait for October, November, which will again affect fiscal and financial indicators. But that doesn't depend on the government of the Republic of Serbia. So this is about, I repeat, about people, not just numbers. You didn't talk about intransparency when it came to the 2021 budget. You spoke – non-transparent, over-separation for public enterprises and wages, inefficient division of 100 euros when it comes to rebalancing for 2020. You just said you were talking about 2021. It's not true, you said, and it's in the report, for 2020, and I looked very closely at that report. You talked a little bit about fiscal consolidation, about when you needed to get your pension back, in what way, that model applied. So we did it the moment we thought it was necessary and it proved to be good, in 2019 when we had a surplus, we...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1072	Thank you, colleague Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1073	Just a moment, please, it's an important debate. Ten more seconds, I'll have a chance to get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1074	It's about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1075	In 2019, when we had a surplus, we just had a rebalance, not because we had expenditures, but because we had a surplus, we put an end to fiscal consolidation and did exactly what you suggested, that is, your associate who said 2018 that it is necessary to increase living standards and economic growth in Serbia. In this way there was a redistribution of fiscal space evenly through the surplus we had in 2019 through budget rebalances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1076	Thank you, fellow Milicevic. I'm sorry, I have to take care of the Rules of Procedure too. There are other colleagues waiting to take their word for it. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich. Replica, right? Just once.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1077	Yeah, just clearing up. So, I didn't claim that the branches supported... (Jorge Milicevic: That's what you said. All right, let me just finish. At all, these organizations didn't support it. It writes everywhere in such studies when you have individual authors and funded by the IMF, the World Bank, the International Labour Organisation, the European Bank, whether it is a subsidiary in Serbia, whether the centre is in Washington, writes views in this material do not necessarily reflect the views of these organisations. Thus, neither the branches nor the headquarters are necessarily behind these views. It's a standard formulation. For intransparency, you're right, in 2020, yes. In 2020, it was not transparent, we wrote that in the rebalancing. You have a list that's the amount, I don't have it on me right now, it's order size, I don't know, about 800 million euros. We said, these amounts don't know where they're going. It was, I don't know, budget loans, it was the Public Investment Office, aero traffic subsidies, subsidies to Elektroprivreda, additional investment in the Ministry of Defence, etc. Yes, you're right, 2019, 2020, and we illustrated it intransparent and showed rebalancing. Unfortunately, we're going to discuss this on Monday, we sent the report yesterday, maybe it came to you, it's happening again in 2021.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1078	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Replica, MP Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1079	I'm still staying on the ground if it's been transparent for a few years, it was 2020. On the other hand, you said branches, not me. You said for a moment that they supported, and you denied and they didn't answer. Now you're saying they didn't support it. Okay, rhetorically, I'm a great follower. It's rhetorical, look at the stenogram. Next thing you know, you haven't answered my key question. You said in the report that the naked government policy was not faced with health problems, and I tell you a billion for Serbia's health care. Health care is one of three priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Increased salaries to nurses in 2019 by 15%, doctors by 10%. Increased salary 10% to your medical staff due to Kovid in 2020. After many years 2017 completed KC Nis, a new complex with the most modern equipment. The work on KC Serbia, reconstruction and completion is under way. All rough work has been completed. The end is planned in 2021. The reconstruction of KC "Dragisa Misovic" was carried out. There's a reconstruction of the Emergency Center. The reconstruction of the Tirsheva Children's Clinic has been completed. In 2019 the construction of the Institute "Dedenje 2" of the second part of the complex of this clinic for the heart began, the works are under way. The completion of the reconstruction of three buildings in KC Zemun, pediatrician, polyclinic equipment is under way. The construction and reconstruction of KC Kragujevac should begin. On 27 November 2020, a signed contract for the reconstruction of KC Vojvodina, 33,000 square meters. The reconstruction of several general hospitals has been reconstructed and completed 80 primary protection facilities, health homes and infirmarys. Kovid hospital, VBC Karaburma, Batajnica, equipment Kovid hospitals at the Fair, Arena, Novi Sad, "Chair" in Nis etc. I still have a lot to say, but I don't have time, but we're going to continue this debate anyway. Don't just tell me that naked politics and that the government had no responsibility to health care and that it had no responsible relationship with healthcare professionals, because the first salary increase was just directed towards healthcare professionals. Let my colleagues correct me if I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1080	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1081	This whole branch thing is totally clear, but let's do it one more time. So, the branch funded the project, and here it stands, the views expressed in the project, the views of the authors outlined in the project are not necessarily the views of these organisations. We also took an analytical and professional analysis of this empirical analysis. We showed that these authors were wrong, we made it public. The authors have so far not reported to say - no, you are wrong, but we are, and to show it analytically. Since the authors didn't do it, we conclude they have no other argument. So once again, the branch self-financed, and the authors wrote. This would require a longer discussion for healthcare, but in our summary, it says not this government, but the health crisis is stripping the problems that have been pushed under the carpet for many years, which means that they must have been for ten years, and perhaps longer the investments in health have been less than needed. As a result, investments in this 2020 were to be much larger and to be in health care. What has been done is very good and it is good that the investments in healthcare have finally gone very high, but our lagging behind due to little investment in the last ten years, and perhaps more, our objective lagging behind in health care is great. Therefore, these investments should continue later. So, once again, in 2020, there were big investments, what you counted. Second attitude, that's great what's done. The third attitude, part of it, is that it hasn't invested in a long, ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1082	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Replica, Gjorge Milicevic. With your replica we close the circle of replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1083	You can't close the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1084	I can, I'm in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1085	You can't close the circle of replicas. The debate lasts while the dialogue between me and Mr Petrovic lasts. Let me, we're having a very constructive discussion, so there's no reason for you to do that. It's democracy in parliament. That's what you need to learn. So this isn't the measure. Let's cut it short. So, whether it's a branch or not, you'll see it with the authors when they answer. I believe he will answer you. You mentioned branches, not me. You led to contradiction, not me. I still have my own opinion and I still think that, not opinions, but clearly, this is a measure not invented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The great world economies have used this measure. I said what contribution she made specifically. The government's naked policy is your analysis that stands in budget rebalancing for many years, you say ten and over. Let's figure out how much more that is. I think it's a lot more than that. About ten years, a lot more. I'm the only one who told you what was done. Let's just go when you're doing an analysis and when you're making reports, let's make a little more concrete, because this is how you transfer the burden of responsibility to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is responsible, serious and dedicated to accessing his work, especially when we talk about the health system. You still haven't answered one question -- did you have a chance to talk to Serbian citizens and your employees, and what do they say to a 100-euro average of every adult citizen? I haven't exceeded two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1086	I thank you, colleague Milicevic, but for the sake of the public, since I learned and received your criticism in the meantime. I read Article 104, and since I chair the moment you made your suggestions, I have a discretionary right to decide who has the right to reply. I thank you again. (Djordje Milicevic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1087	Let me just answer that. (Djordje Milicevic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1088	Excuse me, Mr. Petrovich. Before you fellow Milicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1089	I'm glad you learned. You have besides you gentlemen who know the Rules of Procedure very well. You should have done that before. Article 27, and you may do so. 103 and 104. Article 104 refers specifically, do not give Mr. Srdjan, listen to me, when someone has the opportunity to get a replica – when it is directly mentioned and you do not have the right to take it away. So allow democratic debate and democratic dialogue. There's no reason to communicate like this. Mr. Petrovic speaks very politely and culturally to me, I speak very politely and culturally to him, and I only consider that we are having a constructive discussion. The fact that we disagree, that's another thing. I guess we're here to have a discussion. That's how I realized it. Please, look at Article 104, which says very clearly when someone has the opportunity to access the replica. Thank you. I'm not asking the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1090	I thank my colleague Milicevic. You have just called for Article 104, and I will supplement you – on the exercise of the rights set out in Article 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President, that is, the Chairman of the National Assembly. Thank you. I'll give you my word, Mr. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1091	Only this question that was asked me – did I ask the staff of the Fiscal Council and spread how they look at 100 euros? Obviously, you offer everyone to get 100 euros instead of 0 and they'll be happy, but that's not the real question. The real question, and hence the need for the Fiscal Council, is that 100 euros of taxpayers, in fact, that 100 euros we borrowed from the outside and borrowed on interest, is that 600m euros as a result well used? Is it that 100 euros instead of going into the hands of someone who could, that 600 million in total, just to be in debt instead of 600 million in interest, to be in debt for 300 million in interest, and then to divide everyone by 100 euros? Otherwise, this argument of yours could be -- let's charge ourselves a billion and 200 and give each citizen 200 euros each, and then ask them in turn -- are you happy to get 200 euros but 100 euros, and the answer will be clear. Therefore, keeping responsible fiscal policy means making responsible use of taxpayers' money, so that it goes where it is most needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1092	Here you go, Mr. Milicevic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1093	I thank you for not denying a democratic debate. Fiscal advice, why did I ask that question? It's a rhetorical question. So you have 17 employees. (Pavel Petrovic: We have 12.) In response to your... You now failed to convince those 12 of your answers that the 100-euro measure was bad because I realized they were using it. I didn't ask you directly if your employee used it, but by answering your question, by answering your question, I realized that they were using it, which says as much as those who participated in defining and compiling this report believe in that position, but good. We can continue to have such a discussion. We'll continue on Monday, of course. Once again, I would like to point out, an economic policy that is not socially responsible is not a good policy, and that is why we are also pushing for economic policy, as I said, in whose centre is the man, whose centre is the Serbian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1094	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, Ivana Popović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1095	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, honourable fellow Members, to return, therefore, to a set of reports that we have before us, which are reports of work for 2019 of relevant institutions whose representatives we have with us today in the plenary room. What I would like to say at first is that the representatives of these institutions presented the fact that these reports were submitted within the legal deadline, and that they were satisfied with the co-operation they had, both at national level and at international level with relevant institutions. So let's start at the first point, and that's everyone's the Anti-Corruption Agency. In 2019, the agency marked the 10th anniversary of its existence. On the basis of experience, results, but of course the problems they faced during those years of their work have made a strategy and a work plan for the next five years. In addition to performing our duties within the country, they also pointed out that they had very good co-operation with international anti-corruption bodies, and they believe that this exchange of experiences, the exchange of knowledge, but of course the adoption of international standards is something that is necessary for us to achieve common goals in this area. What I would like is to bring the Agency closer to the citizens, that is, its work. It is certainly responsible, out of its jurisdiction, for its founder, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It also has its powers under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and under the Law on lobbying and under the Law on the financing of political activities. The first law I mentioned in 2019 suffered certain changes and additions. In the first place, the very name of the law was changed to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. Thus, the Agency changed its name to the Corruption Prevention Agency. The following two laws, which I have mentioned, certainly, have significantly increased the work of the Agency. In the first place, I would like to point out that lobbying from one informal has become a legal form and a legal framework, and thus the Agency has received additional competences and additional jobs. In the first place, of course, in the educational segment, but of course also in the control role in the area of lobbying. Also, I'd like to share with my colleagues that at this point in our country there are 23 people involved in lobbying. I think that's how the Director of the Agency introduced us to the Committee. Also, it was precisely this extension of jurisdiction that required the personnel empowerment of this agency, as well as the systematicisation of their work. The previous meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was through the adoption of the Regulation, but of course the Government of the Republic of Serbia through an increase in the 2019 budget that was allocated to the Agency enabled the Agency today to employ 163 workers within 126 jobs. As we could hear in part, but we may have had more detailed information on the Committee, by the end of 2019, eighty people were employed, and now at this point we have about 95 employees at the Agency. The reason why, let's say, is that somewhere a little late with the fulfillment of all these jobs is certainly one process of public competition, or more phases of verifying the competences of the candidates that are necessary. So, the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and later by amending the financial plan for 2019, the Agency had allocated funds of 254 million 616 thousand 849 dinars, of which they used 240 million 9000 147 dinars or 94.9% of the budget. That, in any case, tells us how carefully they prepared their budget, but then later they had the same money. So, a lot of new powers. I would like to share with my fellow Members an item in the Lobby Act, which is that if any of the lobbyists send you an official memo, you are obliged to accept the meeting, but you are also obliged to report to the Corruption Prevention Agency. The Agency is therefore, impartially, responsibly and very securely carrying out its work, and in addition, it certainly says that during 2019 they submitted the procedures for verifying the assets, conflicts of interest of the officials, as well as the control of the financing of political activities, in total 866 procedures, and 604 measures were made. But in some times past, we can't say it was like that. The best example of this can certainly be the mystery of Mr. Dragan Gilas' property map or Mr. Goko Gilas and some of the then anti-corruption agencies, certainly that in 2012, 2011, 2010 they were supposed to investigate this case, but they did not react at the time and did not react to the relevant institutions. That's why we remember very well how they were then attacking current Finance Minister Sinisha Malia saying that he owned 24 apartments, which eventually turned out to own only one apartment within a building that has 24 apartments. So, in all that time, no one cares about the fact that Mr. Dragan Gilas, while in power he put 619m euros in his pocket. I'm here today in a position to wonder how someone can acquire it, 28 or 35 apartments or how someone can acquire a hectare of real estate at the best locations in our country? I'm taking this opportunity to call, as they like to say, the Gilas brothers to finally come out with their property card, to finally Mr. Gilas, this self-proclaimed leader of the opposition present to our people their property, present his property and finally, once and for all, clarify our citizens this mystery. Now we move on to the next point, which is the point concerning the Fiscal Council and their work cycle within 2019. What is certainly an expedient circumstance is that this is the period in which our country was in surplus in the budget and in the pre-crisis period. A couple of technical data. So the Fiscal Council has 17 systematicized perpetrators of which 12 are currently in office. Their budget amounts to a little less than 45 million dinars, which once again draws the line exactly where they insist, which is where we had the opportunity to hear, which is exactly the savings and cost reduction within the budget. They commended, of course, co-operation with their most senior associate, which is the Ministry of Finance, that they received timely and complete information from both the minister and his associates. They also had excellent bilateral relations with other ministries in our country, which produced many of the analyses they presented to us in 2019. Also, excellent international co-operation, both with the IMF, EU delegations, and with the World Bank and other bilateral associates in the area. I would like to highlight some of these thematic activities that the Fiscal Council had during 2019. In the first place, it is in search of an economically sustainable and socially acceptable formula for harmonising pensions. So you went out with material that was just about establishing a pension indexation system in the Republic of Serbia. This certainly resulted in an excellent social debate and the result of all this is that we adopted today a Swedish formula by which pensions are calculated. The next thematic analysis is paying classes and employment in Serbia's state sector, from unfinished reform to a sustainable system. This is where you dealt with pay, employment problems, but also certain problems that we inherited from previous governments. That's what we thank each other for anyway, and that's what these pay classes are all about. You've been involved in public investment, and you think maybe even the greatest progress has been made in this area. These public investments certainly represent something that is necessary for each country and that they develop them within the framework of infrastructure and you have made a proposal and a recommendation for the future period, to also refer to investments related to environmental protection. You also analysed the possibility of tax cuts, which the Ministry of Finance accepted and included in the budget in 2019. In the end, we don't always have to agree with the Fiscal Council, but certainly they are necessary within our country, because they advocate one restrictive rather than expansion policy of public finances, and they advocate further savings. In my opinion, each state needs to own a solid fiscal system, a fiscal system that will be able to warn and tell the government about the costs of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We in our country are truly running a smart, responsible and economic policy. It may best be seen through the fact that we have reports on public finances on a daily basis. It is these reports and insights that have the highest level, that is, President Aleksandar Vukic and, of course, Minister of Finance Sinisha Mali. Here today I have an opportunity to share with my colleagues and citizens the most relevant report yesterday's budget analysis, where we can see that our country with yesterday's GDP rate is 56.8%. So, despite the crisis despite the downturn of the economy around the world, the Republic of Serbia has managed to separate nearly six billion euros and focus them precisely on the most vital parts of our society, which we can certainly see through guarantee schemes, through our economy, through the private sector, through the three salaries that we had, tax and contribution disposal, through 60% of minimum earnings for another two months, August and September, and the fact that you mentioned quite in the previous period, which is certainly the 100 euros, a helicopter of money that was received by every adult citizen. Also, there were still many measures implemented by the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, I would return and look back at the fact that we have succeeded from a very invisible situation that we have encountered from the previous government, which is that the 79% debt is reduced and that, in this crisis time, after all these aids from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we manage to keep our public debt below the mastery of the criteria, that is, below 60%. So, once again to underline that our public debt is under control today and that GDP is 56.8%, and as we heard from President Aleksandr Vukic the other day, we hope that this responsible economic policy will succeed in the coming period by the end of the year to bring down that public debt rate a little bit further. It's certainly not something that's simple. In addition to my statement, the rates of gross domestic product that the relevant reports with yesterday show us, and I would now read to you here some of these countries. Croatia 85.3%, Slovenia 78.2%, Greece 187.4%, Germany 78.89%, Britain 102.14%, France 114.78%, Italy 158.63%, etc. These figures are really alarming, not a bit easy to hear, but, once again, we can thank this responsible economic policy conducted by both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic and the Ministry of Finance, that we are in this position today. Let's move on to the items. The next is the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. This commission is in charge of the work of the National Assembly. She is a second-degree body compared to the Public Procurement Authority. The report they submitted to us certainly is comprehensive and has everything that is necessary under the Public Procurement Act. We also had the opportunity to read another comment in this report and to refer to how this Commission has functioned since 2013, for a simple reason, because at the moment this report was submitted, it was already clear that the Law on Public Procurement had been amended and changed, a new one was adopted. When it comes to the competencies of the Republic Commission and its activities in 2019, they held 312 sessions, at which 1096 decisions were taken. The procedure for the protection of rights is still something which is absolutely the dominant jurisdiction of the Republic Commission and I would like to share with you some of that information. Therefore, rights protection requirements in 2019 resolved more than 90% of cases within the legal period. In the same year, out of a total of 872 decisions in 453 cases or 52%, rights protection requirements were adopted as established, and only 10% of the Republic Commission's decisions concerned procedural decisions. Therefore, these are situations where these rights protection requirements have been rejected either because of the lack of procedural assumptions for measurement or because of the withdrawal of applicants. Also, the estimated value of public procurement is over 71 billion dinars, and the amount of taxis is over 125 million dinars. We had a chance to hear it, but certainly I would like to point out once again that we have one positive trend when it comes to operating deadlines. So, a total of 71% of the cases were decided within the legal period. Also, we have another positive trend regarding the average duration of the procedure. So five days is faster than 2018, so the average time is 41 days, and the average time is 28 days. Also, when it comes to infringements, the Republic Commission received a total of 23 requests in 2019 to initiate a misdemeanour procedure. What is important to point out is that with the new Public Procurement Act, adopted, they no longer have jurisdiction to conduct criminal proceedings, but it is the jurisdiction of the criminal court. As a result, the Republic Commission has a new competence, which is to submit those requests. A special recognition must indeed be given to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, which managed to carry out a reform of public procurement procedures during the previous period. Our public procurement is now more transparent, more efficient procedures and everything is in line with the principles of the European Union and, of course, with the EU's legislative frameworks. We are in line with European legislation when it comes to this area, although we have found a really bad situation in 2014, but intensive work has improved the capital market. Finally, we come to the last item, and that is certainly the Commission's report on securities of value. In the previous period, we could hear from the directors, and the legislative activities of the National Assembly have been sufficiently focused on the competences of which the Securities Commission is responding. So, the Stock Exchanges Act, the new Audit Act, the new Investment Funds Act with a public offering, as well as the brand-new Alternative Investments Act. Through three of these four laws, new competences have been allocated to the Commission, we have had the opportunity to hear this, the area of regulation, the commodity-market and not to list everything, but this has contributed to bringing the situation into line with all acts, that it must be harmonised in the first place by the Statute and the tariff rule, as well as the financial plan, in accordance with these newly established competences. What is essential and what we have also had the opportunity to hear on the Committee is that all the costs incurred by these new competences are covered through revenues that have also come from new competences. What I'd like to point out is something... . (Chairman: Please, fellow Members, to bring an end. I'm sorry. I would have something else to add to the Commission, which is to point out that at this point they are working on licensing the first official stock exchange in the Republic of Serbia and many other jobs. I'm sorry that we ended up as a group of MPs, but I'd have a lot more to commend. Finally, I must really stress this success of the finance ministry that has achieved, where at this point we can be in debt at 1%. We went out on the market, we had a very big response, even six times the demand compared to the offer. Once again, I congratulate the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on all the magnificent results they have achieved in the previous period. We as a parliamentary group will certainly support this set of reports. I call on my colleagues to make a positive decision on this item in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1096	Thank you, colleague. Since there are no more authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups reported in the system, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The first on the list is Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1097	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected present, is ahead of us a set of very important reports regarding the work of independent regulatory bodies, which is very important for indicators of the monitoring and development of a single country. The Anti-Corruption Agency, as well as the Fiscal Council, are bodies that directly correspond to the National Assembly and in whose jurisdiction it is indeed a monitoring of the issue in the domain and description of their work. What I would especially like to focus on is the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency itself, because somewhere in the very definition of corruption and it is said that it is abuse or attempt to obtain public funds and personal benefit. There's a point to the problem. I come from Sandzak and we don't have new factories in Sandzak, we don't have new jobs, despite having representatives directly in the government for years, but, on the other hand, we have an affair, corruption and we have spending, non-transparent and unintended spending of citizens' resources. What exactly am I talking about? We are witnessing that at the level of the state we saw, it is somewhere the government has highlighted and recognised as a strategically important issue – the fight against corruption itself, followed by several actions of the country itself, including Sandzak itself, where in particular in Novi Pazar, for example, we have had the arrests of certain officials of the city or local self-government, and that is what we care about for now. I ask the question – whether it will just stop at it, or simply enter into the process, because we have the fact that, let's say, the Mayor of the New Market says that he has a lot of confidence in his employees, that he believes in them as he believes himself, and on the other hand, the state and state authorities say something else, so we demand that this is not just some initial initiative, but that this problem be approached systemically, responsibly, and, on the other hand, very principled. That's what's very important at this point. Believe that the state authorities would have to deal literally with any self-government, in particular in Sandzak, to review a number of businesses, because the fact that every few people go public is a certain affair, such as the construction of a Shadow House in Sjenica, which lasted for years, and under the cloak of that building, there was a lot of other projects, or the abuse of certain projects in Tutin, where a significant number of resources for drying, say, medicinal plants are being made from each year, and only one asshole is being made and the funds are being used in this way. That's the problem this society definitely has to face. One more thing I would like to point out is the issue of the work of national councils. In fact, we saw through rebalancing that the resources were somewhat reduced by the councils of the national minorities and we were against that decision, but I would particularly stress the issue of the work and functioning of the Bosniak National Council. I do not know, indeed, whether the competent institutions are aware that, literally, the Bosniak National Greater Service is a political organisation in Sandzak, which is the Party of Democratic Action, and that it literally works for years. In addition to that, the fact is that, for example, the majority who are legally and legitimately elected by the people, let's say, even though they have prescribed incomes by law, they absolutely don't get those incomes. It is only one indicator of how many more abuses exactly the budget has by political entities and political actors. Instead of dealing with issues of national importance, what education in the native language, official use of language and letters, information in the native language, we have the fact that it is literally a service from which one political party is financed. In this respect, state authorities should take account and simply process all those who in any way abuse the function or role they play in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1098	Thank you. The word has Dejan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1099	Mrs. Pramenkovic, I just wanted to brief you on some new information that will be very interesting to you since we said on September 1st that a new law has entered, or the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and that law has increased the Agency's competence in the representation sector. What you're talking about here is there are people who aren't officials, which means they're not a target group of us and we're with these people, but I'm not saying that we can't work any further, that we're looking for evidence with other state bodies, which is our obligation and we're working together to make important decisions, or to help solve some problem. I would simply suggest that whenever you have a dilemma, whenever you come up with some data that is relevant to you, that you write a statement to the Agency that can now act on anonymous assumptions in special circumstances that we couldn't before. When an anonymous premise came, we passed it on to other state authorities and we had to stop there because we had no authority and jurisdiction to do so. Now where and where we can do better, it's only important that people trust us to give us all the information that is relevant and what they say – meat, where we can go and start with this problem to deal with. We do it very, now, I have to admit, I think we do it really well, where we're maximum focused on the problem, where we're looking and we're trying to get the information that's being delivered to us in some way, to check with the state authorities, to check with the data providers that we got. As for some conflict of interest, because at one point you said it was the mayor, so we're still worried and taking care of the mayor's property, the president of municipalities and people in local self-government. What's important is that when you see a rope somewhere with someone who is, if there's any connection between them or there's any basis that we can prove afterwards that thanks to the position he's in, he abused it and gave someone something that was not right under the law, again I say you need, we can and that, you know what we're educating, we're trying to help. So always, if it's estimated that someone needs to come, that it's necessary, although it's the crown now, and this situation has seriously complicated our kind of communication with you, because we've really tried to go out of our way and always help, especially now that we have a new law, where we need to simply show people what changes are, to tell them what our new powers are, to tell them what we're really doing. It means that in situations like this, someone who will direct it to us. We have an e-mail, because I can really brag, and here I am the deputy director for two years, and I can really boast that the fibek is great to us, to say that we respond, if not the same day, to answer the next day. Sure, let's inform the SUP that we've met the problem and we'll let it know. So we simply need communication with you, because it can mean a lot to us. You're at the bar, you know what's going on there. We unfortunately don't have the opportunity to track it on a daily basis, but we can thank you for working on it. I hope we're really helping, and here we are next year in the report, stating something that we've done with you together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1100	Thank you. Dear People's MPs in accordance with article 87, I'm giving a break and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1101	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The next on the list of registered MPs is Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1102	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say at the very beginning that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support in the voting day the proposed conclusions and thus, in fact, give support to the reports that we are discussing today. In my presentation, I will talk about the Agency's Report on Combating Corruption, because for us in the Social Democratic Party, Serbia's fight against corruption is essential and is a prerequisite for creating a better society, a society of equal opportunities for all, societies where citizens will be able to exercise their rights at all times, regardless of the social situation. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia is both programmeically and valuablely pushing for a consistent fight against corruption and its causes, of course. For me personally, but also for my colleagues from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, therefore, MPs as bearers of the direct sovereignty of citizens, it is important that, in such discussions, we not only repeat and read in the plenary itself what is already in the report, but that we use this time to see how best in the future we can cope with corruption together, how to improve both the legal and legislative frameworks and strengthen institutions, because various parameters determine the quality of society. One of them is certainly corruption and willingness to deal with corruption. One of the more important parameters is the past elections where the people have very clearly recognised and supported us and chose to engage even more strongly in the fight for their rights, and one of the most important rights of citizens is that they have strong institutions in which they can exercise their rights, that they feel that institutions are behind them, that they are protecting them, because if they do not facilitate the way for citizens to achieve a need, then corruption cannot be eradicated and the fight against corruption in that case is difficult to be effective. The only improvement and comprehensive maturation and strengthening of institutions is precisely creating this relief and is the way to reduce corruption, because a citizen who can exercise his civil rights legally does not need anyone to corrupt. For us in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, it is, with an independent judiciary, one sure way to eradicate corruption and people living normally, to make Serbia a strong, democratic, civil state with full membership in the EU. So, only with strong institutions our country's citizens can be equal before the law, can they develop their businesses, live decently and with dignity from their valuable work, regardless of political, national, religious or any other belonging. As you can see, I'm not going to deal with high corruption because we in SDPS people are way beyond big words. High corruption should be dealt with by competent services and institutions in this country whose job it is. We are dealing with a small man, to finally arrange for society so that he becomes great in front of institutions and to create this very feeling that he knows that we recognize and feel the needs of citizens and that we promote their lives day and day. That's why they gave us support. Strengthening the capacity of the Anti-Corruption Agency is also extremely important, as well as creating a register of corruption cases and periodic public publication of the names of all perpetrators. The Anti-Corruption Agency should continue its work independently, as has been done so far, but there should be enough personnel available and, of course, material opportunities for this. One of the responsibilities of the Anti-Corruption Agency is research, monitoring and analysis of corruption status data. My colleague spoke about the latest survey on citizens' perception of corruption in Serbia. It is evident that the citizens of Serbia, around 84% believe that corruption has a major impact on our society in general. For Serbian citizens, this research has clearly shown, corruption remains one of the three biggest problems facing it, in addition to low wages and unemployment, but it is also very important to note that, according to the survey, the best assessment for the fight against corruption has just been given by the Serbian government. The citizens gave the government a score of 2.4 out of 5, similar to the police. This is not surprising, as the fight against corruption has been a priority for years for the government in Serbia. However, if this did not drag us in, a new index of perception of corruption shows that it is still at an extremely high level. What drew my attention to the report is the part about the model of the local anti-corruption plan. Therefore, in accordance with the obligation set out in the action plan for Chapter 23, the Agency has developed an anti-corruption model and a methodology for monitoring and reporting the application of the local anti-corruption plan. Since the presentation of the model in 2017, if I am not mistaken, for the first time, until 16 December 2019, when the local self-government units last notified the agencies of this process, the local anti-corruption plan adopted 102 cities and municipalities. So that's 70% of the total 145 units of local self-government. Now I'm not going to say how much of that number has made the plan fully in line with the model, how partially consistent, and how much in shape and content, there's absolutely no touch point with what's the model. Of course, I won't because I don't know. If I knew, I'd very much like to appoint these municipalities that haven't even developed a local anti-corruption plan or acted on what they're supposed to do, if we understand that correctly. For the opening of Chapter 23, it is precisely a model of a local anti-corruption plan. I am interested in, which municipalities or to make it easier, perhaps not enough time, to list them all now, to explain why all municipalities in Serbia have not since 2017, until today, fulfilled their obligation in accordance with the commitments of the Action Plan and to perhaps propose that in the coming period, if local self-government does not do what is their job, in order to fight corruption more effectively and effectively, and bring it down to the point that citizens can feel the improvement and progress of quality of their lives? I ask you in future to address us as carriers, again, the sovereignty of citizens and the competent committees of the Serbian Parliament, so let's see how we can solve this problem together and possibly ask the Ministry of Local Administration to help us in this process to make local self-government do what is their job. I'd end up here. Just to end up giving a brief conclusion to what I was actually talking about. Corruption is the poison of every society. She's as old as just society. In theory, there are many different and interesting theoretical explanations of corruption and its causes. I don't think any of them can explain the phenomenon of corruption completely to themselves, but I have noticed that at least part of the problem of corruption can be explained to almost every theory that's been carried out on corruption. In any case, when we talk about corruption, we can also conclude that no matter how many social sciences we study man and his social and interpersonal relations, the most secret remains the question of why man behaves in certain situations selfishly and greedyly, which is, in fact, some of the basic characteristics of corruption, and related to it certainly are questions of what and how exactly we can do on the treatment plan of these multiple diseases. So, as a society, we can find a cure for selfishness, greed, immorality, and then we can deal with it ourselves, or at least find an even better way to deal with corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1103	Thank you. National Ambassador Master Slavenko Unkovic. I'm sorry, I just saw Dejan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1104	Dear Mrs. Mihailović Vacic, I am extremely pleased that you have recognised the importance of prevention in the fight against corruption and that we are talking at all in Parliament about this as something very important and something that will be and will help in this long-term process that we are doing in fact to prevent and resolve these anti-corruption plans and to become something very important at the anti-corruption site, i.e. to work in all segments of society to improve and improve so that at some point we can get to the end of it and if we can at least reduce it. I'm extremely glad, I'm saying, that you've figured it out, noticed and asked, but this is how I'm going to tell you, very briefly, that the Agency has built a model LAP and that it supports the units of local self-government in that process, anyway. However, this process was not a priority for all local self-governments, regardless of what is foreseen by the Action Plan for Chapter 23. We actually had a campaign in 2018, I don't know how much you remember, and which, of course, we've allocated funds from the budget, and we've tried to bring it closer a little bit, and by campaigning a little promotion of these local anti-corruption plans, and to get it to all people and to all local municipalities and cities, and to work seriously on these plans. The agency can only appeal, unfortunately, to local self-government, to implement the obligation and to continue to provide that expertise in the process. All that remains are units of local self-government, which each needs to assume its share of responsibility in the process of fighting and preventing corruption, which means that we are still there. So, I know there's been many times that someone's been calling and asking how, can they, means we're really trying to get in every segment, every jurisdiction we have, to the maximum, to meet, especially if it's new at all, the law is new. It's all the things that, let's say, were newspapers and should simply be introduced to them. And at this time where we live, we've worked hard and we've worked on-line and so on. "web sessions" in which we could do something, help people, give information so that people could meet their obligations. As far as the cities are concerned, I don't know if it might be polite to talk a lot about it, but from the larger cities, for example, that's Belgrade, Nis, Cachak, the cities that haven't done the LAPs. By the way, on the Agency's website, there are all these data that are relevant, which are important in general and for getting to know the instruments, and at all information concerning these local anti-corruption plans, and what is the need to be done. On the other hand, there is a professional service and colleagues who are truly committed to doing so and who will accept that at any time provide any kind of assistance that is needed. As for some numbers, I can tell you from my head, I know it's 106 municipalities, right, 106 is done, some 73% of that, but it's still for us, I have to admit, unsatisfactory like you said, but let me tell you, I'm glad you recognize it because you, you can help us, and it's nice to suggest that we come and here tell us what we need to do in order for us to get our responsibilities and we can do it more easily and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1105	Thank you. (Nataša Mihailović Vacic: I take the floor. What? Replica? No, there is no "thank you" in the Rules of Procedure. [[Natasa Mihailović Vacic: Not a replica, just to thank you.]] Don't make me break the Rules of Procedure. Natasha thanks you. Let's move on. Natasha, I apologize. You have no right to a replica because nothing bad has been said. Master Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1106	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1107	Are you over the crown?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1108	I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1109	Hello, he's back.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1110	Dear guests, distinguished fellow MPs, define corruption as abuse of official office or influence in the public or private sector for personal benefit or benefit for other persons. Corruption is a phenomenon that undermines the rule of law, endangers human rights and negatively affects every country's economic development and therefore the fight against corruption is one of the most important tasks in a democratic society, for the development of a democratic society. In its six-point programme, the Serbian government has made it clear that it has been decisive and that it has never been determined to fight corruption so far. Today, we are discussing a report by the Anti-Corruption Agency, their report, and often the term "Council" and "agency" are mixed in in the public. The council is the advisory body of the Serbian government, and the agency is an independent state body that corresponds to the National Assembly and has a control, supervisory and proposing function. In my opinion, this report is very comprehensive, precise and in a concise way explaining everything you did in 2019. This independent body processed 866 items in 2019. 664 measures are proposed. In 182 cases, criminal proceedings were initiated and 38 criminal charges were filed. The most significant results in controlling the financing of political entities are the control of 30 political entities on the cost of election campaigns during 2018, as well as 32 times controlled financial reports by political entities. The agency has initiated 15 proceedings for breach of the Law on the financing of political activities, as well as 96 violations against responsible persons. When it comes to verifying the revenues of public officials, the Agency has carried out 212 checks, 212 reports, 74 procedures have been initiated, 63 measures have been imposed against public officials. 11 criminal charges have been filed on suspicion that officials have not reported the property, as well as 10 requests for the launch of criminal charges. How much conflict of interest is present in our society tells us that during 2019, the Agency received 1,427 subjects mainly related to conflict of interest and nepotism. When it comes to preventing the strengthening of integrity, the Agency has adopted a special programme of professional training of public sector employees in the area of prevention of corruption. In accordance with the obligation of the Action Plan for Chapter 23, the Agency has also developed a model of a local anti-corruption plan for units of local self-government, although still, as we have heard, some local self-governments have not changed the plan, and the implementation itself will be very problematic. The agency also welcomed the Law on Lobbying, which entered into force in 2019, and the Agency submitted some sublegal acts regulating the code of conduct of participants in lobbying, as well as some regulations. Since the Agency has a broad picture of corruption in our society based on all its activities, it also proposes some special measures. This time, in my opinion, the most significant thing is that it proposed to amend the Law on the financing of political parties, as well as to amend and supplement the Law on political parties, where the concept of a group of citizens would be defined in a better and more precise way, and that concept carries various irregularities with it so that we should also adopt it as a Assembly. The new Anti-Corruption Act, which came into force on 1 September this year, is a roof preventive anti-corruption regulation that strengthens the authorities and the Agency itself, which is called the Anti-Corruption Agency under the new law, and it seems to me that this name is more appropriate because we need to strengthen mechanisms in the prevention of corruption, which is a priority. The main objectives of the new law are to protect public interest, reduce the risk of corruption, strengthen responsibility and integrity of public authorities, as well as officials. The goal is to coordinate strategic documents in the fight against corruption with some future action plans. We do not currently have the anti-corruption strategy we had between 2013 and 2018. Perhaps now is the right time for the Agency to bring in such a document that would, of course, be in line with the objectives of the Serbian government. A systematic fight against corruption implies that not only some or several institutions do so, but all the institutions of this country do so. It is known that the Department of Justice has formed some special departments dealing with the processing of criminal acts with corruptive elements. So at this point we have a round-up legal framework that allows us to fight corruption more effectively, we may still need political will and, of course, the partnership relationship between all the institutions of the state and the citizens. The JS parliamentary group will support this report, as well as any future act that contributes to the improvement of the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1111	Thank you. National MP Nina Pavicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1112	Dear President of the National Assembly, respected representatives of the agencies, distinguished fellow MPs, as we know the Corruption Prevention Agency is an independent regulatory body, whose work is being established by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through a review of the annual report on work. This time on the agenda is the Agency's 2019 report. As an authority with a preventive function on the prevention of corruption during 2019, the Agency also faced failures of public officials in obligations under the law. On issues of property of public office holders, conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, then in the area of financing of the control of political activities and other cases, for which they have exclusive jurisdiction, because of infringement of the provisions of the Act on the Agency, a total of 866 procedures have been initiated, and more than 600 measures have been put in place. There are also those who are still in progress. The Agency's work accent, which is based on every commendation, is on activities aimed at raising awareness of the responsible and legal behaviour of public officials, as the basis of their personal integrity, which is ultimately reflected in the safe and responsible performance of public functions. One of the mechanisms to prevent corruption is certainly to control the financing of political activities, especially how to finance election campaigns. Through this form of control, the Agency is familiar with the collection and use of funds of political entities, both for regular work and for election campaigns. In line with the Anti-Corruption Act, all parties are required to submit a report to the Agency by 15 April of the current year for the previous year, as well as a report on contributions and assets, with the previous opinion of the auditors. This is how all the revenue of parties that must be legal and, above all, transparent is controlled. When it comes to the cost of campaigning and there is a 30-day deadline from the day the election results are announced. When all participants in the Agency's elections have to submit a report on the cost of the election campaign in order to avoid illegal spending of money, which is set aside from the budget in the election process at all levels. The control of public officials' assets is carried out through the submission of the report, when entering public office, as well as upon termination of the term of office. Checking the report on the property and incomes of officials, as well as monitoring their property status during public function, is a strong mechanism for preventing corruption that contributes to strengthening personal and institutional integrity. So this can be considered an anti-corruption measure because all the incomes of the officials are public, visible and can be monitored. With their ongoing monitoring and verification of the report on the property and income of officials, monitoring their changes, the Agency shall act preventively, but also if there is a suspicion that corruption has occurred, the Agency is obliged to forward such cases to other competent authorities. It is also important to highlight the existence of an anti-corruption legislative framework in Serbia that we are a society that matures and is ready to face corruption, through which huge amounts of citizens' money can flow. I would also highlight the very important role of the media in revealing corruption. Many media outlets have launched some public debates with their reports, revealed suspicions, and even concrete cases of corruption. The media should also see their role in the field of education on what corruption really is, given the social impact of corruption on the development of society, and above all on the rule of law that should ensure the same position for all before the law. However, there are cases where media leave out these topics by justifying the existence of pressure. What is seen from the Agency's report is also adapting the Agency to the situation under the terms of the Kovid 19 pandemic. In the next period, the Agency will hold several consultation meetings and online workshops to introduce all relevant company entities to the most important paper of the Anti-Corruption Act adopted last year, and on September 1st, it came into force this year. Another important task of the Agency is to prevent conflicts of interest among public function holders by controlling the legal provision of which functions cannot be performed at the same time and which can be carried out with the consent of the Agency. Finally, I would like to say that the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption has an important social task, and therefore responsibility in creating a rule of law and preventing corruption. The SPS parliamentary group supports the work of this anti-corruption, independent i.e. An anti-corruption independent body, and I am convinced that it will perform its function successfully in the next period, taking into account the general interest and that it will not harm the personal integrity of public function holders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1113	Thank you. Since Nina's from my political party, I know this is her first performance, so congratulations and I wish her good luck. The next speaker is Stanislava Janosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1114	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we have reports on the Agency's work on the agenda, as well as the Fiscal Council, as well as the commission. They're waiting for us to work a lot. Not only is it necessary to read these reports but it refers to an analysis of the work for a year. Public attention is mainly directed towards the Anti-Corruption Agency or the Fiscal Council, but nothing less on the Securities Commission and other working bodies present. We always need better results, we're always asking for more and so I constantly appeal to zero tolerance to corruption. However, it was not only the Agency's work that marked the previous period, but the attitude of each individual not to resort to corruption, abuse of official position or crime. I can't help but look back at 2012, not because I like to go back, but it's a key moment when we're dealing with monsters of modern times. And years later, they marked slogans "start Serbia", "the future in which we believe", "Serbia wins-Alexander Vucci for our children", and that is exactly what it says about SNS policy, consistency and the direction we are going and achieving our goals. And whenever you do well, regardless of what we are now in a crisis caused by the coronary virus, as is the whole world, we have a situation that the President of the Republic, as well as in 2012, is about to start fighting and war against criminal groups. It is during this period that we have individuals who come forward in the media, who don't realize that time has run over and they don't realize that there is no place for threats and blackmail and who are now threatening the President of the Republic and his family. I really think that's insane. The President of the Republic is an institution, but every man in this country who can't be threatened. I simply cannot believe that in the same period when a foreign citizen admits that he was offered money to assassinate the president of Serbia, no one says anything about it. Whether it is connected to the previous two dark characters, and it refers to Dragan Gilas and his follower, Srdjan Nog, whether they are vertically connected and defend each other because they have just declared war on corrupt and criminal groups, remains to be investigated. For a moment, I'm going to leave this topic aside because I have to notice another fact, given that last week we had agenda agreements, which are important because they refer to financial assistance to suppress the effects of the coronary virus. Instead of speaking constructively at these sessions, to adopt these agreements as soon as possible in order to implement them, one of our colleagues took the flag of the other side of the state to the parliamentary bench. I don't want to give this to him or talk too much about it, but I don't understand the procedure. If in the north of our country we live absolutely normal with 15 and more national minorities, like neighbors, friends, godfathers, relatives, then I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be like that in the south of the country. Is the motive just to get back into the middle and someone to pat you on the shoulder and say, "Well done, master, you showed them." Well, he didn't show us any colleagues, except for the insolence. There's an old saying that says that we're people, but that he's a little bit like a man. And it's really true. It is not realistic that I now draw from my bag any flag of any foreign country except the badge of the Republic of Serbia with my coat of arms and it is not realistic that we have printed any member of the law, except for the one on the agenda, because it was delivered by congregation services. Is there any possibility that the procedure was instructed by Dragan Gilas and his followers or is he simply well paid by them? I'm leaving the authorities to investigate again because I'm not judging anyone, but I'm just wondering, I'm thinking so loudly. I ask the question, which one of us is safe? One more question. Will Serbia's parliament have normal opposition? I can bring that notion closer, not to normal, but to opposition with absolutely opposite attitudes that deny and oppose ours. However, this does not speak so much of us, but of them, gentlemen, who do so. What this is all about, about us exclusively as SNS, is about our moves, steps and results, consistency and responsibility. Responsibilities when we run financials, because obviously before us no one has done it better, consistency and responsibility when we work on health care. I quote these two sectors because they speak about the quality and the way of life, but also care about older and younger generations. When part of my colleagues talks in the Assembly, often after that the paid and instructed media by Dragan Gilas know about us or some of us to say that we are bots or sandwiches. I absolutely don't care how they talk about our colleagues and what epithets give them. What I see is a lion's fight. A lion's struggle for his views, for his citizens, for the president and for Serbia. Modern and just Serbia, because it has been depressed and devastated for many decades. He can't do that anymore. For the very end, I would just like to tell the Agency that it is still doing its job consistently and calling on the police and the prosecution to be even more rigorous, because in the days when doctors, regardless of the Hippocratic oath, are making superhuman efforts to help the citizens of Serbia, what we are asking everyone is the least they can do, to do their duty, because that is what Serbian citizens expect and deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1115	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1116	President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of agencies, the Fiscal Council and the Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we are discussing here a set of work reports, which is the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, which is the Fiscal Council, which is the Agency for Securities of Values and the Agency for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedure. All these organisations and such organisations are related to the actions entrusted to them by the state, actions that are of paramount importance and importance to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we in the JS believe that the existence and work of these organizations, institutions, independent bodies, is very important for the reasons that they represent some kind of control, some kind of monitoring and some kind of regulator of certain areas of social life. We also believe that their work raises great attention to the public and to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Such organisations and agencies, in the world, even call the fourth branch of government, in addition to legislative, executive and judicial. One of the common definitions of all these bodies is their independence from the remaining three branches of government, but that independence of course needs to be understood conditionally, because if there was complete independence, we wouldn't be talking here today in this house and we wouldn't be adopting a report on work and work plans, which we're going to do during tomorrow. I'm not going to do much with the report today, for example. Corruption prevention agencies, because they talked about it a lot before my colleagues. Since 1 September, the agency itself has received not only a new name, but also a new tool in hand and the public rightly expects the results of the work. I have no doubt that these results exist, but as a man who deals with other matters and public relations, I have one extremely well-intentioned and constructive remark. In fact, we all agree here that corruption is a phenomenon that bites, eats the basic substrate of every society and state, that corruption is a phenomenon that prevents foreign investors, that corruption is a phenomenon that creates mistrust in institutions, that corruption is a phenomenon that ultimately destroys our country's economy. For this reason, we from the JS believe that the fight against corruption, in addition to the fight to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state, is, in addition to the struggle for the economic strength of our country, the creation of new jobs, the fight against corruption is one of the most important policies of this government. In the middle of the last century, German Finance Minister Franz Ecel said - the state is not a cow that feeds in the sky and the museums on the ground. Corruption is a topic that raises public attention, the public is very interested in it and, of course, all Serbian citizens. Hence, it is very important for the Agency to inform the public and citizens of its work in a timely, quality, objective and content manner. You just mentioned the site, and it's just one of my remarks. Namely, preparing for this meeting, the first thing I did, of course, was visit your site, the Anti-Corruption Agency website, and by searching it first if it wasn't finished, that there are a lot of pages that are in the works. Also, he's under-informed. Simply, the Agency seemed to focus on its direct work, and neglected the promotion of its work. But you and I both know...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1117	You're out of time, Mr. Starchevich. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1118	Here, I'll be done soon. However, you and I both know that promotion of work is almost as important as work itself, so that the Agency should pay more attention in this regard. This kind of remarks, for example, I do not have for the Agency's securities sites, and in particular I do not have for the Agency for the Protection of Public Procurement Procedures, for the simple reason that they are very informative, very relevant, with lots of links, quality selection of information and relevant institutions. A unique Serbia will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1119	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Dubravka the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1120	Dear President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, as the fight against corruption is one of the main objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is perfectly logical that the largest number of MPs has been defined to comment exactly on the Agency's report on the prevention of corruption, according to its new name. I would not be overly detailed in the analysis of the report, since those colleagues who spoke too well, but I would certainly point out the importance of the Anti-Corruption Agency, because I believe that its work is very complicated and corrupting the plans of those who planned to engage in criminal activities and to surrender to some corrupt acts. I believe that because of this strong preventive influence that the Anti-Corruption Agency has, its work represents a necessary and valuable link in the fight against corruption. However, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which adopted the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and corruption, which created procedural assumptions for a more effective fight against large-scale corruption, the corruption that enters the criminal zone, also contributed. Here, it has been two years since the application of the law, so two years since the special departments of senior public prosecutors and courts and special organisation units of the MUP started working. I think that's enough time to look back and sublime the facts that this law has produced in practice. Of all its effects, I would especially point out that the length of proceedings in corrupt criminal acts has been reduced. Namely, by looking at certain scientific papers and empirical research done on the topic of new and modern legal solutions in the field of combating corruption, I came up with data that would indicate, which is that the Special Court in Novi Sad is 29% of the total number of cases that were admitted to work solved in less than three months, 21% of the total number of cases that are, these are data for the first year of work of this special department, which is important to me to point out, so 21% of the cases are solved in less than six months, and 16% of the cases have been solved in less than a year, counting from the day of entry into work. This efficiency and speed of action is extremely important, because I think we are all agreed that more important than the threatened penalty for fighting corruption is the awareness that those involved in it will be discovered, that their actions will be detected and that such crimes will be effectively, quickly processed and that adequate sanctions will be imposed in these proceedings. That is why I believe, because of these legal solutions that I have stated, that Serbia, as well as any responsible society, has all the mechanisms to fight corruption, both the preventive ones, which are largely engaged in the Anti-Corruption Agency and these repressive ones, which I have spoken of and which have been significantly improved by the law that I have mentioned. I think it is very important that all these anti-corruption regulations that we have are equally applied to all, both corrupt and corrupt, both in the private and public sectors, to all political entities, both those involved in the electoral process and those who boycott the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1121	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Milica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1122	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected representatives of institutions, respected citizens, in their first and present presentations today, will refer to the first item of the agenda concerning the 2019 Anti-Corruption Agency's report. Reading this report, it is clear that Serbia today is a country that does not tolerate crime and corruption and whoever dares to ignore the public interest it is working for will find itself under the authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Our President, Aleksandar Vukic, has repeatedly pointed out and warned that the party's booklet will not protect anyone from breaking the law. It's not only pointed out, but we've seen the arrests of SNS officials who were suspected of committing some corrupt acts. There's no protection when it comes to SNS. However, party book owners who read Dragan Gilas think it is not valid for them. They think such a book is stronger than both law and state. The responsibility of the Anti-Corruption Agency is also established by the Law on the financing of political activities, i.e. the competence of controlling the financing of political entities, keeping records of the financial reports of political entities, then organising and coordinating election campaign monitors, as well as giving advice and opinions on the application of this law. Well, when it comes to this control of the financing of political entities, it recently came out in the media that a private production house owned by a journalist funded the broadcast of videos in the pre-election campaign on TVs N1 and Nova S. So, a private production house owned by a journalist, the media quoted Jovana Polic, as saying, paid for the broadcast of videos that she later granted to the party Dragan Djilas. Well, is it enough that only this reporter claims it has nothing to do with the opposition? Visually, these videos are very reminded of the campaign that was run by the so-called. Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Gilas. The journalist later reportedly gave the footage free of charge and when the media asked her why Dragan Gilasu, she said – well, no one else wanted to. Since it is said that no political party has paid for it, as the law requires, and since there is no legal and factual link between them, is it possible that in this case, when Dragan Gilas is in question, too? If nothing else, there is a question of public interest, while on one side we have Alexander Vukic who works tirelessly and builds both highways and bridges and factories and hospitals. You know, that highway isn't just being used by Alexander Vucic, it's using it, and it's going to be used by our people. What's being offered on the other side? Dragan Gilas, who's telling us what? How do we find a tax haven to set up some firms, how do we bypass the law to prevent corruption, how do we acquire more than 30 properties? So what job does a man in Serbia need to do? I really hope so, I believe in state institutions and I urge them to investigate all these affairs, because as much as anyone is running from the law, the hand of justice still gets him. This is what our honest people, who clearly said in June they wanted more roads and factories and hospitals. In my Požega too, the people recognized the efforts of the SNS, which in a very short time managed to move the transparency index from 40th to 54th and to find itself in the ranking of all the municipalities of Požega, instead of 65th, now in 29th place, both in my Požega and throughout Serbia. That is why the people gave full support to President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, so that our Serbia would proudly move forward, our modern and decent Serbia. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1123	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1124	Thank you, Chairman. They encourage the fact that this government is defined for the fight against corruption and crime and what we heard today from Mr Damjanovic, that the Agency will deal more with what is being sent to it. However, we have had very many interventions in the previous period just when it comes to corruption, but it is not all solved in the way it should be. In this very home, in 2019 and 2020, there have been many times talked about major corruption, multimillion-dollar corruption, for example, when it comes to roads, where from the citizens of Tutina, Sjenica, Novi Pazar, local government took money to build state, regional and city roads. We expected the Agency to review this, given that the evidence and testimony of the citizens was made public through this means, and even if once the seals of the local communities or some business, municipal, or city institutions were sealed and confirmed, that specific money was taken from the citizens for certain things that are related to road infrastructure. It is also time for the Agency to deal with many other corrupt actions for which it may not have had opportunities so far, such as the shop in the construction of the Novi Pazar stadium. We've talked about this a lot, it's been done a lot of research. Also, it is a multimillion-dollar embezzlement of funds, a construction mafia, some of which even experienced certain types of judicial epilogues, but those most responsible are not yet. They also encourage these arrests, although it is surprising that the city's eyes remain, say the city of Novi Pazar, say they stand behind those people who have committed crime, although one of them has pleaded guilty and is at the service of punishment, again the mayor says they are honest people behind whom they should stand, and he himself. It would be very important for the Agency to address the first report, after many years, of the State Auditing Institution for Sjenica, where over 262 million have already been found in the previous period of unsustained money. It would also be important for the Agency to deal with how it is possible that former Sjenica President, a SDA party gentleman, Hasbo Mujevic, signed a contract to donate 800 hectares of state surface to a foreign company as an incentive to its project. So this is something that the Agency has never dealt with, as it has not done to a sufficient extent, even large machinerys at the asylum center, such as Sjenica, where it is also one of the plants for pumping budget and each other's money. Of course, it is very important that the Agency deals with all other crimes and major corrupt affairs. I'm just going to taxively count some of these affairs that so far, even though we've pointed out many times, even giving evidence, remained mostly on verbal communication, and were never treated in the way that they should be treated. We therefore hope that after these additional mechanisms and the Anti-Corruption Agency will have more and more power and opportunity to examine these cases by the end, as is the case with what counterpart Pramenkovic mentioned today, that plant drying plant in Pestera, a Tutin municipality that has been allocated several times from the Tutina budget, a multimillion-dollar asset, which has not been completed and in which not a tenth of what was assigned to it has been spent on what is visible to the naked eye. Also, more than once in the city's budget, Tutina's funds have been allocated for the city's pipeline filter plants and many times international donations have been received, and the city's citizens still lack drinking water. So it's a really big fund-raiser. Like, say, the 80 million-long utility "Senica" that has been left by previous leadership, although the company is operating according to income. How is that possible? Where's that money? Of course, it is very important to examine the affair of the filter in Novi Pazar, where a very large corrupt action is done, through the very large state officials, then high officials, as well as what is mentioned today, and also the locality of the historical monument of Pazarište in Novi Pazar and catering facilities where large malversions are mentioned. We hope that what has only begun is just a hint of what will happen in the next period, when it comes to fighting corruption, and especially in these areas, which for years because of the different kinds of concessions have been tolerated when it comes to corruption and that we will simply welcome the end of all the evil that has destroyed and destroyed all our regions, especially those less environments or nationally sensitive ones. I'm sorry, this is what I'm going to end up with, and we think that the greatest kind of patriotism is to point to thieving, to crime, to abuse of public goods, as we do here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1125	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Nedovic. I'm sorry, colleague Nedovic, after Mr. Dejan Damjanovic answered. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1126	Since I see you're expecting my answer, my respect and thank you for believing in us, as well as for giving us this question you've given us. I'd like to draw your attention earlier that the Agency has no investigative authority. We are one preventive body dealing with corruption in accordance with our powers. What I told you in the first part, I said that we can continue, and if there is anything that applies to people who are public officials of the Republic of Serbia or civil servants in office, that all plays are welcome, that we will consider and deal with them. Eventually, when we see that something isn't for us, we pass it on to the competent state authority, whether it's the prosecution, whether it's the MUP, who has departments that deal with it, etc. Simply, the Agency does not have that authority and we do not have the opportunity to do so. You mentioned the DRI. They have their responsibilities, and they do, and when they make their decisions, they either make recommendations that require that something be resolved or corrected, and if there is a basis for something else, they initiate procedures that are the same in their jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1127	Thank you. Jahja Fehratovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1128	I thank you for this clarification. Of course, all the examples I've said are about officials, elected representatives and appointed officials, whether at a local level, whether at a republican level or not, and none of these examples of the high corrupt situation I've cited is related to anyone who isn't a functionator. That's why I think the Agency should deal with this, like all other competent authorities. Because if the Agency had dealt with this, it would have been possible to discourage those who, for years on end, misused the public funds of citizens and alienated through various kinds of machinations. Let's say that the Agency was dealing with the mayor of Novi Pazar, who for years on his private television, whose owner, paid at the monthly level a large number of financial resources, probably these other officials would not have done so, since the inaction of any state authority, including the Anti-Corruption Agency, has further encouraged all those officials to continue to endure in various types of corrupt activities. It is therefore very important that the Agency, from its level of authority, of course, deals with all these matters, as well as all other bodies in the hierarchy, properly and as prescribed by the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1129	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nedovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1130	The Honorable Chairman, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Anti-Corruption Agency contributes to raising the awareness and responsibility of the officials. Serbia has made progress in the fight against corruption. A low degree of corruption is a favourable signal for a foreign investor to arrive. The objective, responsible and independent work of the Agency reduces the level of corruption. The Serbian Progressive Party, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, advocates zero tolerance, where no one can be protected. Functions are obliged to report their assets and incomes, both their own, their spouses and children, upon entry into office, in the course of their functions, if there have been some changes and after the term of office. Thus, in 2019, a procedure was initiated for the existence of suspicion that some had not reported, or had given false information, in order to cover up their assets. During 2019, by checking the report for 212 officials, a total of 74 procedures were launched, 63 measures were made. I must point out that Serbia was removed in March 2019 – a globally unsatisfactory regime, and GREKO gave it in his report. Something that is very important is the representation of citizens, in which they point to the possibility of corruption. From January to December 2019, 373 new cases were formed, the Agency is conducting checks, gathering evidence and co-operation with state authorities and organisations. The Agency received 228 requests for access to information of public importance – by the media 156, provided the requested information 147, citizens sent 38, completely or partially provided the requested information 31, sent 26 requests to the association of citizens, and partly or fully supplied the data 25. This concludes that the Agency also has a partnership, both with the media and with citizens. She has conducted 27 trainings to improve her professional staff in the form of employee training. I must commend this report, which is very transparently shown, both in the measures implemented, as some kind of recommendation, and in raising criminal charges. I, as well as my parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, will vote for this report, but I have one question for the Agency – Has Dragan Gilas reported his property and income at the post office and at the end of the day, because it interests most Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1131	Thank you. National MP Tihomir Petkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1132	The Honorable Presidency, the distinguished representatives of four state bodies independent of whose work reports for 2019 we are today discussing, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are today discussing the reports of four state bodies – the Anti-Corruption Agency or the Prevention of Corruption, as it is called, the Fiscal Council, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and the Securities Commission. I'm going to look a little more at two of these four state bodies. As for the report of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption of Labour for 2019, it is substantial and I, of course, will vote tomorrow for the adoption of this report, according to authorised representatives of the SNS. We see from this report that there are several key mechanisms to prevent corruption used by the Agency. The first is the control of the financing of political activities, which is primarily carried out through the control of annual financial reports and reports on the costs of the election campaign, political parties and groups of citizens. We see from this report that serious control has been carried out on this basis, that the vast majority of political parties have worked in accordance with the legal provisions, some have not, suffered sanctions for this, but that in the future, special attention must be paid to the work or to what the Association of Citizens should do on this basis. The second mechanism to prevent corruption is to verify the income of public officials. We see that the Agency has done a lot of work, that a review of the report for 212 officials has been completed, that 54 proceedings have been initiated for breach of the provisions of the Agency Act, of which 63 proceedings against officials at the republican level, 11 proceedings against officials at the local level. Also, 11 criminal charges and reports were filed by the competent prosecutors. The third mechanism is to prevent conflicts of interest in public functions where the Agency is the only authority in the Republic of Serbia to decide on a conflict of interest in performing public functions. It was seen, given that the Agency received 1427 new items, that the total number of measures taken was 295, that there was a lot of work on this. Of these, the largest number of measures apply, 117 of them spoken to officials because of the commutation of functions, while 82 measures are said, second by importance and by quantity, measures in situations of conflict of interest and nepotism. Thirdly, prevention and strengthening of integrity where it is seen that the Agency has paid a lot of attention to what is most important, which is prevention, that the basis is that, together with the local self-government of the province and the republican authorities in the coming years, a much more successful fight against corruption has been fought, even though the current fight against corruption has been successful. I want to be honest with you, as well as all esteemed colleagues and colleagues, that I believe that it is of great importance for Serbia's successful and rapid development and for the quality work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and of course I am not the first to say it. We also see in this report of the Fiscal Council that the Council there says in one place that, in their opinion, Serbia is achieving a 2% lower level of GDP growth than is potential, and half of that lack of growth concerns exactly the problems of the rule of law and high corruption in the country. This, of course, was finally the most responsible person who knew our President Vukic well in 2012 and he was the one who strongly launched the fight against corruption. We know a lot has been achieved in this period, but we're all aware there's still a lot to do. We who have performed responsible functions at local levels, and we are members of the SNS, we know best how much we were expected to be an example of Serbia for legal work and we know perfectly well that we should not contact anyone at ours, as we love it in Serbia to say, and that we do not get any support for anything we have done against the law. And that is why I support everything that the Anti-Corruption Agency does or prevents corruption. I also support everything done when it comes to new officials, but also, as well as a number of my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I ask people from the Agency – what about those who were in charge of state functions in the previous period? I know some things are in your domain, I know some aren't, but the fact is that someone has to deal with it, do certain former officials, like Dragan Gilas, have 30 or five or how many apartments, 1,725 square meters of residential space, in what way is it acquired? We should all answer, not only us who belong to the SNS and the parties of our ruling coalition, but also those who tend to criticize us often, especially our most responsible officials. I, who come from Uzic, will with special pleasure mention the name of Vuk Jeremic, the president of the People's Party. I'm going to mention what the esteemed colleague Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, the eightm euros that are reasonably suspected of coming from abroad through an NGO run by him. Part of that money was used for the elections that were before us. Where did that money come from? Why do I ask that question with pleasure as a Uzican? Because the trustee of the People's Party, whose President Vuk Jeremic, launched an unfulfilled month ago, to God's sake, a request to verify the robbery in the town of Uzic, where, without any evidence whatsoever, but with the pomp political, along with a political performance, a press conference, where the deputy president of the People's Party, the authorised lawyer, had declared heroin, tried to create artificial, political, political, and other cities in Serbia, along with political performances of the affair. Would he do that? I'm not running, of course, like any of us who's been in public functions. We're all responsible, but we're responsible for something that leads against us in a serious, proven way, a way that can be proven. We can't be and no one can play with our names anyone that it's just so their party can rise, its reputation in a certain city. Would Vuk Jeremic have done that if someone had been seriously dealing with the issue of origin of these eight million euros? For me as an economist, for me who have done responsible jobs, and for everyone else, everyone here has done some responsible jobs, it's a completely unserious story that someone advises, for consulting services to some foreigners gets that money. Who today shares such money, especially those who are in their own countries, as friends of Vuk Jeremic, were prosecuted legally. So, I ask you both the Agency and all the competent state authorities to deal with people who have been in a position in the past years, and it is legitimately suspected that they were like Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, to come to money in an illegal way, because this is something that will not be illegal, or attempt by our political struggle as SNS, will already be a cure for this society. As far as I've been talking for a while, I didn't expect this much about the work of the Fiscal Council, the esteemed professor, the esteemed member of the Fiscal Council, as an economist I belong to people who truly and deeply appreciate your work, I appreciate your willingness not to agree to the decisions of the government or other state authorities. In the end, all this shows that we Serbia, a serious democratic country in which an independent body, such as yourself, is the only one responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has its position, the right to say everything. Somehow, a story has been created in the media that you often disagree with the decisions of the competent state authorities. This report shows that you have praised the decisions of the state authorities much more often than you hesitated, so to speak. In the end, you're often a respected professor. Petrovic, they said that the financial stabilisation measures that our president launched in 2014 were justified, that they had brought it, and today you talked about it, significant results, but you, with full right, are asking to continue, not to give in due to the difficult times that can always come like this, caused both by the health and economic epidemic of Kovida -19. I wanted to say a few things. It is obvious that what you have criticised is that, first of all, the government and the competent state authorities have accepted in a huge percentage. You asked with full right to increase the percentage of public investment, because you said there with full right that public investment has contributed multiplely to increasing the GDP growth rate compared to, say, the increase in pensions or wages, and that is what we rarely stress, this government and these governments have done in the previous period. You gave the report, that for ten years Serbia has invested one third less in public investment than the comparable countries in Central and Eastern Europe. We've invested about 3% of GDP, and they're about 4.5%. You stressed this and should stress this today, our government in 2018 and 2019 came to this 4.5% of GDP, investment in public investment, and this ultimately contributed to significant successes. You estimate that we should go up to 5.5%, that there is potential for this, and I believe that our government is thinking that way. In the end, just one thing. Obviously, many other things have been accepted. What is expected is to accept and talk about further increasing public investment through this NIP from 2020 to 2025, launched by our President Vukic. You say there, you estimate that you do not expect more than 13 billion euros to be realised during that period. I sincerely hope that you are wrong, that you will not be right, that right will be our most responsible state officials who expect 15 to 20 billion euros to be infrastructure investments, above all, in the direction where you say we should go, environmental protection, health care, education, travel infrastructure. We expect, we will be alive and healthy that we all look forward to that our President, Prime Minister, will be right, that 15 to 20 billion euros will be realised, especially to the joy of all our citizens. Just one more thing. You criticise, from an economic position perhaps right, that government decision at the end of 2019, that the salary increases in the state sector by 9.5% or 9.6% instead of 5.5% as you recommended as economically justified. I, as someone who ran the bar, can say one thing, politics is a complex activity, and it is not only subject to economic rules and economic laws, although they are very important. Responsible statesmen have to feel, feel the pulse of the people, have to feel when denials that were serious in the past few years when measures of financial consolidation were implemented, at one point the challenge of people being dissatisfaction and a responsible statesman, such as Aleksandar Vukic, has, in my opinion, felt the moment when citizens needed a good part of the citizens, those working in the public sector, made it clear that the denials that were all of us citizens of Serbia in the past years have contributed to the possibility that even though there may be a slightly greater increase in wages that came this moment and I think that psychologically it was very good. I think it also sends a clear message to those who work in the private sector, because as much as we want them to pay in the private sector, they won't be until they're even bigger in the public sector in terms of pressure on people who operate the private sector, of course, in line with the possibilities. So I believe that, and the proof that it wasn't the wrong decision to increase public sector wages by 9.5% is that it didn't prevent an increase in the gross social product rate this year. On the contrary, in the first quarter, that rate was 5.1% if I remember correctly, the largest in Europe. Of course, then Kovid came, everything is happening, but what you said was that in the end we all agree that thanks to the government's serious measures, the president, the finance minister, Serbia is in a much better position than it was before. Let's remember that in 2012, she was at the foot of bankruptcy. Thanks to all of this, we're here to support what you're doing in the Fiscal Council. I'm sure we'll all try to achieve the goals you set together as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1133	Thank you. Next on the list according to the application for the word is Parliament of People Ana Beloica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1134	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, it is an honor and a pleasure to have the opportunity to talk today about a subject that is particularly important and close to me, it is certainly the subject of the economy. We are ahead of us with a set of reports on how independent issuer institutions in the Republic of Serbia were doing their job, that is, how they did it during 2019, and it is completely undeniable that the SNS parliamentary group will accept those reports so defined. But what is particularly interesting to me as economists is certainly an analysis of the Commission's report on securities of value, which clearly and unequivocally shows that there is a rise in the role and importance of the capital market in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This is best explained by the fact that during 2019 the total value of investment in the regulated market was 46% higher than in 2018. It is also important to note that there is also a rise in the number of foreign investors who want to invest their assets in the capital market of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it didn't happen overnight, you'll agree with me. It was necessary to grow the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in the international community, which is certainly the result of SNS policy, one effective policy by Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, road infrastructure investment policy, public infrastructure investment policy, health care, education, digitalisation and all that leads to the growth of the standard of living of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about foreign investment, I can't leave out one fact, which is that even when we talk about foreign direct investment, we leaders not only in Europe, but in the whole world. In fact, there is hardly any city where at least one factory was not built and at least hundreds of people were employed. That is why we can talk today about the fact that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the unemployment rate is 7.3%, so at a record low, regardless of our economy, along with unfortunately all other economies of the world have been cut down by the pandemic of the coronary virus. Mr Aleksandar Vukic pointed out in his time that there will be a uniform regional development in Serbia, namely that southern Serbia will develop as well as the northern part of our country. The people of Raska from whom I come and who I represent in this House today can testify. In Raška, after 30 years, so three decades later, a brand new factory was built in Raška thanks to donations from the United Arab Emirates. So far, 300 people have been employed, although up to 700 people are expected to be employed in the coming period. So that's 700 families at the level of a small local self-government like Raska. We also tried to solve the problem of the sewerage network in the territory of Raška Municipality and built a wastewater processing collector. However, one is a burning problem in the territory of our small local self-government, which is certainly the departure of young people. We wanted to warn this problem and to offer citizens something new by wanting to take advantage of the untapped tourist potential of the Raška municipality, we invested 1.3m euros in the construction of the swimming pool, the construction of the balneological bathroom and the complete equipment of the tourist reception facility, both domestic and foreign. This is how we wanted to offer a complete tourist offer. So, we have Banish tourism that is in turn, we have Kopalnik as the most important tourist center in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and probably beyond, and I'm not even a little subjective when I say that Kopalnik is the most important tourist center in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we have a huge number of cultural and historical monuments on the territory of our local self-government. So we wanted to create an ambience where young people can find their jobs, find their jobs, and build their families right here on their eternal hearth. We don't plan to stop there. We plan to build on, work and fight to achieve all the goals defined by the Agenda "Serbia2025". The promises we made to our citizens and the results that we have achieved and that are behind us are those that make us go forward, fight, work, build, work and create a better and better future for our children, because we all get only when Serbia does not lose. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1135	Thank you. The word has Sandra Christmas's folk emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1136	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear People's MPs, honored guests of the National Assembly and reporters by today's agenda points, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, my colleague Ivana Popovic, in today's presentation as an authorised representative of the legislator group Aleksandar Vucic – has rightly concluded for our children that your reports are really talking about you being serious in 2020, which is practically finally behind us, in her part-round work really with some visible results practically, but right now when we talk about December 1st, I can say slowly finish. What is far more important, which I would put an accent on at this point, is the fact that some of you before have not worked so correctly, transparently, and for each of your institutions, that means above all the working conditions, especially good work, and that these institutions have been arranged through the Republic of Serbia's system in some previous period, I think that Serbia's political scene would indeed look far different today. In that name, I would ask myself, let's say, since the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption during a period that was close, marked 10 years of its existence and work, asked some of the individuals who had managed this agency in some years that practically meant the start of the Agency's work - how did they actually carry out their work? I think it would be really meaningful if we could compare some of the data from those previous years, from 2009, let's say, 10 years later. I think we'd really come to different conclusions, but what doesn't stop us from drawing some conclusions today is that certain window washers and ham dealers, not to say the other very different word - ham smugglers, have reached a position of 619 million. Practically, what I want to mention is, yes, of course, we all know who this is about when you mention 619 million, you can't, in addition to that name, which is certainly the most sound when we talk about millionaires, especially those in euros, you don't mention who that refers to, it's directly Dragan Gilas. We see that lately he has been active and Brother Gojko, who certainly all the malfeasances related to the functioning of their company, supports, even more, somewhere and participates in certain percentages. But what's important is that when we talk about those 619 million we've forgotten a little bit, it seems to me, and very often now I have a chance for the citizens to ask me -- wait, wait, wait, you're talking about that 619 million, so what exactly is that 619 million, where is that money, in what way is practically Dragan Gilas figuratively put that money in his pockets? Then I realize, in fact, that we here are not talking enough about everything that Dragan Gilas has celebrated in his previous political mandate and I am going to use today, since we are talking, among other things, about the report of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and my present-day exposure to reminding the MPs, who certainly know it well, but also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in which way Dragan Gilas gained 619 million. We're not going to trace all 619, but we're going to track down most of these millions of corrupt and maybe encourage, if we're not in 2009, in 2010, maybe today we can encourage the prosecution to do its part of the job and finally track down, and it's very difficult and complicated, you'll see from my presentation, and I'll just ask the MPs for patience in advance, since you know that for literally one corruption affair of Dragan Gilas is enough for one whole session, we can freely as a part of the agenda to place it here in the National Assembly and discuss it all day. However, I will try to be very concise and to present it very briefly, but to remind the citizens of Serbia of all that are the misdeeds of Dragan Gilas, because it is not so often that an ordinary student, who escaped from the country practically at the time of the war wind, who hit our country, so that you do not serve the military deadline, and then you get to be in Czech Republic in some kind of business with ham, I would not go further into the idea of what kind, so that you would suddenly become a millionaire through the window cleaner and what kind of thing. Given how much we know his uplifting to the DS was dizzy, because it's very strange that a man in DS, especially the weight of how difficult Dragan Gilas is, those 619 million to us known, and for us unknowns who know how long it took him to get in that whole transition section of DS and the time we lived in a lot of corruption affairs up to the DS, but it seems to me that he quickly managed to cash in and practically get to the position in which he gave himself virtually everything. Practically in 2004, Dragan Gilas entered politics. Known or unknown Dragan Djilas only then became known for all of his student activities in the general public because he obviously did not want him in the DS before. So in 2004, when it gets somewhere on the political scene, it really works really fast to pick up all the functions it could at the time, and since the prey has already been sold out between the DS members, we remember how well, and it would take us a year of good sessions to figure out how many of them from DS and other satellites really have been taken from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but certainly Dragan Gilas is one of those who had the most head-up and most impressive careers. So we can talk about his different functions. I will make an effort to sublime everything, but probably the moment he entered the political scene, Dragan Gilas practically increased his value, the value of his companies that he had and created for himself was unwarranted opportunities, and of course for his brother Gok, since we will see from my exposure that practically Gojko Gilas is part of Multicom all the time. So it sounds amazing that this man was admitted to the DS, as I said in 2004, and that from 2004 until the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 he served as Director of the National Office of the President of the Republic. From May 2007 to 2008, he was the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia in charge of implementing the national investment plan, and the answer to the question why he was not in high politics is this particular weight that I mentioned recently because practically Dragan Gilas had to wait for his price to rise and then simply cash in and make his material logistics and cash his political capital. Only in 2005, when it was certain that it had been confirmed in these management waters, so-called. Business system, we all know the Multicom Group with a founding role of close to 1.5m euros or 49% of ownership and its company "Darrekt Media" is now known, as well as the company "Emoush Salesksn", which has a license for the first reality show in Serbia. What is interesting is that Multicom was founded in 2005, but it was already not hidden from the public in 2006 to earn 55m euros. I remind you, Dragan Gilas was then the director of the National Office of the President of Serbia. Also, Gilas' "Darekt Media" in the same period had a total income of around 43m euros. During 2007, Gilas earned 83.8m euros, and his company's income increased by almost 50% compared to last year. At that time, he is finally running for mayor of Belgrade after some regrettable ministry and an attempt to lead the government's president who obviously remains a frustration to this day. The so-called National Office, there's no need to talk about it, absolutely none of the only problems it has in its name, and as far as the people are concerned, has never solved it, but probably profited from it. The monopoly that has at that time over the media space in Serbia has started spreading to other countries, and it is not until this day that the foreign company run by Dragan Gilas, and an anemic institution such as the one dealing with anti-monopol politics, the anti-monopol commission, in the end, I must point out, nor have the other state authorities at any point dealt with any possible way in which Dragan Gilas is actually trading in advertising space and seconds. It was expected to do so on TV B92, where he was co-founder, but certainly on RTS as a public service it was very questionable how he did it, given that he was an absolute monopoliest, with as much as 55% of the total advertising market in his hands. The official percentage of his company's increase, which is very interesting, the "Darect Media" at the time of his directment to the National Office was 983%. In the short, but criminal history of this transition, this miracle is practically not remembered, not recorded until 2006, when Gilas won all his necessary state functions, that is, the clean annual income of his company ranged between 30m and 50m euros. Presenting himself persistently as a certified humanist, which was certainly sincere, probably only for its own benefit, it is little known to the public that Dragan Gilas also became the owner of the Ovejsn Advertisement company in which the registration literally writes - giving gifts and providing services. So the growth of the agency's income would certainly be the subject of some kind of investigation in the normal state, but not in Gilas's promised country and at his political playground as Belgrade was and as Serbia was. Millions acquired in this way, literally by budget grips have never been examined. In order to remind the public, I also have before me a list of Gilas firms, which is practically obsolete and so far we would have to deal with a little more practically Gilas, who now has no obligation to report, so correct me if I am wrong, given that he is not a functioner, there is no obligation to report his incomes, no company, no business, but certainly that a moral obligation exists, as someone representing himself as a representative and leader of the opposition. We could certainly look at the entire list of assets Dragan Gilas has along with his brother, Gojko Gilas. So, a detailed list of Gilas companies looks like this: "Multicom Group", "Multicom Rent", "Beletim", "Darrekt Media", "Darrekt Media - Pablik riljsans Belgrade", "Darrekt Media Skopje", "Darrekt Media Sarajevo", "Darekt Media Podgorica", "Park Event Promotion", "DM Marketing International", "Sports a.d.", "Big print", "Frendi", "Emousn Salesksn", "Ovejsn Advertisementing", "Multicom Group", a company for multimedia communications that is practically the mother of all these daughters companies. There are also companies: "Multicom rent", "Beletim", and there are also "Darekt Media Skopje", Sarajevo, Podgorica, "Spark Event Promotion", there is his "DM Marketing International". However, what is particularly interesting to me in this whole list and document are also Gilas' companies dealing with accounting and accounting affairs and control affairs, tax-related advisory jobs. Well, I guess it's a very early idea of how to organize and start a Luxembourg TV that will be used here as its extended political hand. I guess it's just been created right now. It's the most famous firm, certainly next to "Multicom" is "Emoushn Salesksn", it's actually a consulting company, but I'll deal with it later. So, to the astonishment of the public at the time, but certainly not the institutions that did not respond at any single moment, the monopoly of advertising in Serbia that Gilas had with his companies had a wide range of those who advertised in his media space in seconds, which is the list of highly respected representatives of different agencies. However, most of these agencies, very interestingly, come from countries where they are very strict state rules in terms of administration, at each step they sanction monopoly etc. examines, of course, the origin of every euro or dollar in transport, and we do not know that just at that time when we do not talk and we are not talking, I certainly do not know how many foreign investors have come to Serbia, there are very few persons, and for what reason. For the reason that each of the company had an obligation that was premonitioned that when they came to Serbia, everything they had from advertising needs actually had to be met at Gilas's advertising agency, its media space. So many, i.e. most at the beginning, gave up precisely on these millions of pre-requested ractarian malfeasances, and those who were booming there, testified, as the former commercial director of the Slovenian company South, who moved some of its production to Serbia, admitted that one of the conditions to come to Serbia was precisely that marketing funds were given to the ruling coalition agency. So, representatives of foreign firms like this, Serbia was practically an eldorado for the extra profit of corruption that they actually share with Gilas and his satellites at the time. Just to remind myself that the entire empire does not end here, that the megalomanic idea of having absolutely every function in the country is not ending here, at one point Dragan Gilas is also transferring all his malversions to sport, as the president of the basketball union of Serbia, where the number of his roles, functions and responsibilities in the country has been combined. However, the biggest damage, Dragan Gilas, is right at the head of Belgrade's city, as mayor. The immeasurable damage of Belgrade citizens, unfortunately, despite the fact that the SNS has managed to bring most of what Dragan Gilas has done and damaged Belgrade's city, has regained and Belgrade has put on its good feet and made further progress. I will remind you, Belgrade City's main debt at a time when Dragan Gilas was mayor of Belgrade amounted to a billion and 200,000 dinars. The bad policy of the mayor, apart from debts, resulted in what is pulling the next item, which is huge unemployment and collectively when you add up budget users who were certainly part of the system and unmistakable obligations, we come to the fact that the consequences that the Belgraders are practically feeling today were really inconceivable. I will remind only some of the affairs that relate specifically to Belgrade, at a time when Dragan Gilas was mayor, that is the Bus-plus system, the reconstruction of boulevards, the reconstruction of many other streets in Belgrade, the paved squares, where companies that have a month or so around the date of existence and the capital of 500 euros are defeated. The most profitable job that Dragan Gilas is famous for is the famous Adi bridge, which cost about 500m euros, which was practically Dragan Gilas himself during the election campaign at the end of 2011 rushed to open in order to take a picture, but that picture was required by Belgrade citizens to pay an additional 14.3m euros. I'll remind you once again that the estimated value of construction works on the Ada Bridge was actually 124.5 million. As Dragan Gilas reached almost and close to 500 million, it remains a secret forever. After all, there remains one open question again, an open item for you and independent, regulatory authorities, but also for everyone else, primarily the prosecution, to finally determine how and how many Beogradians paid for the bridge on Ada, and how far it went in the pockets of Dragan Gilas. We're not going to talk, of course, and there's no need to get into the Bus-plus affair and the absolute reorganization of the entire city transport, we know and know in what way Dragan Gilas managed to earn his first million. There's another affair that's very unknown to the public, forgotten. I would remind myself of this occasion, and it's not that it's irrelevant and it's very interesting because even there are elements for the prosecution, which can still be escorted today and can be responded to. As he robbed Belgraders through megalomanic productions at the building of a bridge on Ada or a Bus-plus system, he continued his thieving activity in Serbia's state lottery. Although the state lottery is actually using a complicated, international network of companies for its works, Dragan Gilas managed to impose his existence and position his business, again the daughters of the company "Multicoma", Darekt lotu d.o.o. who only received the right to distribute lottery products from the Serbian State lottery and allegedly everything done under the law and the Darekt lot got the job, because this company was the only one in the country with reference. That just sounds amazing for a company that was founded on February 17th 2011, and the lottery contract won already on March 12th 2011. So, for a full month. Darekt Lot was supposed to speed up sales of lottery products under the contract, but in reality, traffic has been halved from 100m euros annually to only 50m. It's probably the only example in the world that the institutions of this species are at a loss. So the question is, where's the rest of this 50 million? So when you add this up, you don't get to 619, but you get close. I mean, if the authorities did their part of the job properly to get to the whole number or at least part of it. Money hunter, one of the most famous officials, also had the need to build some sort of complex for children at the part of the salary, land belonging to the city of Belgrade, under the pretext that they would build some sort of complex for children, build and well-known everyone's house "Emoushn", which recorded "Great Brother", or Dragan Gilas, made it possible to actually enter Serbia through "Great Brother". His company "Emoushn Salesksn" is illegal, it is a common known thing, took this land from Pionir's work, or from the city of Belgrade, and after the disputed facility was built, all the papers were subsequently manufactured, all the permits needed to make use of this facility. What is interesting, Dragan Gilas thus enabled the construction of 1,967 m2 of business space that he rented for only 416 euros per month for an eight-year period. At the same time, he made millions of pure profits. To make crime even bigger, the fees for the use of city building land that Gilas took from the city of Belgrade were charged and charged at a price of 20% cheaper than real property, as a state institution, i.e. the pioneer city, and not the actual investor "Emoushn Salesksn". Let's not talk about whether or not we need to get into the nature of whether or not there really should have been a child-related object. So, finally with the date of entry into use of this facility, Emouschn Salesksn made an investment of 85,361,000 dinars in a built-up facility that practically, when it comes down to everything, paid incredible 0.21 euros per square metre. I don't think that in Serbia's history, no less money business space has ever been rented and that no one has in any way seen this malversion that was absolutely possible at Dragan Gilas' political playground. So when we talk about further corruption affairs, of course there are many more. One of these is Telecom. I don't need to remind the public that it's those who, after Krusik, tried to get this company home, which is doing a great job, on its knees and in the same way that they damaged and damaged Krusik by their practical insinuations and malversions, do the same thing to Telecom. But what the public may have forgotten, because I have not heard anyone with these elements address the public and say what was known in the period during which Dragan Gilas was the absolute master of the city of Belgrade and beyond, is that he was directly responsible for the "Telecoma" robbery in 2011, when the state-owned company under his pressure was forced to buy even four sports "Arena" cable channels for 7.7m euros. The offer was also given to Republika Srpska's "Telecom" who, explaining his refusal, said it was absolutely not necessary at that time for Telecom, and under the same excuse, not by excuse, but by the reason "Telekom" Serbia rejected this original Gilas offer, to eventually be forced to buy four cable channels for 7.7m euros, although at that time Telecom was not allowed to own the media. Of course, for who knows which time, the budget money is paid, actually paid to private persons, which later becomes a very wide practice of Dragan Gilas. On all these allegations, he also addressed the Council on the fight against corruption in 2011, and pointed out in the report, I quote - there is strong political pressure and that three major problems are the non-transparentity of media ownership, the economic impact of state institutions on the work of the media through various types of budgetary givings and the problem of RTS, which instead of the role of public service plays a role in the service of political parties. There was no adequate response to this complaint by the Anti-Corruption Council. Now let's translate all of this into what we survive today by the Freedom and Justice Party and who practically continues to conduct a certain part of the media space, that whenever you bury in this way by what Dragan Gilas did, and this is just the tip of the iceberg, you get to Gojko Gilas, up to 28, then a little bit more scratch, up to 35 apartments, down to the hectares and literally hectares of their business space, which, thanks to financial malversions, or transferring practically ownership roles from the company to the firm, these two tycoon brothers managed to practically maintain until today, and no institution in the state is interested in what way they came to justify the part, absolutely one ar of their business space. To this day, no one. It is absolutely certain that when you scratch on this surface of Dragan Gilas is becoming very sensitive to me and it is the biggest alarm and an indication of how and how the state authorities have something to deal with here. That's exactly when Dragan Gilas starts attacking journalists, threatening journalists. You had a chance to see the other day that he directly threatened anyone who said the name Dragan Gilas or Gojko Gilas, all the way to a journalist who did it as part of her work in the diary, Bojana Ordinac directly, and only then, of course, to those responsible for certain media. I suppose it's hard for a political coward to deal with such people, that it's the easiest thing to do with journalists, especially if a journalist is a woman. Then there's absolutely maybe a nice field of action and for some psychologist or psychiatrist who will explain absolutely how Dragan Gilas thinks, because a normal man can't be clear and can't be right and why and how Dragan Gilas managed to get all these millions into the locals and probably transfer, now I can't argue, but I don't suppose you can't put 619 million in your pockets, but through certain financial paradises that exist, there are good warehouses and continue to run politics in Serbia as if we're not there and we're starting from the point of view that Dragan Gilas is poor and honest and that way we treat him and treat him. Well, we won't treat it like that, we know it's a convicted thief, we know it's a transition or a transition, whatever you want, and you know what I mean and what period it's all about, the bandit. The bandit will one day answer to the authorities you represent both the authorities and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1137	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Rosalia Ekres and Daniel Giovanni, elected from the Election List of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians Istvan Pastor. On the basis of the RIK Decision and the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Rosalia Ekres and Daniel Jovanovic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask that they prepare to take an oath. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. I ask the MPs to repeat after me the text of the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to uphold the duty of the National Envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate you on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf on the election for MPs and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Next on the list is the People's MP Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1138	Dear chairman, honored guests, respected fellow Members of the Parliament, respected citizens, this extraordinary presentation that you just heard from your colleagues, Christmas is as simple as we agreed, and believe us we are not, an extraordinary introduction to what I have to say. First, let me say that I witnessed for five years as a council member of the city of Belgrade from 2008 to 2013, all of what Mrs. Christmas was saying about affairs in Belgrade. I welcome, of course, the Agency's report on, still when it's written, the fight against corruption is now called a little better, especially this chapter that stands there – the strengthening of the mechanism for preventing corruption, as well as the departments within that part – co-operation with state bodies, strengthening social awareness and research and analysts. I just want to say that the Agency should be encouraged that these departments and this section develops even stronger and more freely and that it does its job in accordance with Article 33. The law. It is true that the Agency is not an investigative authority, but it can co-operate closely with the investigative authorities, can with the police, can with the prosecution, can also with the Council of Anti-Corruption and with other authorities. Simply, we have one report, of course I will vote for it, but it is not enough to approach only this whole matter, I am talking about matter, and not the report, it is not enough to approach only dryly, but it must exist in this area, because it is also the area of financial forensics, which is not sufficiently represented by us in Serbia at all, must be approached alive and effectively. Because it's living matter, you have to cross data with other organs, draw conclusions, and similar to what Verica Baraq did in her famous 2011 report by Mrs. Christmas. I would just look back, of course, it's not about the current agency, but it's about, in particular, I have to point out because for the first time I'm talking about the Agency's work period from 2009 to 2012, when Mrs. Zorana Markovic, who was a disaster, I just have to say so. You in no report from the Agency, normally, but not the Anti-Corruption Council, which has been very weak in the last few years of your work, will find the following information, but I will give it to you, because it is very important and I will make a parallel. No cousin of Alexander Vukic, Sinishi Mali, Goran Vesic, Radojić, any member of the government, any member of the city government has become rich in this period of seven years, nor have these persons that I counted. Watch out, nobody. And today we find out and we heard this epic almost uttered by Mrs. Christmas, today we find out that dear brother Gojko Gilas, only he has 35 properties, the cousin of Dragan Gilas. So how is that possible? It's possible because, here, let me give this example too – we've never actually heard that man exist before. You know why we didn't hear? Because SNS will not, nor will it ever attack cousins of Dragan Gilas, unlike the Gilasites, Gilas and his men who attack daily President Vukic's family and often threaten them with death. I remind you, dear brother has 35 properties. Dear second brother, Dragana Gilas, has 619m euros. You see now, there comes this motive – dear brother, who reminds us a little of that lullaby, you know that – Frere Gojko, are you asleep? So, dear brother, are you asleep? I can tell you, the Gilas brothers are sleeping very badly these months. Not because of their conscience, they have no conscience, but because we don't let them sleep peacefully, because we keep asking them how they got so rich, especially the dear brothers Dragan Gilas. I think it will be interesting for the Agency to inform them of a phenomenon that is also related to the city of Belgrade and then I will link two phenomena, which was that by 2012, a legal robbery of budgets was possible. So, an example is the Belgrade City Land Directorate. From 2004 to 2011, the budget of the city of Belgrade, i.e. the Directorate, was robbed by 291m euros. Yes, you heard me well, 291 million euros, over 40 million each year, over seven years. How was this enabled? It was possible that the Directorate itself, led by representatives of Democratic Gilas and Tadic's party and the city of Belgrade, who led both Gilas and his predecessors, brought such corrupt regulations, so they allowed investors not to pay contributions to the Directorate for seven years. But you see, that could've been said -- oh, by accident, one year. Like, they didn't know the regulations were bad. This took seven years. What else is in common with this other case of Dragan Gilas? No one was responsible for this crime. Now, we come to how Dragan Gilas got rich in ten years, so he didn't get rich, you heard Mrs. Christmas's story, the history, he didn't get rich until 2004, he got rich from 2004 to 2013, for ten years. On three government functions, he gained 619 million business revenue and 106 million net profits. Well, that's amazing. Dragan Gilas, what I'm telling you now, admitted, in a letter in "Today" in November 22, 2018, to some less than half, that one of his companies had earned 292m euros. But he didn't have one big firm, but two, and a lot, we'll get to it, smaller firms. All that when you add up to this 619 million income and it's inevitable again, and I think you as representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency are now asking yourself – how is it possible to get so rich? Was that through trade, influence? I say it is. Was that through abuse of official position? I say it is, because it is only so possible, that someone traded ten years in a period of three state functions and then gained 619m euros and was deputy president of the Democratic Party, was mayor and was chairman of the City Committee of the DS. That's what made it possible. So, as we can see, I've listed two cases where there was a possible legal robbery. In the case of Dragan Gilas, which is sad, it was not until 19th that an investigation has been carried out, no one has dealt with it, nor with this case of Belgrade City. I cited the exception, it's the only Verica Barac, and it's clear in the 2011 report, I pointed to his machinations. When Verica Barac died in 2012, no one was involved in it anymore, neither the Agency nor the prosecution nor the Anti-Corruption Council, no one. But what's wrong with that? I'll tell you, it's a bad thing that we have now to determine first that anomaly for the City of Belgrade, that 291m euros were being robbed, no one was answering, and that in the case of Dragan Gilas, what he acquired, 619m euros, in three functions, no one was responding, and the data is indisputable. We find this out now, for dear brother Gok. How is it possible that a person who practically doesn't do anything, who didn't earn anything, however, Gojko Gilas is dealing with those tasks of speculative and machination that his brother has given him, these are the business of offshore opening companies, other companies in the environment. So when we scrape up the data Mrs. Christmas said, look out, these are companies in Serbia, Gilas had at least 26 of them in Serbia alone. But he boasts he has a number of companies in four, five, six, surrounding countries, so multiply that by an even more appropriate number of companies. Well, a number of offshore companies he and his brother have are being discovered these days. So we're coming up with a bench, a cluster, from a hundred firms. And I tell the Agency, you need an army of financial forensics to take this snake ball apart. However, Dragan Gilas was the official until 2016, i.e. He then resigned in October as president of Serbia's basketball union. As far as I know, from obsolescence, which is five years old, it's shared by the next year of October. It's just that I want to say this, too, means to inform the Agency's representatives as well. On July 7th 2019, police against tycoon Gilas and his associates said they were being investigated for serious corruption in connection with the purchase and sale of advertising TV seconds, according to RTS, with suspected suspicions by police and prosecutors that RTS was damaged by 688 million. Following the suspect's hearing, an order has been issued to conduct an investigation into the case by the Prosecutor's Office of the Direkt Media. Now I call, that's about the end of what I have to say, I call on the Agency to comply with its powers as members of 75, if that is possible, and I think it is, initiate an emergency check on the Dragan Gilas report, which he submitted by 2016, on suspicion that the reports did not report accurate, complete data. I'm pretty sure it hasn't been five years, and now I haven't been able to figure out what the deadline is, but here you just have to, but in cooperation with other organs, there's no one else, or to encourage the Council to do a little bit of work, to do what, eventually, you can't, to deal with this problem, and then to get to one report in 2021, ten years after Verica Barac, where they're going to state again, at 10 years later and 619 million euros later, what Dragan Gilas was doing, at least that some authorities say that, unless the authorities, except for what I said about RTS, can't do anything about it. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1139	Thank you, Mr. Copper. The People's Messenger, Milenko Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1140	Thank you very much, Mr. Orlic. Already in the introduction of this report on page 11, the Anti-Corruption Agency's report, which is now the Anti-Corruption Agency, although my first name is more acceptable, more beautiful, against corruption, because it is a monster that breaks every society. So, in that report, the Agency sort of, come on, I can't say thank you, but in any case, it indicates that the state of Serbia had an understanding of what the Agency's demands were and allowed the employment of additional people. That shows the state's relationship to this agency. It shows that the state of Serbia has a serious intention, that this government has a serious intention to counter corruption, is suppressed as much as possible and reduced to the lowest possible extent. As the best evidence for this, it is the fact that no corruption suspect on behalf of the SNS, therefore, the SNS representative is protected and not seen through his fingers. It's a drastic change compared to some period that was before us. I know that there are people who are very upset when they say what was in the previous period, but it's necessary to show the difference, because if you don't compare it to something that's happening now, someone would think it's normal that one government when some of them functioners at some level don't break the law, and in terms of protecting it and so on, but it wasn't as normal as yesterday. Not that it wasn't normal for their officials to be prosecuted or otherwise sanctioned but to allow their officials to become unrich, because what we hear today and what my colleagues are talking about, and as far as Mr. Dragan Gilas is concerned, it's not a fortune, it's something that a normal man can't imagine. A normal man cannot imagine, the average citizen of Serbia cannot understand what 619m euros is. The road from Kickinda to Somboro, from Nakov to Bačko Breg, costs about 700 million, with four lanes, a fast traffic station, most modernly built, costs as much as Dragan Djilas, or how many companies Dragan Đilas have earned, as counterpart Atlagic would say – behold, miracles, at the time when Mr Gilas performed political functions. Now I'm asking the agency's representatives, and I'm asking us, and we're all wondering if that's what Mr. Gilas went ahead of time to do lobbying and when there was no law. Well, Dragan Gilas was a politician lobbying for Dragan Gilas of the businessmen, so he lobbied 619m euros. Did he find a magic lamp, so some ghost brought him that money or found some very generous man who did it for him? The answer is that he worked with himself, and then he probably got confused, he seemed schizophrenic or whatever, and then he turned on his brother Goke, but this way in two is easier. Someone said here in sanctioning officials that there should be an intention, I insist on that word, the intention to cover up the property. Very often, fellow MPs, some other officials at the local, province level, were sanctioned infractions, not because they intended to cover up their property, but because they were late in delivering their mandatory report. The deadlines are clear, it's nothing controversial, but if you're interested in what your intention is to cover up your property, then listen to what your colleagues told you about Bakarec and Christmas. When you start a firm in Delaware, when you start a firm in Montenegro, when you start these companies by the principle, as Marko Bulat instructed him – friends, brothers, godfathers, they're about the owners of the company, and all the companies work for him, for Dragan Gilas, and nothing goes on him, and he has nothing, and then he has everything, and then he reports 25m euros in property, alone. That's not what I said, that's not what Aleksandar Martinovic said, that's not what Aleksandar Vukic said, that's what Dragan Gilas told himself. Then I ask the question, how can we put into the same equation of who has been late for a day or two and who has hidden 25m euros in assets? It can't be the same, not at all. There is still that game, today I found a picture on the Internet, when I was a kid I had this copy of the game "Monopoly", it was called "Belgrade Monopoly", so it was Terrace, the Prince of Mihajlova, and now in that monopoly it was the main idea to build a house, get real estate, so when the other one stops at that property, he pays for something. Today that monopoly is fully held by the Gilas brothers. In each of those fields, they have some real estate. This is what "Belgrade Monopoly" looks like today. But it's not in the Agency's reports, it's not in the Agency's registers. You'll say, of course, and there you're absolutely right, we can't conduct investigations. I'm just wondering who's finally gonna start investigating this country, and is someone finally going to be responsible for what 619 million euros a pair of people took and put in their pocket? They say, when these videos are, and I'm very interested in how they're going to be presented in the next report of the Agency, this is very important now, this year, in the election campaign, that's what you're in the business area, that's something you're in charge of, and I'm asking you to pay attention to it, and I'm curious about what it's going to look like in the next report, I'm already looking forward to, if, of course, this synergy is being analysed and debated about your report, or some other, to see what it's going to look like. She says that this journalist defended herself with it – no one else wanted videos, so he took Gilas. Probably no one else wanted apartments, so he took Gojko Gilas. What, when a man's lucky in life, he'll have everything he wants. There's another thing that happened last year, it's also not in the report, and you're going to say again – we can't investigate it – I find it very interesting, because it can talk about a few things. He can talk about illegal lobbying, he can talk about corruption, he can talk about everything. In the last three months of 2019, the Serbian dedicated industry lost $30m. She had closed contracts with Saudi Arabia. There was nothing out of those contracts. The business of the Serbian dedicated industry has been taken over by three Bulgarian companies, called VMZ, Arsenal and Dunarit. I'm curious now, if someone's been running a campaign for months, homeless, based on lies, against the Serbian dedicated industry, and if the result of that operation is a loss for that dedicated industry of $30 million and the benefit of another dedicated industry of $30 million, is there any element for anything? Or we'll have to wait for someone else to report their property, and then we'll say, "Well, now, you see, this apartment is suspicious, so we'll see what it is." So, the key question asked by the old Romans who hit the basis of today's European continental law, were not top experts in criminal law, more in civil law asked in fact all of what today's legal institutes were, but in criminal law they said one question should be asked, which is - what kind of bono, or - what benefit? Is this the direct work of some people in Serbian politics, Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilas, or who for some foreign companies? Is that the corrupt work of politicians? Is this illegal lobbying, where you literally threw all the possible lights and trees and stones at your own dedicated industry and thus allowed the foreign dedicated industry to make 30 million dollars in revenue, did you commit any violations of the law in Serbia? Of course, these are questions that, unfortunately, remain without an answer, as do the questions left without answering that in Serbia, in general, where does the right of someone who sets up dozens, hundreds of companies and companies whose official or informal owner is, in order to avoid paying taxes to the state of Serbia, have the right to do any public work in Serbia at all? And to transfer to the daily level what hasn't been done! Well, pay your taxes, master, so it'll be done! Taxes charge the budget. Let me get this straight. So what the report says is very interesting, but I find everything that doesn't appear in the report much more interesting. I hope that in the next period you will find a way, at the end of the day and lobbying, why not, for the changes in the laws that define your functioning and work, to really make one serious institution that will be able to work, I'm not saying that this non-serious one, I'm just saying with a broader scope of action, and some investigative actions, and that it will be able to do based on what we all see with its own eye to react. Not to get into a situation that even today, we live what was a joke in the movies "Silent skin" etc. We live it. A sentence by Srecko Sojic – I was muækting, but in accordance with the regulations, Dragan Djilas has lived in life. That's what we watch every day. The citizens of Serbia are sick and tired of it. The Court of Appeals of every bastard they bring there frees, rightfully. Every thief in this country has paper that's innocent as a child's tears. Serbian citizens can't take it anymore, because they know what kind of lowlifes have become millionaires and know when they became millionaires – at the time they were poor, at the time their companies were closed. And they're waiting for the answer to that! They wait for the day when they will finally have a chance to see those who have destroyed his past and his future match. I hope so, and I'm sure that day will come. At the very end, as far as the current officials are concerned, to be absolutely clear there, I absolutely support the strictest measures against every member and official and SNS and all coalition partners who break the law. There is no greater villain than he who hid behind Alexander Vukic and while Vukic works for Serbia he works for himself. To those, be the sharpest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1141	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1142	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of independent state bodies, one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia is just to fight crime and corruption. Crime and corruption, the cancer of every society, and the Republic of Serbia. It's hard to get in a bike with criminals, you know why? They're afraid of people. They're afraid of the people and the data we're going to provide about them, but we're going to take it out. We have a president who's not afraid of anything. The more you threaten him, the braver he gets. Unfortunately, it's tragic that the tycoons, that the villains deal with his family, his children, and in the most brutal, are the most morbid way to spit on his family. Guys, that's not what you do. If you steal, steal with style, and we're here to catch you. While we're in power, I'm sure the number of thieves will be halved. You can never root out corruption and crime, never and nowhere, and do you know why? Because they're very powerful, because small groups have enormously large amounts of money that they've acquired in an illegal way and pump them into all the pores, segments of society. That's why they want to be in politics, sports, media, justice, everywhere. Some are, some aren't, but we're going in a row. It was never harder to be president and to be Prime Minister in Serbia. So many challenges, so many negative things around us. And corruption, and crime, and Kovid-19. We've got a lot going on, but we're gonna make it. We've been through a lot of worse things in our lives, and we're gonna make it through this. It should also be fought firmly against corruption and crime, against human trafficking, against drug cultivation and the distribution of drugs. And that's what we have to fight. Against terrorism, against cybercrime. There's a lot of big challenges. I have to point out the period from 2014 to 2020, as far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, they really did their job in a maestro way. If we create a parallel between 2012 and 2014, we will see that crime has dropped 30%, but if we compare 2020 and 2014, crime has also decreased by 30% compared to 2020 and 2014. Severe homicides, a period of 2020, 2014 38% lower. So when you want to work, you can work. There's always work to be done. I'm sure we'll deal with this monster, at least as much as we can. It's hard when we talk about tycoons, because somehow they mark you, you're moving targets, but really none of us came here to take pictures, but to talk about what was always forbidden, about tycoons who illegally acquired their money. Let's start over, let's go. Someone will say it again, Dragan Gilas. So Dragan Gilas, he was in politics from 2004 to 2013, the mayor was from 2008 to 2013. What happened? After him, he inherited the town of Mr. Mali. Leave her a debt, Mr. Gilas, of a billion and 200 million euros. People, billions and 200 million euros, is that normal? Let's see what he didn't pay in order. He didn't pay for his family, he didn't pay for his child's allowances, he didn't pay for his homes, he didn't pay for his electricity, he didn't pay for the water, the kindergarten was twice as expensive as he is now, he didn't pay for anything, but he threw himself 619m euros. You know what 619 million euros is? It's hardly like he's going to write. We are now building a Clinical Centre that costs, a Clinical Centre and a hospital, a Clinical Centre in Batajnica and a hospital in Krusevec, which totals 70m euros, with equipment of 90m euros. So he could build six clinical centers, shame on him. What my esteemed colleague said, he could have made his way, he could have made half of the Moravian corridor. And what did he do? Just yourself, an affair after an affair. The "bridge" affair. That bridge, which costs 400m euros, was said by my colleague, 500. Yes, because it took another 100m euros to complete the bypasses, traffic approaches meant 500m euros. The same one, ours has one pawn, the same one in France 300 meters longer with seven sawmills, cost 300m euros. The initial price of this bridge, the famous one, probably a monument to his life, was 125m euros. I wonder what would happen to those 300-400m euros? People, 300-400m euros. Then we move on, the "softver" affair. 10m-euro paid software, never used. Busplus affair. The solaris buses bought at the price of 319,000 euros, instead of buying Icarbus buses of 280,000 euros. The difference, calculate - 39,000 euros. His first made million. Let's move on. The underground containers, six million euros, of which the containers are all rotten. So, zero, he didn't do anything. Let's move on, self-releasing. For self-relating yourself, your work, or your hard work, spent 69 million dinars, you disgraced one. Let's move on. His brother Gojko, to honor the family, I really didn't mention it until the other day, but the public is talking about it, you can't ignore the fact that they have 35 apartments, excuse me, just brother 29, from the other day researching another five apartments, a total of 35 apartments. People, in the most elite parts of the city. How is that possible? So what did the judiciary do then? What was the prosecution doing? So 35 apartments have a gentleman, brother. How long has Gilas been here? How did he get them? We all, of course, have, you're here to ask us officials to give our ticket when we're on duty, meaning property, absolutely who's got what. It's also verifiable when we get out, when we're not on duty to also report what we've acquired and when, how much? Whoever acquired it illegally or illegally should go where it belongs, behind bars. It's a shame that 90, 95%, maybe more people live off their work, and five, I think that a lot less lives than work, lives than other people's work. It's never gonna happen again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1143	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1144	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very important session of the National Assembly where we are considering reports on the work of several independent control institutions, which is, I say, good practice and contributes to raising awareness of the role, but also the importance of independent control institutions, and I would add that the ruling majority, led by the SNS, has established this good practice of considering the report at the National Assembly sessions. Whenever we talk about issues from the work round of the Anti-Corruption Agency, or the Anti-Corruption Agency, it is a good opportunity to underline our strong commitment, which is a fierce and uncompromising fight against corruption and crime everywhere and in every place. On the other hand, my colleague, the National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić, today in the session where MP questions are being asked, reminded the public of a major affair, and I would say the real robbery, which took place at Vračar Municipality at the time when "yellow pests" were in power, ran out of thousands and thousands of squares of business space which she held and dozens of dwellings in the fund that the municipality managed. So over 780 million dinars of total losses and downs in business, over five thousand squares of business space disappeared from JP's business space management fund Vračar. About 70 apartments that were missing from the fund were first in the fund, there were, and then they disappeared suddenly and magically, or there's no documentation that can clearly determine what's going on with these apartments, where they are today, how is it possible that sometimes there are them and then they're gone, they're here today, they're not there tomorrow? As magicians -- now you see him, now you don't see him. Then, when you enter a little bit of documentation, then you can see that very deliberately very unfavourable and harmful contracts are made, always somehow harmful to the Vrachar municipality, and to the benefit of various natural or legal persons, various friends, as said a colleague of Jovan's "friends, relatives, godfathers". Then, deliberately let them get old, they didn't sue in time, they came up with a great claim, they came up with big debts, they didn't look, they didn't sue, they didn't do anything in that sense. Not to mention that there were no bank guarantees or any other means of security, and then you see that it's premeditated, that it's the intention to damage a public company, to damage a fund that has a municipality, to damage state property. Who took advantage of that? It doesn't take much to conclude. There have been some very characteristic cases. As I recall, one characteristic case was in the very building of the municipality, i.e. the municipality's registered public office for the management of the business space, so Negosheva 77, and one of the major debtors of the company was also registered in the municipality. So, the office next to the office, and they haven't given a notice in years to sue or anything else. So, the office next to the office, and you can see clearly from that, this wasn't accidentally done. On the other hand, there was an example, the same famous one, you'll allow me, which is how much time I devote to Vračar municipality, because I came from that municipality on Smiljanić Street, where Vracar municipality had its own land that it gave to the investor to build a multi-story, and that after the construction of the municipalities there is a certain number of squares of space and it is not in itself a problem. The problem arose when the investor who built that building failed to honor his agreement and the municipality did not receive any squares. If you're wondering why there's been no judicial trial in that sense, the answer will be very funny. The municipality had no money for the court fee, so there was no money they could pay the court fee, and that's why there was no hearing, there was no judicial trial for this robbery. It's the epilogue of Gilas's government and the authorities of Gilas' co-workers in Vracar. What's even bigger a problem than that, and that's one of the reasons why we're talking about this today and my colleague Mrdic and I, is the fact that until today, what happened to the criminal charges filed four years ago against the people responsible for this robbery has not been established. So, let me repeat, 780 million dinars of total losses and downs in business, 70 apartments, over 5,000 squares, criminal charges filed on time. Four years have passed, we have no answer, absolutely no answer -- what about the person responsible for this? What's the D.A.'s office doing? What are the judicial authorities doing? When are we gonna get the information on who's responsible for the robbery? Why is it important to remind the public of this case? In my opinion, because this case is best seen as the essence of the government of Gilas and his associates. This example best shows. So, one small municipality, the smallest Belgrade municipality, which, I say, had been occupied for years and destroyed everything that could have been robbed and devastated, until they exhausted all possible resources. Speaking of apartments, speaking of real estate, I can't help but draw up a parallel with the latest affair that shakes Serbia, and this is the knowledge we're talking about today, the incredible wealth in real estate and in the apartments of Brother Dragan Gilas. So again, the apartments, the real estate, and you'll notice interestingly whenever there's an affair with the apartments, whenever there's a real estate scam, then we get to Gilas or Gilas's associates or his brother in this case. So 29 properties, and now we hear 35 and who knows how much that figure will grow to the end, apartments, bars, garages in downtown Belgrade, and when you ask a question -- how come, my friend, that kind of money and so much wealth, there's no answer? We never get an answer, but instead of answering, there's a new series of attacks from their media, new factory affairs, N1, Nova, "New Max Adria", "Today", the one directly and who knows where it all comes from. Every day new attacks, new lies, new inventions, anything that comes to mind will come up with just to avoid giving an answer to very, you'll agree, simple questions – how did you get so many apartments, how did you get so much wealth, how did you get so many millions and real estates? I know this may not apply directly to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Corruption Agency, probably that this issue is more for the prosecution and judicial authorities, but it is very important to condemn everywhere and in every place these phenomena would not be repeated to us and it is very important to condemn in every way this kind of corruption and crime and we will persist in fighting corruption, crime and what is most important in this fight will not be protected, nor privileged as we have so far shown, because we want to make Serbia a successful, orderly and decent country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1145	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has Mr Milan Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1146	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected representatives of institutions whose reports we are discussing today, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, for a democratic society such as ours, institutions such as the Anti-Corruption Agency are extremely important, and we therefore need to approach today's agenda with special attention. At the very beginning, I would agree with my colleague Jovanov and express one dissatisfaction with what is not in this report, but on the other hand, I would like to express, to a much smaller extent, and one satisfaction with this report on work, particularly because of the precise information on the financing of political activities, and then on the number of measures and procedures taken by the Agency from the work of its jurisdiction and, in my view, what is very important are the steps taken to prevent corruption. It is very important to strengthen social awareness in the field of fighting corruption and several exceptional programmes and training has been held in this direction during the 2019 report period. Also, as we have heard on several occasions, the Republic of Serbia recognised the importance of the Agency's staff refreshment and by giving consent to the new Internal Regulation and the systematization of jobs by additional approval of funds, i.e. the strengthening of the staff capacity of the Agency for more successful work in a future period. Another important step to making it more effective to fight organised crime and corruption is the establishment of a national criminal and intelligence system that will allow the exchange of electronic data between all relevant competent institutions in our country. President Vucic has recently clearly defined the country's main goals in the coming period where, in addition to economic development, in addition to raising the standard of living, in addition to fighting the pandemic of the coronary virus, the capital takes up the fight against organised crime and corruption. In the previous period, we have come a really difficult way to lead Serbia to the position it is now in. So, 2013, 2014 primarily thanks to the courage and determination of President Vukic, we managed to save the country from the tycoons that robbed it to increase wages and pensions through economic reforms, through attracting foreign investment. Citizens want to live in a decent, normal Serbia, a country with a minimum degree of corruption and organised crime, and therefore for many years back give great support to SNS policy, President Alexander Vukic's policy, which is a policy of uncompromising combat in which there is no protection, in which there are no spared, a policy in which the criteria in the fight against corruption are neither origin nor property card, nor party book, but only the law. We from the SNS both at the republican and local level are here to work solely for the sake of the interests of the Serbian citizens, because in the end, they chose us, not as a furniture, such as Dragan Gilas, who was seen in power exclusively as an opportunity to fill their pockets, for personal gain. With this practice in Serbia, it has long been over and we have proven it many times so far. In addition, I will remind only of the fact, of a recent arrest in Prepolje and Ariel. So, if you have violated the law, if you have damaged the state, if you have damaged the citizens of Serbia, you must be processed, whether or not you have a party book. I am convinced that the time will never come again when people like Dragan Gilas, a period spent in the post of minister, as mayor, at the place of the director of some imaginary folk offices, the president, used to acquire 619m euros and now it seems that the 619m is not enough for them, he wants more. They want to return to power again, to get hold of the state registers, of course without a choice, because they must not go out for a reason, because they are aware of how frozen they are with Serbian citizens. They attack unscrupulously, for example for the brother of the President of the Republic to have towers and cities and accuse him of which some fiction turns out to be miraculous, that their brothers, specifically Gojko Gilas, brother of Dragan Gilas, do not have 29, but 35 luxury properties. I'm pretty sure that's not the final number. I will not enter the way these properties were acquired, or whether they are headed for Gojko Gilas or Dragan Gilas, or whether there have been fictitious actions or any other suspicious events, there are competent authorities. Finally, I would underline the importance of judicial authorities in the fight against corruption and organised crime, but also of judicial authorities that very often react in a very mild way, as if they wanted to free someone, as if they did not want to condemn those who took from Serbian citizens. I sincerely hope that in some future period, it will break off with such a practice for the sake of Serbia's citizens, for the sake of curbing corruption in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1147	I thank you, Mr. Jugovic. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1148	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the President of our party and the President of the State, Mr. Alexander Vukic, in 2014, when he became Prime Minister, declared something of strategic importance for the further development of our country and for further progress, which is a zero tolerance to corruption, and this is the beginning of an unspeakable and unspeakable fight against every form of corruption in our country, whether it is political corruption, whether it is corruption in the area of economy, in the area of health, sports, any segment of social life. The cause of what we are living today is that we have excellent economic results, that through the implementation of economic and political reforms we have reborn our country, that we have dramatically improved our geopolitical position, that today Serbia is a country that is respected, both in the region and in Europe, and globally. So, all over the world. It is a country in which, not by chance, investors from all the world's meridians want to invest, and it is in many ways because all the relevant players around the world have seen that there is a political will in Serbia to make a final deal with corruption and that in this government, this government, this majority in parliament, headed by SNS, Mr Alexander Vukic, as someone who is our ideologist and who defined the vision of both our parties and this state, therefore, has a clear political will to deal with corruption and, of course, to reduce it to the least possible level. How difficult it was to deal with corruption that is still going on today, because, of course, I don't want to repeat what my colleagues did brilliantly and to conclude in fact these cases that have been elaborated, starting with Sandra Christmas, Milenko Jovanovic, Aleksandr Markovic and all the predecessors, that no angry colleagues who had previously spoken and revealed in fact something that was the cancer of our country's wounds, our politics, our economy. Something that probably caused all of our taxes from 2000 to 2012, which was one society that was consumed by corruption, and I want to remind our citizens unfortunately of these dreary days of robbery privatisation, those when those people who were supposed to be servants of the people, who were supposed to operate this country in accordance with the highest ethical and professional standards, saw that they were going to sell out the natural, material and all the other treasures of this country and watch that they would buy apartments in New York, Brussels, Vienna and the world's metropolis. Their NGOs, their so-called. The experts and analysts belonged to doing projects, to be rich and that if you want to strip it, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear citizens, to rob this country without doubt every day, and to laugh at us for 12 years from this same parliament, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from all state institutions, saying that they work at the expense of this state, on account and on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by selling and hoarding our production in many segments and in many industrial sectors. So in 2012, we inherited such a condition that this country was literally bankrupt financially. Alexander Vukic, in addition to the economic and political reforms he had to implement, had to deal with the most recent examples of the country's robbery and collapse of the economic substance. I will remind you of dear friends, dear colleagues at the "Let's Clean Serbia" campaign, which was conducted in 2009, 2010 and 2011. At the time, the environment ministry, Minister Oliver Dulic, paid the pan at the "Serbian Open" campaign, which lasts seven days 500,000 euros on two occasions in two years. He pays the pan at Pop Luka Street in Belgrade in a month also 500,000 euros. We can't say anything else, but to say that it was a campaign not "Let's Clean Serbia", it was a campaign -- let's clear the budget of the Republic of Serbia, clear this country of whatever it is worth and make the conditions for all those who are worth running away from this country, because this small, so-called and self-called elite thinks they are state resources, that the state potentials benefit only them. Of course, fortunately for this country, fortunately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have come to the conclusion that in 2014 people in democratic elections chose a majority in parliament, to define that Aleksandar Vukic would become Prime Minister, starting heavy economic reforms, starting a fierce fight against corruption, against organised crime, against the gray economy, against the black labour market, defending, protecting and fighting daily and unfettered for those who have been in the trap for decades, who have been on the sidelines of this society, but not because they were not worth it, not because they were not educated, they may not have been, as they can say, a fancy part of this society. Maybe they only knew that they were working, maybe they only knew that they were going to their factories, maybe they only knew that they were taking care of their families, and they weren't used to buying real estate abroad, driving around at the state's expense and having members of their tights, but also the wider families gardening on account of those who work and who create additional value in this country. Unfortunately, my colleagues today spoke of having these restaurants, having these remnants of that age and that time, depicted in people who have become very questionablely rich. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, 619,000,000 euros is mentioned many times today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session, huge money not only for the concepts of the Republic of Serbia, for the concepts of our economy. I will remind you that in a week's time, we will discuss and discuss our country's budget proposal for 2021, which should amount to around 8.4 billion euros, and that only one man and his, Sandra explained it well, dozens of companies, which I really don't know what they are for, and for what someone needs dozens of companies, except that they draw money and other than to avoid what they are obliged to do to the state, only one man has managed to put in his own pocket almost 10% of the annual budget of the Republic of Serbia. Not that, ladies and gentlemen, would be a problem, absolutely it wouldn't be a problem if it were someone who was producing food, who was exporting food, who made screws, who made cars, who made two or three dinars, who had a large number of employees, wouldn't be a problem. It's about a man, it's about a company that's only been in a political position and a political position that's been given enormous, millions of jobs, which were in the interest of only Dragan Gilas, and as far as we can see now, his brother Gok Gilas and his rope, but probably a wider family, relatives, friends and everyone else, because, people, 619,000,000 euros is money that one man or one family can't possibly spend not for one, not for two, but for ten lives. I agree with my colleagues and I fully share that opinion that the simple and state authorities should respond, but also the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and all those who have ties to such anomalies, I cannot tell the phenomenon, these are social anomalies, to react and to put all the cards on the table once, to look into our eyes and say – so wait, people, what kind of reason should it be for the prosecutor or some competent state body if he sees someone driving a car of 100,000 euros, that there are 10, 15 or 35 apartments, to ask him where he's from, and he doesn't work anywhere, he creates no additional value, he doesn't hire anyone? So what are these jobs? Not to repeat what my colleagues were talking about, not to close our eyes over a fierce campaign that is being held in a tycoon-media, plus an NGO so-called. He leads the circles against the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. Do you think it's an accident that so-called. JSP production pays 400 posts on TV N1 and Nova S? He pays them 50 times below the market price and says – well, you know, we have promoted the boycott in the interest of citizens and in the social interest. What citizens? Who are you representing? Are we going to break up with this practice that people who don't even go to the polls, who don't deserve a single vote of citizens, are saying that they promote some social or any broader interest? Imagine, a private company in the 21st century, a private company and production promotes the state interest of boycotts of parliamentary and local elections in 2020 and then magically, these rights and those videos that it has shown on these TVs, the party so-called. freedom and justice. And we all look at each other, we talk, we want to be nice and cultural and no one will say – people, it's not normal, it's not, after all, in accordance with the law and that, after all, it should be examined. Where does a private company and production pay for political videos and pay for the kind of content that are essentially political, which are simply defined by certain laws in which, of course, and under whose competences are not private companies, but political parties? I can also propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia and our guests, especially representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, there is a very good example in the case of NGOs, for example in Israel. They have a special body that deals with what NGOs are financed from. They deal with the sources of funding of certain NGOs and every conclusion, each investigation has been made clear that all these organisations have been financed by those sources of financial ones that were absolutely focused and whose aim was against the state. I guarantee you right now it's also here in Serbia. Because what do we have as a result? This isn't a coincidence. This is a systematic work, because I can't do in free, fair and democratic elections to defeat Vukic and the SNS, to dehumanize him so much, to relativize so much what's been going on in our country for the past few months, to make us so normal that someone, his family, threatens his parents with violence, threatens to kill him, to create such an atmosphere that it's normal, and that ultimately results in what my colleague Milenko Jovanovic mentioned a few days ago, and it came to this so-called. to independent media as someone who, behold, was saying things that were not founded, and he said nicely that the two most dangerous criminal clans in this part of Europe had provenly paid for the hit man Chabi Deru or Chabi Jeru, however you wish, to kill the President of the Republic. You think it's a coincidence that this whole campaign is being hit and the continuity is hitting on the country's critical infrastructure. See what's attacking, what sectors in this country? The military, the military industry, Telekom, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, everything we have preserved as our resource, everything we still jealously and selfishly defend and want to remain in our possession. Why? Because we still want, led by Alexander Vukic, to be a sovereign and independent country, because we still want to manage exclusively the interests of our citizens and Serbian interests in this country. Of course we're going to continue this fight as much as possible, and of course we're going to fight every day here in parliament, which is our job, and we're going to send our citizens political messages so that we know that we are fiercely opposed to this kind of call to the lynch, to destroying a man who, in order for him to say it nicely along the way of the president of the state, because this isn't about Alexander Vukic just, this is about the state. This is about an attack on the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to express my support to my colleague Mark Atlagic, who, I believe, as a folk MP, as a longtime professor of the university, has the right to give his opinion, has the right to speak publicly here in parliament, to speak publicly at any scientific conference in which he participates or in a meeting with supporters, voters, with citizens, which he does. It is likely that Marko Atlagic has the right to express his opinion, and that after just a few hours, crows don't attack him, they don't show up, they don't say he's someone who might have to be expelled, who needs to be expelled from this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the so-called The opposition and those people who are dealing with this and who are openly destroying this country will, of course, never have the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say once again that Alexander Vukic and the SNS currently have 66% support for American, not domestic agencies, support of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that we will continue, of course, with a policy of defence of our national interests, and we will defend our national, economic and political interests by fighting corruption, which we will fight against all of these social anomalies that still exist, though in the resets, in the backdrops of our country, but I am sure we will fight them hard. I want to say that a special anti-corruption agency is doing a good job in these conditions that we live in. It's good that the Lobby Act is passed, it's good that we finally want to, and I hope that we will succeed in putting into the legal framework what happened years before this, that so-called. Advocating, not to talk about trade in influence and everything that has happened in political and economic processes, that it simply makes a clear distinction between what corruption is, what lobbying is. I am giving full support to the Agency, and I am giving full support to Dragan Sikimic, who is doing it well and as director of the Agency, to carry out the job to the end, not to do the job here because of MPs, but because of parliament, but because of the people of Serbia, because of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1149	Thank you. MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1150	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of institutions, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs. By reading your report, first of all it refers to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, I must point out that there are good things here. We cannot sin our soul by listening to previous colleagues to say that nothing has been done or that something has not been done properly, but from the point of view of the MP who has been in this assembly for the first time, and for 11 years the Agency has been engaged in parliamentaryism, and now for five years now I have been dealing with affairs concerning the city of Belgrade, somehow I have a bitter taste and it is not clear to me that for all these years, and it seems to me that the Agency exists for some ten years, correct me if I am wrong, that in these ten years, there has been no case of an examination of how someone who has led it, who has been in state functions, and the last state function has been the leadership of the city of Belgrade, has acquired so much wealth, and that even because of citizens's interest, the Agency has not been interested in all of it. I've heard here that you have only one right, to say so, to advise you to act preventively, but then I would agree with colleagues from previous speakers that you have to advocate for the citizens' interest to extend those powers to you. See for yourself what's going on in the last period. You can see how much citizens' interest in all the affairs that rock our country, and about the wealth of the Dragan and Gojko Gilas brothers, concerns the affair that someone who entered politics according to their own recognition in 2004, with only 74 000 euros, one used car and one house, when he finished all his functions and when citizens told him enough, reports for the 2018 elections as many as 25m euros and only in real estate. I've heard some theories and stories here about who's reporting your property. I also heard that some local officials were forced to resign. I also heard some criminal charges were filed against, but we didn't discuss two things here, and none of the previous speakers mentioned it. The first thing is that the functioner is due and two years after he ceases his duties, is that right, that he reports his assets? I'm asking you now, was that Dragan Gilas working and if he did, did you see any disagreements, any illogicalities? Is it normal for someone whose average salary is 100,000 dinars, to consider that the mayor of Belgrade's salary has been and has 25m euros in real estate. So this is the first and key question. Did he do it? If he did, did you notice these illogicalities? The other thing, this man is still a clerk today, you correct me if I'm wrong, he's a city councilman. You're nodding your head, so I'm right, so he as a city councilman also has... No obligation to report? All right, so we were so safe and I was the head of the council group in the City Assembly, we were all reporting when we took office. But someone who performs a function I suppose is obliged for citizens to answer, this doesn't apply to you now, it's his personal consciousness or conscience that he will answer certain questions that have been repeated for years back. As for the affairs that my colleagues have brought out, I really don't know which one I'd like to start from before and which one I could analyze in more detail, because as someone in town who deals with the problems that we have left behind Dragan Gilas, I'm in every direction. I won't take too much time now, and a lot of it has been said, we're going to start from just the most important and most brutal embezzlement money I'm sorry some of your predecessors haven't been able to react to. Please do not repeat such things in the future. An affair underground containers. So people living in Belgrade know what underground containers are. I don't know how much you'll be able to see from here, but whoever's interested in it can see in the pictures, you won't be able to see live for the simple reason because it was unsustainable and unsustainable. Six million euros has been embezzled in this affair. How and in what way? A thousand and 800 underground containers were obtained without any project, without any plan, without any idea where these containers would be placed. The company that got the job to run existed about a month before the beginning of the work itself and, of course, when it was all over, those companies went bankrupt. What's a very big problem, city cleanliness, the board of directors never agreed to all this. So the purchase was made, the delivery was made, the installation was done, the Management Board did not give consent. So, directly six million euros has been embezzled. What's the problem? This system was unsustainable for a simple reason because there were not enough machines to empty these underground containers. How many shears were made of these underground containers were seen by the resuscitation of these underground containers. In the first year alone, citizens of Belgrade paid 4.7m dinars for the recovery. They collapsed, they rotted, there was an ecological disaster, because these underground containers were filling up with water, and then when it rained, there was a flood, you couldn't get out the water, you couldn't get that garbage. And for a variety of replacement parts of the elements, another 3.2 million dinars. So it's just one affair that's mentioned here, but these are the details that citizens of Belgrade and Serbia need to hear, what the future would offer them again, people who claim to be power again today. The second affair concerns King Alexander's Boulevard, where, again, six million euros were embezzled, miraculously. Why? During the announcement of the tender, two bids came. One bid was 1.7 billion dinars, the other was 1.1 billion dinars and, of course, you know how the procedure goes, what offer is accepted. However, miraculously, this cheaper offer is being rejected under unexplained circumstances, this more expensive one is being accepted, it is entering the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar, and it is leaving doubts about how and why this replacement occurred. The fact that it further heats up all the doubts and what the citizens and my fellow city councillors were talking about is that the company that didn't get the job was notified on 31.12.2009 that they didn't get the job, and the contract with the company that was going to do the jobs was signed nine days earlier. I'd just like someone to explain to me how and in what way is that possible? Not to mention that the journal of papers was not conducted, properly, that no matter how many elements or elements went into recovery, that no consideration was taken of the purchase. There was nothing to worry about, just how to spend money. I'm going to end these two affairs because I believe there are other MPs who want to say something else on this topic or something. It's an affair called "Castle City" in Banjaca. It's a group of metal and wood elements that used to be a drug bust, and it was only for the personal promotion of Dragan Gilas. What's the problem? It is about 750 square meters of steel construction, metal, wood, plastics, which was made without even one single paper, without even one single building permit and is given to the management of the Voždovac municipality. Worst of all, the Vozdovac municipality had to pay another 200,000 dinars in that period to secure the facility that served nothing and was unconditional and insecure for children. This is what we suggested, and no one responded at the time. What's left for the very end, we've heard many criticisms here, i.e. in the previous session, and we now hear them outside parliament, that any reconstruction done in our country or in the city of Belgrade is not good. They only offered us a replica of the Terrace. People who know where this was in New Belgrade, today's bus stop move. It cost citizens of Belgrade 72 million dinars. So 72 million dinars for nothing never came to life. Also, to make the paradox even bigger, the city of Belgrade illegally connected it to electricity. When you consider how this man was headed towards the financing of the city of Belgrade, the money of the citizens of Belgrade, there is only a question – where did all these money talked about by previous speakers and how did this wealth come about? This will end – 2018, as I said, as the holder of the Belgrade city list, reported 25m euros only in real estate. Today we are witnessing that his brother has between 29 and 35 properties. It is amazing that one man in Serbia has more real estate than a pair of socks. Just that example when you're looking at how rich it is. Its properties are now estimated at 5.5m, which means these brothers, the two Gilas, at a time when Dragan Gilas was in power earned 30m euros. So 30m euros, and only in real estate, let's not talk about those 619m euros. On behalf of all citizens who constantly call, ask and ask on the street when we are with them or when we meet ask this question and I ask all of you who have connections and fight corruption that you have this in mind, because you cannot explain to anyone that as a failed entrepreneur with 74 thousand euros you are in a position to be the richest people in this part of Europe. You have responsibility, you have the support of all of us, you will have in the future, but for the sake of the citizens, for Serbia's sake, keep it safe, take care of these phenomena, react, because we don't have another country. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1151	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1152	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, honored guests of institutions that protect the budget and check all of us who work here, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly I was selected from the SNS list – Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and I represent the United Peasant Party. All these things we've heard so far from my colleagues, from my colleague Sandra, Mr. Markovic, Mr. Mirkovic, Aleksandr Markovic, we've heard all the negative things that happened until 2012, in which people were getting rich, in which way people used everything that people gave them as an opportunity to do for everyone's sake. They showed we shouldn't be working, but that's why we who came... I've been an MP since 2014. I was also the president of the municipality, of a small municipality, of the Municipality of Srljig, where we tried in every way to ensure the basic conditions for people to stay there to live, that there could be continued work, that everyone there, both in Srlig and in the White Palanca, in Gadjin Han, in the territory of southeast Serbia could work. The most important of all of what I'm saying is this many funds in one man or a few of them, whether it's the Gilas brothers, who have become rich in the way my colleagues have spoken, it is evident that these funds were needed to be used for our people living in southeastern Serbia, to be used to build these municipalities, to build our villages, to help our people who live in the country and from the village, to our children in the country, to our women in the country, to all those who live in southeastern Serbia. We've had opportunities since 2014, when he's as Prime Minister, I've been elected as MPs for the first time since that year, so we've had a great opportunity here and that possibility has been used. There have been savings, there have been savings since 2014, where we've all worked together to provide for our safer future. This crown, this pandemic, has once again shown that something unexpected can always happen, but that is why our state of Serbia, our President, Mr. Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, together with all of us, has provided the possibility that we can behave more safely. Here, I'm going to say a few things about small environments, where much more investment is needed. We have plans from 2021 to 2026 to work here to solve institutional problems, solve water supply, sewerage, road infrastructure, to work out field electricity, solve electricity problems, because we are witnessing that in these small areas, in our villages we have a big problem with the low voltage network, with the intensity and all that. That's why the funds are being prepared. That is why our President, Mr. Vukic, announced our five-year development and infrastructure work plan. It will be done with all the forces to stay to live in these environments, to stay in our municipalities, in our villages, so that people can live. This pandemic is still in progress. We have a big problem, a lot of people who are infected, we have a lot of our friends who have health problems, we have a lot of acquaintances who have lost the battle with the crown, but from this place I'd like to thank all of our medics, our doctors, our nurses, our drivers, people who work in clinical centres, in health homes, who work to save our people, to help all of our people to save themselves from this unwanted disease. Backwards, a few days more precisely, yesterday at the Clinical Center new v.d. Director, Prof. Dr. Perisic, announced that he would receive a solution for a permanent 206 medical workers of which 116 doctors, 86 nurses and several pharmacists. A competition for the admission of 641 healthcare workers who will be admitted to Kruševec at the Kovid Centre was launched very quickly. I expect that there will be a possibility that a large number of our workers who are now working for a certain period of time will have the opportunity to get a solution permanently. In the same way in our small communities, small municipalities like my municipality of Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Književec and other municipalities, in all these places, all of our people who fight for each of our men must give them special thanks. Another increase in profits, that's another good thing for our medics. The working conditions must be even better. That's why our country, our government and our president, we want to give all our powers maximum support to our healthcare professionals, nurses, doctors, drivers and all those who work there. Back in the last few weeks, we had an even bigger number of people who got infected, who got a crown. Our crisis headquarters has brought new measures that we must have the obligation to respect. From this place I would invite all our citizens, all of our people to respect the measures of our crisis headquarters, to protect people's health, to protect every man, whether he lives in Srlig, the White Palanca, whether he lives here in Belgrade, whether he lives in Subotica. One thing is important to me as a man, I'm from Svrlig, I was born in a village called the village of Pluzina, it's important for all of us there to equalize the conditions of life, that there man in Svrlig, and here in Belgrade we have similar conditions. The big problem was corruption, the big problem was people who abused their positions. Here, the Anti-Corruption Agency, directors, all of you who are here, a few years ago, we've changed the law, there are more workers, people who will follow, check all of us, because most importantly, in my neighborhood we say – covered cat milk don't drink. Therefore, it is good that the Agency is doing its job, it is good that the Fiscal Council is doing its job, that we are all working together to protect the maximum assets of our country, to protect the maximum budgets of our municipalities, cities and not to have these unwanted things happen. The membership card will never and must never be a security for fraud, for thieving and we have shown it now, because back a few weeks, people who have been in some key places, some municipalities, who have been members of some of the parties leading the country, they have stood up to the law, made a mistake, and that is why they will answer. I think it's a really big thing and the need to invest more in our village, our agriculture, our small environments, to invest there, that we give funds because believe me people, is Belgrade our capital, but for me, it's the point where I live, for my people who live and that's why we're all working on investing in every part of our country of Serbia, that it's possible that people can have the same rights that people have in most of our centers, that is, in some parts of our country where they can be more normal and easier to live. I here as a National MP, a representative and president of the United Peasants' Party will support all these reports because that is what it is, shows that it is done and is done in the best way, but on the other hand, I expect that by the 2021 budget, we will have the opportunity to invest in the middle, such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, to invest in Nis, in south-east Serbia, to invest in whatever it takes for people to continue there. The state of Serbia has shown that we need to work, support our medics through employment, through a permanent working relationship, because in this way there is an opportunity to show that a large number of our healthcare workers get a solution for permanent, and the compensation for the earnings of our health workers is, I can say, satisfactory, there is an opportunity to be better, because in this way when people stay here in Serbia, these health workers and other young people when they are employed, when they have a secure job, when they have a secure income, I am sure they will not go to some countries like Germany, Austria or some other Western European countries. The most important thing of all of this is that we who are here by example show how to do it. I would once again thank, firstly, the President of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, who was also the first vice president, during his time as prime minister and during his time as Serbian president, showed how to deal with unwanted matters, i.e. with crime, with corruption, as the belt should be tightened, to be saved, as it should be invested in every inch of our country of Serbia, because that is the only way our Serbia will move forward. Only in this way will it be possible for municipalities that are undeveloped, that the municipalities that are mountain-mounted, that the villages in which there is a future, because now we see again when the pandemic, when the crown, when the worst things, we all remember the village, we all want to go back to the village. So once again, honourable fellow MPs, we will all support these reports together, but on the other hand, without a strong village, we do not have a strong Serbia. Once again, I would like to call from this place and thank all the medics, all the people who protect the health of our people to continue to work, and on the other hand I call on all the citizens to be disciplined, to respect all the measures that he said and that the Crisis Headquarters says, because that's just one way to keep us all safe and to go better in the next period and to get better and better for finding our children, for our children's children's children. Once again, as president of the United Peasants' Party, I will vote for all these reports, because I think what you are doing, that what the state of Serbia is doing and that what the president of Serbia is doing is what it is necessary for our children. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1153	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1154	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the institutions, fellow MPs, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us at the agenda where we are discussing reports from the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the Fiscal Council, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and the Securities Commission, which are significant and from the six objectives set before the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all two that I will mention, which is the fight against corruption and crime and the fight to strengthen our economy. As we see for ourselves, according to the report delivered by the Agency, enviable results have been achieved when it comes to fighting corruption and preventing it. The new law, which has been voted upon, has extended the competences of this agency, which will certainly contribute significantly to the continuation of the fight against corruption, which is actually one of the policies implemented by the SNS, especially since Alexander Vukic was elected prime minister of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, because the fight against corruption is also important for the economic development of our country, which I will talk about later. My fellow Members and fellow MPs have made a lot of things in their speeches, especially when it comes to Dragan Gilas, who has managed to earn 619 million in the period since he became a state official and of course declared himself a successful manager, because it is very easy to make that kind of income when you are on the state manger and when you abuse the very positions you are in. Otherwise, a colleague tells that he left a minus in the Belgrade cashier's register is nothing special. It was also done by members of the DS that he led at the time in other cities in Serbia, as well as in Kruševec where I come from, and then from the moment the SNS came first, it had to be solved, these minuses in the registers, not completed projects, not completed financial constructions of these projects. When we talk about him how successful and how much support he has, it's enough to just say that while he was a functioner and president of the basketball union of Serbia everything was fine, he had no objection to the system or to life in Serbia, and then, after that function was highlighted, he suddenly remembered that something was wrong and that he actually needed to return to politics, even though he said he didn't want to return. He returns to politics by forming an association of citizens, or the Alliance for Serbia, and after that, since he does not have enough support to form his own party, he had to reach the party. Now, if he bought that party or some business deal, since he says he's a successful businessman, he's managed to do it, I don't know, but in any case, he's used those skills and now he's got a party he's leading, and yet he doesn't have enough support, I'm sure, not even to enter this home. So much for his political supremacy. You know as the people say - similar to that, so nothing differs from him or Vuk Jeremic, who was a state official, asking unprofessional questions before the International Court of Justice has done more damage to Serbia's fight for the preservation of KIM than anyone else could. Also, everything was fine when it came to Serbia and the struggle to improve Serbia as long as it served as UN assembly president. The moment he failed to vote for the position of the UN Secretary-General, he formed, behold, a miracle, an NGO, which is funded, neither we nor today know in any way, and on the Internet you can find reports, even from WikiLeaks, where there is no accurate information as to who these donors are, nor have they ever published such information, which, in my opinion, actually falls within the scope of corruption affairs. We have information that his business associates he collaborated with while he was performing important functions, Patrick Ho and Emilio Lozoya were arrested in New York on corruption, corruption activities they had, so we can conclude again on this people's side – similar to that, in fact, how he behaves. Of course, he returns to politics, yet there is no possibility of forming his own party, so Mike Aleksic had to buy a party or actually come back with some agreement to make him president, and the previous president of the party became the first vice president and his right-hand man. How much support there is among the people shows clear results, the first election for the President of the Republic in 2017, when he was defeated by Ljubisa Preletičević of Beli, and later, of course, he himself did not go to the last elections that were held, because, yes, he is aware that he could not achieve that minimum threshold of 3% to have his representatives here. What is also a characteristic is abuse and numerous other events, where it did not clearly distinguish whether it appeared as a political figure or performed as the president of the Association of Citizens, so I personally had the opportunity to make sure that at the presence and at the invitation of an NGO where he was invited to give a speech as president of his association, he addressed it as a political figure and later abused that speech in his political campaign, which again speaks of his behaviour and his goals. Otherwise, these two I'm talking about are actually people who have already been seen, and it doesn't need to be surprised why they don't have support among the people, because the people had plenty of time to see what they are, what their abilities are and how much they are really fighting on the people and how much they really have to fill for their own pocket, which they need to be. And as much as he supports his comrades speaking, in fact, to support that in situations where they had their political performances, in cold weather, in snow, he was gardening and enjoying New York, in the United States. All congratulations to the Agency on the work and what is very dear, is that in the very report that you have provided, you also have recommendations that you give to our MPs, but they are also directed towards the government, so that the fight against corruption can be more effective. Of course, today you have also had the opportunity to hear recommendations from several MPs, which I also support and suggest that the next period be considered, so that we all manage to give even more momentum in the fight against corruption and crime. As we can see, the results that Serbia has achieved, although these two and their associates say that there has never been more crime in Serbia, never more corruption, and in that case our economy and economy should not function, nor should we be leaders when it comes to foreign direct investment, because which normal, otherwise rational, economic operator would come to Serbia as they represent and sue Brussels and wherever they come from, to actually invest? Serbia, as we know, has never had more foreign direct investment, and I am sure that this year would achieve a much better position, but due to the pandemic of the crown, it is absolutely also this amount and value of the investments that we have really satisfactory and we can praise these results. Also, the reports that we also received from the Securities Commission, where we actually see that we have a shift in the capital market and especially because we have passed open and alternative investment funds laws as a new way of financing our economy and promoting and start-ups and young entrepreneurs to enter the waters of entrepreneurship and businesses, actually talk about how Serbia is progressing and how much it thinks in this economic aspect, that both the standard of living and each other segment fills. New businessmen, new business entities mean additional taxes, additional income in the state register, and the larger cash register also means new investments in travel infrastructure, in health care, in education, in culture, in everything that Serbian citizens need for a better life and what the SNS has been doing since it has been speaking and successfully realized in power. And what I'm saying is, you know how, after the battle, they're all generals. The hardest thing to do is to make decisions in times of difficulty. So we saw during this period of the pandemic, when it was necessary to react urgently, and I am glad that the Fiscal Council welcomed those decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state to fight the pandemic, but also against the crisis which, of course, follows in these situations in terms of the economy. Of course, it is always good to hear the other side, and even some criticism, but I am sure that all the moves that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken are adequately satisfactory. Are the correct results when it comes to the discussion that we had about those famous 100 euros sent to the citizens of Serbia, as I was saying, they were directly given to the citizens, but indirectly they ended up within our economy and in fact it was the citizens who decided where to invest that money. You know we always have a discussion when it comes to the economy of the relationship between justice and efficiency. In this case, the state wanted to be just, that is, all citizens were treated equally, because exactly the policy that SNS and Aleksandar Vukic advocated is this socio-economic policy, that citizens are important, that citizens are the ones who actually make all these decisions and make them, that they live better and that our country can move forward. In any case, in voting day, me and my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, and I am sure that the other MPs in the National Assembly, we will vote and support your work reports, which I once again say are excellent and yet another indicator that we are as a state on the right and excellent path to make this country a leader in the region and to be an example of how from a country known for corruption, crime and tarnishing factories becoming a country of investment, a country of development and a country where young people will remain living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1155	Thank you. The last reported on the list of MPs is Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1156	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say at first that I will vote in favour of these reports and I believe that they are properly drawn up, as well as reports, and proposals for measures to improve the situation. There is indeed one of the burning topics of every society, and that is corruption. She's been pulling her roots and origins since the old century, 2,400 years ago. Imagine, throughout that period, from then on, corruption and the fight against corruption have always existed in all possible systems of slave society to this day. The first word of corruption was spoken by Aristotle, the famous ancient philosopher, and later Ciceron - and added bribe to that sentence. The struggle against corruption itself lasts over 2,000 years, so the fight will continue as long as human civilization exists. The main actors of corruption are people in a social and state position. Accordingly, we can really say that corruption is an illegal use of social and state positions and powers to obtain benefits from officials, whether they are political officials, whether they are directors of various organisations or doctors, doctors or teachers in schools, doctors in hospitals and homes of health etc. In order for our society to create a universal principle of equality for all citizens before the law, we must indeed fight corruption on a daily basis or literally fight for the application of legality. And that's the problem. I'm throwing an accent at law enforcement, because if we apply the law, there won't be any corruption. The laws are still good, that doesn't mean they don't need to be promoted, and if they really apply, then corruption comes down to a minimum. We have mostly three types of corruption in our country, it's white corruption, and I'm going to say every single thing by example. I'm really sorry to have to say the names tonight, because I can see that yesterday, the day before yesterday when I spoke caused a storm, and even tonight, I like to cause a storm and I can't wait for them to call me. Now, allow me, in white corruption, that's number one. White corruption - giving privileges based on related or friendly ties, without the expectation of counterservice. Now you see, when we're here on that question, I'm going to give an example. Bojan Pajtic, who was president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, how was he related to employment? I'm not just gonna say it. That's what his party colleague, Goran Jesic, said in 2014. Imagine, what did he say, how he accused him? Citation – Pajtic employed at the Executive Council of Vojvodina, aunts, sisters, aunts, snorkels, sister-in-laws, sister-in-laws and godmothers. And watch out, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of 670 employees, when he came to the Executive Council of Vojvodina, inherited the late Perosevic, he left the Executive Council with 2030. It's those sisters, it's those aunts, it's the shrews, it's the swastikas, and it's the godfathers. It's so-called. White corruption. So kinships and friendships, without expecting favors and normally that he didn't expect favors, but that he hired them. Let's move on. Grey corruption – giving privileges in the principle of service services, independent of friendly and related ties. When we're here, for the sake of time, I'll cut it short, but let me say that the former government has been using it tremendously. Perhaps, even in Serbia's history, no one has used corruption more than they have, because they have destroyed our institutions and all our companies, our businesses. Let me just say that five of their ministers were arrested after all. To remind citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is the minister, former Sasa Dragin, Oliver Dulic, who was mentioned here today by colleagues and colleagues Jasmina Matic, Predrag Bubalo, Slobodan Milosavljevic. Five, not to say how many ministerial assistants and others. Now, you see, when it comes to the third kind of corruption, black corruption -- with direct bribes, and most often it's in money. That's what politicians use terribly. That, along with this other gray corruption, and black corruption, politicians use it extremely. I'll just mention health care. Here's an area, to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we have been doing this very often in the past term. To mention a few affairs, to remind them. The affair – the trade of death, the craftsman and the ambulance. We talked about it very often here. Then, an affair – trade in waiting lists at the Institute of Oncology of Vojvodina, if you remember in Novi Sad. Third, the affair about getting the vaccine. Remember, about getting the vaccine. An affair - death of patients, affair - fake serum. I could count all you want, but I'm asking you respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia a question -- do you remember any affair since Minister Zlatibor Loncar? Of course, you don't remember, because it didn't exist. No more affairs. And when our political opponents say it did not happen in health care, Serbia is now 16th on the European list, and in their time it was not on the list of 36 countries. It was not until the arrival of the SNS in 2012, or in 2014, that we came to the list, that we were 36 and now to see how far we got. Now let's move on. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, law enforcement is very important, and law enforcement is responsible for the control and supervision of those who do. These are all kinds of inspections, but they're also directors. Political responsibility is also a criminal director, but in the first place political in the case of companies, i.e. public enterprises and all political parties, regardless of whether they are a position or opposition, should indeed take care of that. When it comes to corruption in general, there is an important education and education. As you can see, in the Old Ages there was corruption in slave society, and then philosophers warned of education and education as one of the basic elements in order to avoid corruption. If a man is brought up and has a proper relationship with state, social or private property, any one will not have corruption. Now, in order to determine what social values each individual must possess, you see now, we have had it in a socialist society, now in capitalist terms we have not defined the virtues in either the educational system or anywhere. Still, Plato in the old age, the great Greek, I quote -- all the gold that lies above and below the earth is not enough to be given for the value of virtues. It's a finished quote. Does Mr. Gilas have any virtues? Of course not. He needs to study Plato and ancient philosophers to see what qualities he needs to possess in order not to take away 619 million or his brother 35 properties, etc. So when I said education and education, that's what I meant, not to talk about law enforcement, or courts, etc. So, what's important, to point out, when it comes to Gilas, when I mentioned him, I'm not going to talk about him, since colleagues and colleagues have said a lot today about it, but I'm going to end up with a quote from his party, actually from the Alliance for Serbia, his colleague, Sergei Trifunovic. Citing -- Gilasu is the main weapon of money that solves everything and buys political affection, Gilas urges Vladika Gligori to run for Serbian President in 2022. The Alliance for Serbia never became, yeah. What now? Janko Veselinović asks. Nothing. What are the others from the Alliance for Serbia? Nothing. What is Zeljko Veselinović from the union? Nothing. He holds Gilas, who has his own party of Freedom and Justice, who comes up with money, they take two, three, he goes to Vladika Gligori, an agreement with the people is a difficult fiction, Jeremic is an untalented politician, and Gilas has ruined culture in Belgrade. Done quote, July 16th, 2020. So much for this Mr. Gilas or for Europe, Gilas, because there are two passports, for Europe is Gilas, and for Serbia is Gilas. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, one more example I'm going to say, and this is an example of a professor of Traffic College who is now an academic, Dusan Teodorovic. He was expelled from the Traffic College in 1999 on 31 May. Why? Because he didn't teach and he didn't work. Where'd he go? He escaped a fugitive to the United States because there was a bombing of Serbia, a gentleman retreated. When he came back, you know who hired him without a competition again? Guess what. It is true, you're right, Serbia's Turajlic, who was the assistant minister of Gassa Knezevic. Speaking of which, I know that the elite of the circle of the two will attack me as soon as I say this, these days we remained all shocked when we heard a statement by Dr. Serbia's Turajlic, a member of the Alliance for Serbia, that it needs a monument to Stefan Nemanja in Belgrade. Turaylic says to the N1, CIA. I quote -- a monster monument should be torn down and removed from the Sava Square in Belgrade as soon as possible. He completes the quote and adds that the monument to Stefan Nemanja is something that every normal should be ashamed of, a complete quote. I, here, say - I'm not normal, but I'm not ashamed, it's an honor to see the father of a medieval Serbian state in the square. She continued, quoting: "It is such a disgrace for this city, such a shame that generations will bear, if the monument is not removed," and then knocked, I quote: "Is this city, is this city, that this country has failed to the point that in the 21st century it can be placed in this city such a monstrosity," finished quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, because you asked me to, I received 20 messages, to address and quote what she said. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, such monstrous statements and insults by the Serbian Orthodox Church, as it is only possible to come from a person without morals, without patriotism and without patriotism. This can't even be a moral freak. All these and your statements, Mrs. Turajlic, write down, frame and apply those you have spoken about Alexander Vukic for the past year and place in your living room, to remind each day of your high range of scientific achievements, patriotism, patriotism and civilization culture. Remember, Mrs. Turajlic, morality and patriotism make one scientist great. I repeat, to write down, Mrs. Turajlic, morality and patriotism make one scientist great. Dear ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you why she said it. Why did she say about Stefan Nemanja and the monument? There are six reasons. First, because he picked up the Serbian lighthouse. Is it true or not? Here, let her say, let the TV screens come out and say if that's why. Secondly, because Stefan Nemanja is the father, or founder of the Serbian medieval state. Let him say if that's not what he's up to. Third, because the monument to Stefan Nemanja is the work of the Russian artist Vajar Rukavisnikov Alexander, and it bothers her. Fourthly, this bothers her the most, because the initiator of the monument is Stefan Nemanja, President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic. Fifth, because raising a monument to Stefan Nemanja is good for the Serbian nation and the state, not to speak her statements on Kosovo and Metohija and Professor Teodorovic. And the sixth, because Professor Serbia's Turajlic has a lack of patriotism. And finally, the monument to Stefan Nemanja, founder of the medieval Serbian state, is the most beautiful gift of the Serbian people and the state of God in 2020 to all victims known and unknown, I have fallen through 820 years for my Serbian Orthodox faith, the Serbian people and the Serbian homeland. A memorial to Stefan Nemanja, respected ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, was set up during the Serbian ruler, Mr Alexander Vukic, a Serbian reformer, a Serbian builder and defender of the Serbian people and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-01-0.u1157	Let me bring this debate to an end today and thank the representatives of the regulatory bodies present here today. I didn't participate in the debate, but I just have to say one remark that I've been saying for 10, 15 years, which is - why do you have double or three times the salary of the MPs? But you probably thought, legislators, that it would make you more independent and more resistant to corruption. Frankly, having more money will surely be more corrupt than the MPs. But that's my private opinion now. Let me point out because I think that you often say in your activities some words about MPs, not taking care of who chooses you and doesn't care about you, and considering that corruption is and as a highlight of corruption, some acts that concern some totally parallel matters in the entire anti-corruption system are being declared. Since I was 28 years in the congregation, I have lived through a dozen laws, each law has been epochal, and none has lasted more than two, three years. Ten years ago, it was epochal to separate the seat of MPs and the president of municipalities or mayors. Because you listened to experts, or we, from the European Union who did not apply their things in their countries, but experimented in Serbia. We don't regret what happened, but it's not a basic thing. Just as it is not a basic matter whether MPs will be ministers, because if they can be in the UK, they can be in Serbia. This is about believing your eyes and catching thieves who have used a political function for wealth, and with a naked eye you can see, because Serbs are such that they can't hide anything, not even wealth. So I ask you to discuss your activities and your reports and when we discuss this, to discuss these matters. We can't talk here, every discussion here is a task for you, because you need to fight corruption and for the competent state authorities. I apologize for saying this in the end. We accept the report of work, but frankly, are we going to read in the paper who has as many apartments, who has as much wealth as the company, and how long are we going to discuss it? Or maybe it's the task of you as a regulatory body? If not, then I don't know why we chose him. So I thank you and hope that the next report will be more concrete, with better results and greater results, because it is a key thing that is important that you have clean hands in politics, and that is not without preventing and processing corruption. I'm talking about your agency now. Because I'm messing with you for ten days now because you sent a memo probably to everyone, so I had to go in, and one of your questions was – what was the nickname from school, from childhood. I don't know what's important about fighting corruption. And your theme is not 29 apartments or 30 apartments of political party leaders. So take me, my list, comb everything. Don't deal with irrelevant matters, if any of the presidents of the municipality are in conflict of interest that a member of a board there is at the municipal level where the salary is 20 or 30,000 dinars, and millions pass before your eyes. Trust your eyes, you don't have to trust anyone else. I thank you all. We'll get back to work tomorrow. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 4. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 10:00 p.m. on the motions for decisions from the 5th to 8th agenda. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 122 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present, I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 146 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are, as I said, a prerequisite for the presence of at least 84 MPs, because this means that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the MPs Elvira Kovac and Marijan Risticevic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions from the 5th to 8th agenda. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 5 to 8 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report for the word of the MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: I am opening a joint Single Search on: a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Serbia's Energy Agency for 2021, submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds; a proposal for a decision to give consent to the amendments and addition of the Financial Plan of the Commission for Securities for 2020, submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds; a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media for 2021, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the Charter Commission's Charters Statute, which was submitted by the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public funds. Does the proposing representative, MP Aleksandra Tomic, want a word? (Yes) National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and control of public spending. Here you go.
