ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly during the decision-making process exists if the majority of all MPs are present at the session, so I urge you to insert your identification cards into MPs to determine the number of MPs present in the hall. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 150 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan M. Markovic, Dr. Vesna Ivkovic, Justina Pupin Kosćal and Aleksandar Jovanovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, for the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, I have determined the following Dn e n i d: 1. Regular annual report for 2019, submitted by the Ombudsman, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government of 16 December and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 17 December 2020; 2. Report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information from public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2019, submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government of 16 December 2020; 3. Regular annual report for 2019, submitted by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 17 December 2020 and 4. Report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2019 with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds as of 23 November 2020. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraph 2, 157, paragraphs 2 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint single search be carried out on all points of the agenda. Does Mr. Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 157 for – 150, did not vote – seven. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Mr Zoran Pasalić, Citizens' Protector, Milan Marinović, Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, Branko Janković, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Dr Duško Pejović, President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, Jelena Stojanović, Deputy Protector of Citizens, Nevenka Bojanić and Ljiljana Dimitrijevic, members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, Milena Milinković, Secretary of the State Auditing Institution, Rada Kovačević and Gordana Mohorović, Assistant Secretary-General of the Service for Information of Public Information and Protection of Personality Data and Tatjana Prijic, Senior Advisor in the Office of the Trustor for the Protection of Equality. Welcome and welcome. I welcome independent institutions. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of that parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Articles 192 and 238, paragraphs 4 and 157 of Article 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on all points of the agenda. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Representatives are Mr Zoran Pasalic, Milan Marinovic, Branko Jankovic, Dr Dusko Pejovic, Vladimir Djukanovic, Dr Muamer Bačevac and Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Is one of the promoters answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2055	Honorable chairman, honored guests and representatives of institutions in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of Serbia, honourable Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2056	Alexandra, I'm sorry. I ask everyone who is authorized by the promoters to insert the cards you've received.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2057	I am convinced that the President of the State Auditing Institution Mr Pejovic will certainly give a detailed overview of the report on the work of this institution for 2019, but before that, as a proposing on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Finance and the control of the spending of public funds, I would like to say that we have indeed achieved a good co-operation with this institution in the past, that we propose many things together, we move and we really have the support of the Ministry of Finance in all of this. As a result of this work, we had 40 financial laws in this year, 27 of which we saw as changes and additions and the need to change many things, so that in an adequate way we would really manage public finances according to all international standards, and above all, in the interest of Serbian citizens, because this achieves greater savings when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The DRI report for the previous year is an integral part of the Action Plan in which the Finance Committee participates. Otherwise, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with the EU and the European Commission, adopted the Public Finance Management Reform Programme at the end of 2015 for 2016 by 2020, and every six months, the government sends a report to the European Commission, in that part, when we talk in general about the management of public finances, with all the purpose parameters, and this will best be the state auditor to present what it means, in particular by opening up certain and political issues that we have, when it comes to spending public finances. It is the government's obligation to send the report to the European Commission every six months, and according to the Action Plan, which the government also adopted at the end of 2015, which has 19 points, each institution has its own obligations. Points 18 and 19 are the commitments of the Finance, Budget and Control Committee to discuss the audit reports of the various sectors dealing with this institution and each year we have, as a result, an increase in the number of sessions outside the seat. In 2017 we had one, two, 2019 three and this year four sessions. At these sessions we had the opportunity to hear, we always took the best examples and we asked DRI to tell us which local self-governments have the best examples of spending public funds. This year, by the way, we started with Wracher. Here we simply defined what the conclusions were, after all, and where we discussed the report of the DRI for the previous year. In this report, we saw many irregularities that had until 2019 and the difference of all those who led institutions with extreme responsibility with the reform until 2019 and we did one analysis and comparison of how they were run finance at one time and how they are being led today. What was just most interesting to us at that session, is that we are looking at strategic frameworks dealing with the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to public finances, always considering the part relating to the budget, meaning a consolidated report on the Republic of Serbia's budget. For the first time in the Serbian Parliament, we had the vote together with the budget for next year. We've been considering the health care sector, which is of great importance to us in this year's Kovid 19 pandemic. We were also considering later reports that refer to local self-government itself, but to the part that implies the social. The most interesting part, I think, is that the one that refers to the methodology, i.e. the reports that cover the purpose, that is, the analysis of the purpose that is of paramount importance to us. I'll be back on the subject later, but I want to say that on the basis of this report, for the first time, you can see, firstly, that the report was done in an extremely standardized way, in terms of the report itself, where this resume initially speaks of what the DRI was doing in the previous year. It's done by international standards and in that summary, in fact, you can see a lot, which is an integral part of this report. You can see what the audit programs are. For the first time, this audit institution in this composition has separated the financial audit, the business audit, and then the combined audit and the purpose audit. You can see the effects of post-audit. You can see what the contribution is to bringing all these reports that the DRI is doing, and specifically when we're talking about money. You can see what recommendations the DRI makes when it comes to certain regulations, but also certain initiatives when it comes to amending and supplementing the laws themselves. In the end, the report also includes the part relating to human management itself, how they deal with big business, and how they cope with the development of their capacities, when it comes to professional people. Finally, you have international co-operation, which is obviously more than active, given that they were members of more than five projects and I think they had a large number of meetings when it comes to just reporting and showing what they're doing. The most interesting part of this resume, I think, is this particular part of the reviewing product itself. This is what they call reports, which say there are 133 reports on finance, then, financial reports, then, you have seven when it comes to regularity reports, 12 when it comes to combined and ultimately, 264 reports on post-revision activities, or 505 in total, which shows that really this job is very demanding. When you look at how much money that is, it's 451 billion dinars and when you see that, in fact, the system of financial management and control that exists in institutions, then you have to say that 88 entities of 159 introduced so-called. internal control system. So we're legally obliged that all institutions should have an internal auditor. This is the auditor who in the course of the year draws attention to how finance should be managed, and to comply with all accounting regulations, audits and, ultimately, what applies to even international standards, how it works for the accounting sector. This, of course, institutions' managers do not need to know, but they do have an internal auditor who needs to keep in constant contact and keep in touch with the management that it has reached. However, like everywhere, in Serbia, it is one process, which takes place and every time in our reports we suggest that internal control should be strengthened, precisely because as little work as possible would have been done by the auditor, after all, and an external audit, taken on the side, if you really want to be correct. Why does this matter? Any institution that wants to deal with any borrowing or reporting, it must have things in the nature of this report, and they are mostly seen to be positive, if you want to develop further and to invest certain funds. The recommendations she made for the DRI last year are 1970 and of that are 1221 for financial reports, 420 for business, 100 for combined, but 229 for purpose. When we talk about relevance, I will tell you that for us, the most interesting part of these reports for MPs, especially what, by examining certain items in their reports, were most interesting to deal with, let's say, with prevention, when it comes to floods themselves, when it comes to the efficiency of information systems for real estate registers, when it comes to public property, then, giving certain opinions when it comes to business space and the collection of business space at local level. We had the knowledge on Vračar that over 480 million remained unpaid until 2012. When it comes to Vračar municipality, as you know, there is business space one of the most interesting when it comes to the city of Belgrade and one of the highest prices when it comes to renting a business space that applies to the Old City. For us, it was one of the most fascinating figures in the matter of duty. Those who led until 2012, which were representatives of DS and Mr Kuzmanovic, have come to the conclusion that the municipality does not charge business space as a state money lease and that it neither bears any political, moral, nor criminal responsibility, precisely because when it filed certain court applications, these proceedings have never been prosecuted in the manner in which the law prescribes it. As you can see, some who were extremely irresponsible towards the financing and revenues of Serbian citizens, when we talk about public finances, today honor many criticisms about investment, investment and the adoption of certain measures that say that the law must be respected, and they were the actors of the most severe irregularities and non-compliance with legal norms. When we talk about the analysis of the purpose of water infrastructure, what was very interesting for us as committee MPs is that we noticed that the price of water in certain local self-government is different. At the end of this year, we asked that a little more detailed analysis be done for some of the following meetings, which is the cost structure that defines the price of water, because we know that this is a market issue, but we try to help all citizens of Serbia that when we talk about the price of communals that are even for the price of electricity, we can talk about that we can also predict and project fully uniformly when it comes to all cities. Of course, the conditions under which citizens use drinking water are not the same in every city, in every local self-government, but it is one of the important problems that we see in the citizens themselves and we want to help everyone and in local self-government, to find ways to solve this problem. When we talk about the subject of material support for poverty reduction, it is one of the topics that has always been the subject of analysis and the Fiscal Council, and the public, and certain economic experts who have criticised us this year, if you remember, when we have adopted as Parliament all of those proposals that the Government has made during the emergency, following Kovida-19, and when it comes to support and the private sector and when support was also for all citizens of Serbia, so-called. Support of 100 euros for reducing poverty and these active measures, and guarantee schemes, and suspending, or prolonging, the credit obligations of Serbian citizens. There are always measures on the target of criticism. I think it's good for the DRI to do one analysis. She's done that purpose analysis. I think it's good for all of us to have knowledge of what the effects are. After all, we have a topic that is also about protecting the environment. That's the part that was interesting to us -- industrial waste management, the import of used cars, how many countries looked through the fingers of all Serbian citizens when it comes to importing used cars. I think we should work on that, just by working together, we come up with certain quality solutions. Therefore, as a Committee, and on a proposal and with the agreement of the DRI, we adopted this report for the previous year at the Sixth Session on November 18th, by proposing that the conclusion, in addition to the adoption of the report, reads that the National Assembly assesses the work of the DRI for 2019 in full, as a presentation of the DRI's activities in the exercise of its constitutional and legal competences, that under point 2, starting from the recommendations of the DRI, which are contained in this report for 2019, the National Assembly recommends to the Government to take measures from its competence to ensure the implementation of the recommendations of the DRI, by proposing to the National Assembly the adoption of certain laws, as well as to amend and supplement the sublaw rules adopted by the Government from the competence of the ministries and which are specifically indicated in the report. Under three, starting from the DRI findings, most audited users of public funds have not established an internal control system that provides operations in accordance with regulations, internal acts, contracts, as well as other objectives. The Committee notes that it is necessary for the Government, with responsibility for the enforcement of these laws, to ensure the consistent implementation of the Budgetary System Act, and in the work relating to the obligations of the establishment of an adequate financial management and control system, introducing an internal audit of the beneficiaries of public funds. This conclusion will be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia and we hope that those initiatives that we are together with the representatives of the ministry... We must thank the associates of Mr. Cynthia Malloy who are in an active one-time co-operation procedure with the representatives of the DRI and the members of the Committee indeed agree that we are changing certain legal regulations in the following year. I have to say, that number of regulations is shrinking because we've obviously done a lot of things. In 2018, we had, on the basis of these initiatives, 30 amendments and additions to the law, this year 27 of the 40 proposed by the Ministry of Finance to the Assembly, and next year we propose 20 laws with amendments and additions, and we really have full co-operation when it comes to the Ministry of Finance and Proposing. We will propose to the National Assembly that all MPs accept this conclusion because we believe it is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2058	Thank you. As I said earlier, there are more proposing representatives, so they now have a first word. So whoever logs in from them will get a word. Mr. Bacevac, you signed up, but you're in more places here. In what capacity will you speak? (Muamer Bačevac: As a committee reporter. All right. I'm asking because you're also a promoter, and a committee reporter, and an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. For time, first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2059	Every question is healing, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to say something briefly in this first part. First of all, in order for a congregation to have a positive impact on the country's political processes, it must achieve three key criteria. Under one, there must be significant constitutional powers, but also to be respected in one state. The other thing is that this same congregation is independent of the government. The third thing, very important, is that it seems to me, too, President of the Assembly, that we currently have, that it has the organisational capacity to take decisive action. Assemblys that create a dominant policy in a particular country are rare in the world, but where that is the case, they are countries of prosperity, economic prosperity and top democracy. As best examples, I cite the German Bundestag or the Swedish Riksdag, because congregations dominatingly create politics in one country. It is we, the Social Democrats, who really insist on restoring confidence in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, on strengthening its integrity and strengthening the activities and influence that the assembly in one state must have. However, gentlemen, with all these two cases that I have cited, both in Germany and Sweden, the result that the assembly is highly respected is, above all, not from conflict policy but, above all, from rooted practices to negotiate and thus come to consensus, on the one hand, but also from the other hand and existence, I will say, one developed culture of social dialogue. That is why I am very pleased, and we have strongly supported it in this government, with the formation of this government and obtaining the legitimacy of this Assembly, or the formation of this Assembly, that we have established a new ministry that will deal with human and minority rights and, of course, initiate, insist on dialogue, society dialogue in our country. You know that the congregation has several functions. I must remind you, both myself and all of you, of that. First of all, a legislative function. It's the basic foundation of every congregation in the world, but that function has less and less space and influence. The congregations play an important representative role, as a link between the people and the government. In the 18th century, this function of the assembly was expressed by a slogan adopted by 13 American colonies that rebelled against the British government and said there is no taxation without representation. There is no taxation without representing the people in the Assembly. We are representatives of our citizens in this Assembly and we represent the interests of all those parts and all those citizens from the parts that have delegated us. It's a very important function of the Assembly. That is why the power of the congregation in a particular political system is also seen as an indicator of democratic rule. The assembly is often a place of political recruitment, where you can practically see the skills and the quality of young people, perspective people who delegate themselves to future leaders and to future, to say the most important decisions in this country. The function of the congregation under 4 is to give legitimacy to the regime, or government it elects, and to encourage the public to view the system of government as just. That's four functions. While the importance of the legislative and representative role since the establishment of the congregations has dropped to this day, so far more attention has been paid to the congregation’s ability to limit and control executive authority. The congregations are increasingly becoming control bodies today whose main role is to produce a responsible government and, above all, by developing institutional mechanisms to facilitate this role. In order to establish mechanisms for independent and independent control of the implementation of laws governing human and minority rights and freedoms, institutions have also been formed, including the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for the Protection of Equality. These organs...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2060	Mr. Bacevac, I asked you earlier, because time is limited, so I asked you. It's five minutes for the Committee's reporter.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2061	Here, I'll finish up soon, I've got a few more sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2062	You also have time as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2063	Yeah, I know. I know everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2064	Let me just distract you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2065	In this opening part, Mr. President, I have something important to say and I think what I'm saying is very important. Therefore, I expect your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2066	Can we take your time from this other one or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2067	You can go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2068	I mean, you can't do both. I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2069	All right. The important thing is to concentrate on the content, which is that the congregation has a supervisory role, that it is a very important role and that it is a role to cultivate. These trustees we speak of today in the modern world are being taken as the fourth branch of power, gentlemen. So, besides the legislative one, besides the court and the executive authorities today, there is more and more talk about the fourth branch of government, or the fourth branch of government, which is independent regulatory bodies. For this reason, I am very pleased that today in the tide, for the first time, we are discussing their reports, following trends in developed democracies and practically wanting to show everyone that we are interested in the public work of our government. In the end, I would just like to remind myself that we, MPs of the SDP, have taken part in the formation of these committees, and above all in the 2012 Committee on Human and Minority Rights, have taken part in its formation and managed by the work of this Committee, and it is indeed a crucial issue for us to achieve human and minority rights and gender equality. Finally, and president, our President, Rasim Ljajic, was the first human and minority rights minister in the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. All that points to the attention we give this. I would also like to conclude with one wise statement made by Woodrow Wilson that Parliament's rule is the rule of the board. Parliament in this plenary session is Parliament in a public exhibition, and parliament in the cabinets of its committees is parliament in action. Roughly speaking, strong congregations have strong committees, while weak congregations have weak committees. We will make sure that the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality is a strong committee and that, in coordination with the resolution ministry, which has been established, we align ourselves with Europe's most developed democracies in the field of human and minority rights and gender equality. I thank you, and in particular I will talk about the reports in this second part.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2070	Here's how tolerable I was, all minute and more you were saying, three. When you mentioned Woodrow Wilson, the American president, we forgot, a hundred years ago there was a great Spanish fever, where 30 to 50 million people died. That's when he got sick. However, as we always do, we never learn from all that happened, so a hundred years later we have the same protection measures as we did back then. No one has answered more than the proposing representatives, at least I'm here in the system, so if that's how I ask the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. Dragan Markovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2071	Thank you. I thought our guests would turn to us today first, but it doesn't matter. I want to welcome them all both ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have a few questions for the State Audit. It's an institution that's very important, not just this year, but in some ways directs economic operators to how they should work. I've been lucky twice that the city of Jagodina has control for a very short time, and we've learned a lot of things we didn't know, but it's left unarranged not only for Jagodina, this is generally for all local self-governments, unsaid what with those companies that failed, they were in restructuring, and then they entered the PPR, some of them are past, some of them have been liquidated, or the liquidation of enterprises, and you're leading a claim from earlier years for a certain figure that's not very small, which I think all local self-governments in Serbia have a similar problem? Furthermore, is it sometimes when something is called a higher power, and what is a higher force, it's a elemental disaster, a flood, a crown, can local self-government do something on its own and help citizens? Of course it can, but it has to be done, it's the interpretation of the State Audit to conduct a tender, to adopt a tender. It takes a long time and whether the team that needed help at that time will arrive on time or not. What's most important? I think a special methodology has a DRI and the way it controls economic operators and I've had that opportunity to explain it -- that's the law, we agree this isn't easy, but the law is like that and the law is passed in parliament. I expect you to propose amendments and additions to some of the laws that will allow both you and local self-government to work properly. For example, we had a criminal report when there were floods, we didn't list the kind of rodents, and we did disinfection and paid for a certain performer. No kind of rodents are listed, whether it's a small rat or large or not. Just so you don't get me wrong, I'm not criticizing the State Review, but I want to share your opinion with you and what it is that will change over the next period of time. Next, the laws are different. The basic education law says that children by the fourth grade are taking a teacher somewhere for a field trip. For example, in Jagodina for 15 years, we took the children to Buljarica to sea and there was an observation, even a criminal report written to a responsible person, which is not a tender for a teacher who will lead those children. Then a schoolteacher from Belgrade came forward and took the children from Nis, Jagodina and so on. I don't know if you remember, but it doesn't matter. What else is important? It's important that you, as a state auditor, control public procurement. The biggest hole in the law is exactly where public procurement is. Three bidders and says, "Here's the one that's the best." What do you think is the most favourable bidder? We have cases that, I don't want to talk about any city in Serbia, e.g. One city in Serbia has been adapting a 250-seat Cultural Centre to 350m dinars, and the other city in Serbia, it doesn't matter what it's called, has 600 seats for a newly built hall, an adaptation of an old hall for 335m. The point is how public procurement is done and that you comment on the Public Procurement Act. I was expecting when that law was passed that we would at some point know that there was some cash register where money was saved from public procurement and here it is, for example. a case of local self-government, not to list all state institutions in Serbia. What else do I want to make a point not to make, but to me as a multi-year-old businessman, there's no logic to that. You can't come and make a comment right now, for example. Nishu, Kragujevac, Jagodina, which some contractor didn't get the money in 45 days. If you don't get it in 45 days, then you have a problem, CRP, you're not going to pay your salary tax. If an entity, called local self-government, is agreed to build something that pays for two, three, four years, why would anyone mind or apply a law, if such an agreement exists? I want to tell you that rarely, local self-government in Serbia can fund some major projects on its own. All right, put a note on where to buy a car, but I still haven't heard some local self-government buy some angry cars now, like it used to be. But if the funds are invested to return to the budget over a few years or those funds improve the lives of citizens in that village, in that village, in that street, such agreement should be given. Then all that the performers are gathered together to us, he says, "O dear, you are over-indebted, and we are not." Next, what does overindebted mean? The value, i.e. the realisation of the budget from the previous year, gives you credit and credit rating if you are looking for credit or you could say that you are doing well, or if in percentages based on the realization in the previous year you do not exceed what the legal obligation should be allowed to local self-government. Now, all of us here are representatives of some parties. At the same time 10 days after the control of several parties, among them JS and we've been given an observation that we haven't assigned a person who's going to drive a car that owns JS, and that there's no maintenance of that car, service, or fuel even, because with me, a friend if you want to engage in a function, your car has to drive both as mayor and as president, I don't know what. You put that remark on us, criminal charges for it, that's what I'm saying for the future, that it doesn't happen to some others, and you wrote us a criminal report because we didn't determine by what criteria we share propaganda material in the election campaign. Let's say there was some big number, that we had some big donors, that we were paying money and what's right, you know -- there was a reasonable doubt, there was no reasonable doubt about it, but five times goes to Kragujevac, so you wait outside the judge's door and you pay 80 grand. Furthermore, we are punished, but also other local self-government, the higher power is snow, and usually when a contract is made with a performer, or one who maintains in the winter period of the road, a contract is made that only the main roads in the village are cleaned, and what if the snow has fallen 40.50 centimeters – to clean the side streets as well? We hire tractors where we give 20 liters per village and five thousand dinars to that tractorist. Criminal charges, responsible face, 90,000 dinars fine. I can deliver all that to you. It doesn't matter. I'm not complaining that we had that outcome. What else is there to do? For example, the State Audit goes to an institution and says – public procurement for children who went to sea, fourth grade, irregularity because they did not call a tender for a teacher, a million euros. Well then, in another procedure where public procurement is not a word – perhaps, and should stand a word – perhaps 700 000 euros. When all this is added together, you put it on your site, the journalists reach it and deal with a topic that is not true or not so defined. We're just asking you to propose as the biggest experts when it comes to, it's called economics, money transactions and to say – we think that if we apply these laws new or we do some old laws better, the state will function better and we will. Simply, the State Audit is one institution that we respect extremely, but you know what – it's not easy what's called a mistake or a mistake, what's called a non-intentional spending of money or a mistake that can be corrected. You usually write and give 70 days to correct the error of all institutions after your control. Maybe a little less, I don't know, and who corrects and has material evidence in 70 days, you take into account what's called an accounting error. It's no problem for you to make a mistake whether or not you've rerouted it from Conta 501 or from Cont 375, and you need to return it to 375 Conto. But it's very important when you give the report, it's very important to write what it is and is it how it's transmitted to the media? In the future time period, please, it would be much better both for the state and for you to pay a little more attention when it comes to public procurement. Who gives consent to an emergency procedure? What's an emergency procedure? If the school roof's gonna crash, we should wait till I don't know how long? Dear members of the state audit, we in Serbia have a constant of 20 entities that are recalibrating those who fulfil the obligation to carry out the work, and then they comment and delay the procedure, so you go back in the process, and the procedure is delayed. Some cities, such as Leskovac, could not pave the way for an observation that was in a formal sense nothing, but someone decides. The same state auditors should make an observation, i.e. advice. What else is most important? We've never had anyone, and 90% of us sitting here, we haven't had money in our hands, if it costs anything, our own, because Serbia and Yugoslavia for the last 40 years hasn't been in the best sense of that word, that you have money now, that you want to build a house as a private owner or form a private company, so at some point, you invest some investment in machines, you invest on contracts you have, but it's to be a criterion of state audit!? If we're making something now that will bring you money and money, and we have a contract with future users, then it needs to be isolated, not dealing with some things, just putting something in the record, it doesn't matter what. I don't mean you. Now, these are some remarks that generally apply to all local self-government. We should get advice from you in the future, not only give this report to the Assembly, on three A-4 sides, because no one reads more than three typed pages, you give a recommendation on what it is, before the local budget and other budgets are passed, but very important for the local, because there are a lot of people who are not from economy and economy, which is important to pay attention. The gulf side has to be equal to the luxuriant side. Right? What if the gulf side is smaller and the sterling side is bigger? What about the debts, the respected members of the state's audit, that's being transferred year after year, and the entity that's due to pay has failed, shut down? Is it an abuse, a misappropriation or a felony for someone who does not now transfer the claim, and thus a false report of the final account is made. Furthermore, attention must be paid, and that is where you should give tolerance, when it comes to depreciation, is not the same depreciation of a factory that works nonstop and a factory that stands, and it keeps appearing in the report and costs some. He can't have expenses and there's no depreciation. And that's one hole in the law that in some way hurts the state, etc. I have a few more questions. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, can you tell me again who's here? (President: All those who are at the helm of these independent institutions – Citizens' Protector, Mr Pasalic, Branko Jankovic, Commissioner. E, Protector of the Citizens. I want the Citizens' Protector to explain to me whether they are only concerned with protecting some people, or protecting seven million and some of the people living in Serbia? Do you see what the opposition is doing, threatening people in power, what they're saying about the president's children and what they said about the children of Ivica Dacic, who kept quiet for a while? But lately, what they're talking about is the children of the president of Serbia... I didn't hear you sitting here to issue a statement, so to speak, this doesn't make sense. That is why this congregation is seen in Shers 1.1. Now, as I speak, maybe it's three. Ladies and gentlemen - 1.1. It's not our fault, MPs, don't get me wrong. But here, they're here now to give us some reports, we applaud. If the camera can zoom, now the ratings at this point are 2.2 sher, and it's 0.4 to 1.3. The people sent us here to listen to us, to make laws, and that's why we're MPs here. We want and we want, but what now, is the same thing that happened before and now the revision goes again, I don't know where, to the Assembly of the City of Belgrade or somewhere else and the same -- it's not our fault, you're MPs, the Assembly is passing laws. You give us a recommendation. You're one of the most professional people I've ever met in my life when it comes to bookkeeping and economics. But not to be an expert in making a record, that entity pays the fine of 100,000 dinars. You know what, local self-government pays these clerks 50 grand. So he's supposed to pay his two salaries for something he thought was legal? How can we explain, for example, to children, you wrote me, or your people, a criminal report, a fourth grader, and their parents to come to take them to Buljarica to the sea from Belgrade? They say it's the Public Procurement Act, it's not our fault. I'm not saying you're guilty, but you suggest he change. What is it called helping citizens, social justice? What I gave three thousand for a gentleman and four thousand for a lady, and everyone laughed at me. They say, "How does Palma determine?" Well, I don't determine, there's a commission that does that, a social work center. You saw it in the record. Did you make us comment – how, by what criteria, etc. So if there's both a budget decision and a city council decision and it's not contrary to the law, that's how it should go. I'm sorry to go back to you. Gender equality, and I'm in big trouble here, too. You have to be sharp across the Social Labour Center if a husband threatens his wife in continuity for a year to kill her, 60 percent of that kind of realization happened, right? I don't know which one of you is, Mrs. Brankica...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2072	There's Mrs. Brankica, but you're out of time, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2073	Okay, I respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2074	The word is Dusko Pejovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2075	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the Parliament, I welcome you in front of the DRI and thank you for giving us the opportunity and opportunity to say something about the annual work we have submitted in time and according to the law, therefore, on the work of the institution for 2019. At first there was a particular misunderstanding, I wanted to report, but I didn't know at what point, so I would ask if you would let me briefly state the report I prepared, and the broader report you received as MPs by 31 March 2020 for 2019. This is one of the most important activities the institution has, that when it does its job to perform the National Assembly on its work done. And we did it through the report, we gave our National Assembly a report on what we did in the previous year. The report has a structure, content, issues, etc., that I do not speak more about it now, but in the report we show that the institution fulfils its responsibilities and how the institution executes its basic mission and vision. The vision is to help the state and its authorities manage their resources wisely, and the mission is to do so, reliable information that is responsible and publicly manages revenues, expenditures, assets, liabilities, public debt and all other activities. In this report is also proof of the commitment and professionalism of the staff of the institution, whose expertise and hard work, I hope you MPs in the Assembly too, and all citizens can see for yourself your decisions based on our reports. On 26 December 2018, the Council of the Institutions adopted a review programme for 2019 stating that financial reports and business regularity will be audited, that financial audits, audits of the regularity of business will be carried out separately and a review of the purpose of business. All planned audits have been completed, except for the National Bank’s audit entities, because the audit entity has not provided sufficient information and evidence to express the audit assessment by claiming that it is not the beneficiary of public funds. On the basis of recent changes and additions to the Budgetary System Act, a decision has been adopted that the National Bank is not a beneficiary of public funds and is therefore not subject to the authority of the State Auditing Institution. As for the audit products or reports, in a year's time we put together, wrote, delivered to you, and published on the site, of course and the subjects, 241 regular audit reports, 264 were post-audit reports, so that we can say that all 505 reports have been published on the site. Otherwise, to inform you, everything we do, every report is on the site, and a regular report, and response reports coming from the subjects, and post-audit reports that we draw up as an assessment of credibility, the truthfulness of those response reports. All these reports are on the site, as well as recently on the site there are recommendations registers so that each individual at any time can see the subject, the recommendation and its status, whether it has been removed, whether it has been removed, whether it has been partially removed or its removal is ongoing. There were 251 audit entities on these grounds. 140 audit assessments or opinions have been given, of which 33 unmodified or positive estimates, 102 reserve reviews, four negative assessments and one abstention, i.e. no evaluation. For 10 subjects, we have expressed the view that it is a violation of the obligation of good business, and in the case of one entity that it is a serious form of breach of the obligation of good business. Now, we're going over, so I'm going to cut it short, not to take a lot of time, to these amounts that are quantified in irregularities, which is that in the preparation actions for the collection of financial reports, there have been errors in the total amount of audited entities of 163.2 billion dinars. As far as financial management, control and internal audit are concerned, the situation is as follows. The most significant findings among the users of audit entities in the field of FUK are the lack or incomplete existence of internal acts that regulate internal procedures and procedures, which are not in line with internal acts with more legal acts, that no control of the documentation has been carried out, that untrustworthy accounting documentation, as well as any other weaknesses seen in the failure to establish auxiliary books in the book of non-compliance with the main book, the wrong organisational, economical programme internal classifications, as well as the wrong elections of funds. As far as internal audit is concerned, I can say that 149 entities with an obligation to establish an internal audit function have been found to have an internal audit established by 64 entities or 43%. In 17 subjects, it was partially established, in the sense that it was introduced into the internal organisation, that it would be formed, but no internal audit was established, or no one was employed. 68 subjects or 46% have not been established at all. This is where we see the biggest problem in the public sector. Therefore, an insufficiently efficient, internal control system, as well as an insufficient establishment of an internal audit or even where it is established, does not give the expected results. This is the main problem that arises in the public sector, which I will discuss in future information and show certain amounts. For example, in revenue and in receipt of error, 65.6 billion dinars were found. This is, therefore, the revenues were achieved, they were recorded, but they were errors in accounting records. When I say in accounting records, don't speak to this amount in a negative sense that these are small things. So, when we review the financial reports, we confirm or dispute the statements presented in the forms. It is not the same when it is shown on a thread some amount compared to the other amount that we determine in the revision process. This is not the right, true and objective representation of the results of all business changes, i.e. changes, as well as transactions carried out themselves. This is why it is important that in the review of financial reports, it is actually done, it has not been abolished, nowhere, nor in Western Europe, in the world developed, only a small number of reports in terms of this area, but the revision in the financial area, and therefore it is very important to correctly determine how many incomes and receipts were made and how many expenditures and expenditures were incurred. When we confirmed the income-related form, we determined 65.6 billion. This is the failure of the internal book, for which they are responsible, not those who are at the head, they are certainly responsible for everything, but are responsible for professional people who work bookkeeping and economic activities. As far as irregularities are concerned, they are related to activities that have led to serious consequences, it is 29 million, so 29 million is income irregularities, and in mistakes it is in billions. As for expenditure and expenditure, the mistakes are 79.3 billion in wrong booking on any basis, I can be more specific if you're interested in how, what is in the description of who, etc., but now that I'm not wasting time, I mean, there are errors in recording in significant amounts, and there are irregularities in expenditures and expenditures are 3.94 billion dinars. In employees, one billion are irregularities, where wages and profits are miscalculated, whether because of the basics, whether because of these coefficients themselves, whether because of some other stimulations or other elements being introduced, which are unknown to the law. Now we're talking about public procurement, and it's very important to say, we've covered 29.2 billion dinars of public procurement, we've identified 2.82 billion irregularities, or 9.7%, or we've circled every ten dinar in public procurement in the audited entities, there's some of the gaps according to the procedure set out in the Public Procurement Act. What's the most that's going on in contempt of this law? This is that the competition documentation lays down additional conditions for participation in the procurement procedure which is not logically linked to the subject of public procurement at which the action is or that the calls for submission of tenders and notices on the conclusion of the contract have not been published on the public procurement portal within the prescribed time period or within the time limit itself or have not been published at all. However, what is the biggest irregularity in public procurement is that expenditure and expenditure were incurred without the public procurement procedure being carried out, and there were no grounds for the exemption from the application of the Public Procurement Act of 306 million dinars or contracts in which the infringement or violation of the public procurement principle was carried out. A total of 238 million dinars were committed above the approval of the appraisal, and this is mainly about local self-governments, which have a framework or a propriety or a right to a certain amount in the implementation of the budget, and this is the taking over of commitments above the approved appraisals, and if that amount goes beyond a million dinars then a criminal application is written and that is something that we constantly warn the units of local self-government and only so far have we written criminal charges on that basis. So what's previously said, and I'm going back to that, all that's said is a criminal report relating to a misapplication that really isn't the same, but it's the application. The public debt was confirmed to be 54.5% on 31 December 2018, i.e. the participation of the debt of the general level of state in GDP not including the restitution itself obligations, and according to the GDP data of the Republic Statistics Institute given on 1 March 2019, which means that it is above the level of 45% of GDP, but is significantly below the level that was 31 December of the previous 2017. As regards preparatory actions to draw up consolidated reports, significant irregularities relating to the list or the incomplete list or incompletely executed list of non-financial assets, financial assets, liabilities and equity themselves have been identified. The balance sheet is really the largest deviations in non-financial assets, financial assets and capital, and they are 188.7 billion dinars, and here are the most pronounced accounting problems. I especially stress that, you noticed that the second time we report to the tide, we separate errors related to accounting errors from irregularities relating to errors in the management of the organization itself. As a result of our business, we've found errors in 73.6 billion dinars. In 2019, we took the biggest step in reviewing the purpose of business, because in the previous 2018 we had two teams, two teams, who worked for a year two reports, worked on two topics, and in 2019 12 audit teams were trained to work, and in 2020 we increased by one team and planned 14 teams next year. So, we keep growing the number of teams in the field of purpose of activity. The Honorable President of the Committee has highlighted some of these topics, and I'm just going to read them, and if you're interested in something that's very important in purpose, I'd like to take a closer look, if I'm not wasting my time right now. We've been doing flood prevention in the Republic of Serbia, and we've established certain activities, this kind of review is different. It does not refer to financial reports, it does not refer to one entity, it does not refer to one year. It relates to the systemic problem and to the problems in society, in general and these problems are disturbing, what we have heard earlier in the presentation that we have, because it is part of it that is talking about systemic things, and we from the angle of reviewing the purpose of business, we can and we need and we want and we want, because we are developing teams and part of the institutions in this direction to process. So, in 2019, we had the prevention we mentioned, we had the determination of the efficiency of the public-owned IT system, further, the provision of competition in the centralised public procurement process, the lease of business space in the local self-government unit. To see what significant, frantic data we've come up with and I want to bring them out here, it's all published in the report, it's all in the institution itself. The effectiveness of the incentives in livestock, the purpose of water infrastructure management, the availability and regularity of drinking water, material support as a measure of poverty reduction, the financing of laboratory and sanity materials and the impact on health care costs, the management of industrial waste, the efficiency of control of the exploitation of mineral wealth and the efficiency of the acquisition by the competent authorities. If there is interest, I can make details through your interest, but just to point out that we gave 1,970 recommendations, the status of these recommendations on yesterday is 89% of the recommendations, fulfilled for the recommendations of the first priority for which time and time for them to be implemented. Are we an initiative to amend the legal rules, what the president of the Committee and the honourable MP have shown as if it were our obligation, Article 5. The DRI Act in paragraph 1 of point 8 states that, in addition to conducting the audit, the DRI has the possibility to propose to amend the rules which occurred in the revision process, where we have found that some of the prescribed things can affect or affect certain activities in the overall system. And to say that we have launched 301 applications in a year, 256 offenders, 272 persons, 12 for a business offense, 79 persons responsible, 33 criminal charges for 33 responsible persons and a total of 301 applications for 384 persons. In addition, we have given 47 information to the competent authorities, in which we have detailed information on all the things that we have instructed the competent authorities to take further action and their ingenuity. As for the effects, the determination of effects in the audit procedures is a new task and obligation we have, these are in the old and effects and entities together with us, but also the National Assembly together with its institution, because we work for accounts for the needs of the National Assembly to carry out controls, or audits and determine the effects. So, the effects are determined by increasing revenues from the entities themselves, affecting expenditure reduction and also other additional effects that are seen in the greater showing of assets in better preparation and budgets, by showing in the numerical part, or quantified these activities, but there are also a lot of activities that cannot be quantified, but can be described by changing the law, by adopting strategies, etc. The Council of the Institution, as the highest authority, had its activities, we had our sessions. The most significant concern is the adoption of a new strategic plan and an institution action plan for the next five years. In addition, to inform you that last year we have marked 175 years since the establishment of the main control established on 26 July 1844 in the Principality of Serbia after the adoption of the Sretenjski Constitution for which we took it, we have been defined as being preceding today's state audit institution and just to point out that in Article 107 of that law, it is stated that the prince and the state council are in charge of establishing a state accountant who will observe the spending of people's money. You see how picturesque it is and then in this law of activity that we have. We have co-operated with all interested parties, and the largest and best and most efficient co-operation we have with Parliament, or with our competent committee, and of course we will have in the next period with all other committees because we have many topics that are being processed from different areas and that will describe systemic matters. With this opening part, if I'm short, I'm glad. I think I've answered the good part of the part you've sent, but here's the respect you've made, so I'm saying that no criminal charges have been filed on what you've made. Every criminal report at the bar was only filed on the basis of a breakthrough of appraisal or over a million dinars, and that's easy to explain. Why? Because the budget is an annual document, the most significant document in parliament for the state, so a decision on the budget at the local level for the local self-government unit. And for that year, in that amount, there is a set of appraisals and there is an important planning. Appropriations were granted to the executive body so that they could make commitments to that amount. Once that amount is crossed, it's already gone with the problem. Up to a million dinars is a crime, over a million is a crime, it's a 362a member of the Criminal Code, which you voted here. The State Auditor has no right to apply any other law than the applicable law. If you think the laws need to be amended, let them change, but while they are in effect, as the term "dura lex sed drug" goes – "hard is the law, but it is the law", we must apply it and honor it. So no criminal charges on that basis are from a member. Second, there could be an emergency and any case. Article 7 and 7a. The law on public procurement has regulated how these cases are handled. So it goes short, speedy, etc., but it goes according to procedure. The problem is that there is no procedure at all, even if it is not planned, even if there is no financial plan, no public procurement plan, and it is being obtained. It's the biggest problem that exists with the local self-government unit, and not just here, but with all those who do. Last year I reported that there were 878 million purchases without a plan, this year it's 306. So, you can see some drop in that, but it's still a significant amount, the public funds are being spent past the law, because one man decides on it, so whoever it is is not in accordance with a regulation that says that a competent assembly needs to decide. I've seen more of these items and I appreciate that there's a problem. You're absolutely right about that. I know you know very well at the bar all the things they have conflicting, inaccurate, etc. And on this very matter with the Committee, we have launched initiatives to change the rules of law. I'll mention the one from Kocelje's own. The Honorable People's Messenger has turned my attention a long time ago. The Budget System Law said that the deficit cannot be greater than 10%. That's what you brought, and we proposed an amendment that wasn't adopted, to be over 10% possible, but only in a situation where there are own funds, not out of credit, but when the municipality collects a certain amount and collects it in excess of 10% and can't spend it, because it has a legal limit. And now this initiative of ours is active. The question was why Belgrade again. So, I would ask as many questions as possible. I'm completely open and I'm glad you're asking, because when you ask, we'll get explanations that are very important and we'll be away from the misunderstanding why Belgrade. We've brought in our review planning guidelines to cover at least 70% of the funding at the state level that's being implemented to audit at least. This year we revised 81%, last year in 2019, 71%, that's number one. Number two, we've made such a decision that everyone who has more than 1% of the total state-level execution is subject to an audit. It's 28 billion now, that degree. Belgrade has over 120 billion executions, the province has 75, Novi Sad is there... So they are necessarily covered by the locals every year because the larger budget has a higher risk of irregularities. The other units of local self-government are covered according to the possibility of the staff we have, and so on, because we have been prescribed by the law what must be revised every year and everything else that we can do. As for the maintenance of roads and so on, it is indeed part of the procurement that for children, for children, etc. It's all part of public procurement. It can and should be done in a way that fits one side, and the procedure to obey, because we don't impose anything. That's what the legislator ordered. I just want to say this one more time, so let's round up this exposure. Since two years ago, we have changed the way we conduct the audit, that from the long-term multi-month review combined we are now coming to separate audits so that the revisions of the financial reports in local self-governments come to us in front of the committees, which so far has not been. So last year we had 23 cities, 22 of which for the first time in their final account had the opinion of the state auditor. This year, the pandemic had a prolonging of these deadlines, but of the 26 units of local self-government 23 received an audit report in time and had it in their congregations, some had none, some had it until now, some had no assembly on the final account, or on the report, which we had drawn up and directed to them. It's a very big advantage when an audit is done in the making of a final account. Advantage is that we help colleagues who make final books not to make the failures unnecessary in that part. I'd stop here. If I didn't answer everything, here, I'll answer, but first I thank you for the attention you've given me and the questions you've asked me, because I know you're a great know-it-all at the local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2076	Thank you, Mr. Pejovic, for the clarification of Council Report DRI. Replica, Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2077	I can say I'm pleased with your explanation. As one great expert, you've always had a good exposure, and often when I've listened to a lot of things I've remembered, but just to tell you that in the King there's no criminal court, there's an organized crime court in the King. In correcting it, you found that there was no abuse or that someone else was materially benefiting from it, but you added up all the numbers when it comes to public procurement. I want to correct you, you said – the Public Procurement Act must be implemented. Okay. The Belgrade High School sent children on a field trip, launched a tender, but did not call a tender with children. That's what we need to see. You have to admit that a large number of laws are in conflict with the methodology you're conducting. And you respect the law, but that law may be unspeakable or your methodology that you do and the way you do it brings harm to someone. You simply said that the number, or the number, is reduced. It was 800 and something million, now it's three... It's a good thing not to repeat mistakes and all local self-governments should be visited to get information not in terms of control, but lectures, as you've taught several times in Jagodina, where you've invited all directors and it's of great importance to them, but, watch out, when someone goes and admits it, it's called opportunity, admits something and that 100,000 dinars, a misapplication is 5,000 dinars, and not 100,000, you understand? And you wrote to us about rats, snow and teachers from Belgrade or Zaječar who would report to take their children on a field trip. So that's generally true for everyone. Give us the laws. You said it was a bill that the surplus could be over 10%. It's the first time I've heard that. I would support that bill of yours. You know what, filling budgets in local self-government is unpredictable, except for the city of Belgrade and Novi Sad. How can the one from Čupri, Jagodina, from Leskovec, from Vranja, be certain that, I don't know, they will put 10 buildings on the escalator, where local self-government benefits from taxes, i.e. communals per square of business-room space are paid. Nothing's safe. I have one more question. What about NGOs that compete as budget users, the budget is realized by 80%, and they've had 100,000 in their plan, and they're looking for the end of the year to execute the other 30,000? Is the budget being implemented based on the realisation of NGOs or on the basis of plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2078	Thank you. Replica, Dr Dusko Pejovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2079	It's all right, we agreed, but let me just add it. This way, criminal charges are filed only for overruns in the appraisal. And what did you spend it on? Well, we're not about rodents or I don't know why. We're about money. We're about to make commitments. On what basis it's done, we don't get into it. That's number one. Number two, it's true that we've filed criminal charges for you, it's true that because of the taking of obligations above the appraisal, and it's true that the prosecution has taken over, and whoever called you and what happened, we have no authority, no information whatsoever, and so we can't answer, because in our jurisdiction it's not that area. I didn't get the best idea about NGOs if they were being executed... I'd like you to renew that question for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2080	Thank you. Right on line, MP Dragan D. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2081	If you'll excuse me, I don't know if you remember, you've made a point to us that more money is spent than the realisation budget plan, but we've provided you with a request from some entities in a difficult situation. You said, "If the subject starts to pay, we withdraw this from you." We deliver to you that the entity has begun to pay and has paid the amount of the debt and the claims have been reduced, and you have not stripped us of our responsibility. I'm sorry. I won't answer that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2082	Thank you. Before we move on to the next reported one notice for today's session. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The public defender, Mr Zoran Pasalic, applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2083	Thank you. (Dragan D. Markovic: The auditor wants to answer me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2084	I didn't see you sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2085	I remember it almost as if it were. So it's true that you asked for it, but it's true that you didn't charge for it, and it's true that you took the obligation above the appraisal, which was a problem at the time, but we wrote that you had a claim. So, we've introduced all the evidence, all the facts that you've proved in your later response report not only that you have these claims, but that you're charging, and you're absolutely right, but at the moment you're making a commitment, it wasn't those payments and the problem is that there's more commitment to taking over than you've had your income achieved, and I know what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2086	Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Pasalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2087	Thank you. Dear People's MP, it is indeed an honor and a pleasure to have you closely monitor the work of the Civil Protection Institution. On some kind of question – which we are protecting, I will tell you that in this same respected home when I swore and when I took over as Protector of the Citizens, I said that I would open the door to the citizens and absolutely claim that I did. During this time, I personally spoke to thousands of citizens and visited almost all the places in Serbia, both the ones where we were invited and the places where we came on our own initiative. As far as the child's rights are concerned, we are very successful in protecting the rights of the child. We have a confession from the Global Association of Independent Organisations dealing with the protection of human rights or, to clarify, from the Association of World Ombudsmans, we are protecting and protecting for a truly great, full commitment to speed up our work, not entering into who these children are. There are more examples this year where we just did it. For a reason called the secondary victimisation of these children, I will not really mention their names, but they are both in the reports and in the press releases of the Citizens' Protectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2088	Thank you. The word has Dragan D. Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2089	Don't get me wrong, sir, you're the Guardian of Citizens and you say your door is open. But the president of Serbia can't come to your door. There's something called official duty. No one can threaten anyone in this Serbia, especially the president of Serbia. It's continuity, not six months continuity, but Sundays. Tomorrow we will come to the turn of the MPs, you who represent certain institutions in Serbia. Maybe I'm disabled when it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, having experience with the former Protector of Citizens, that he wasn't protecting anyone, you're doing something. For me, the key thing is, who are you protecting and what are your ingenuities? What are your ingenuities? You were the Guardian of the Citizens when a man broke the flag here, I don't want to mention his name, you were the Protector of the Citizens. It's the citizens who worked at RTS, and someone broke into their workplace. Whose obligation is that? The police have done their job, but if all institutions were to do their jobs, the European Commission report would not be as harmful to Serbia as it is being prepared for us, etc., and we have not opened any chapters this year. I don't want to blame any of you, but sometimes you have to work and you don't want to be in charge, and you're helping someone, and it's not a crime. If I'd only done what I had to do, I'd have kept goats and sheep in Concharev. I apologize for speaking in a tone like this. I don't want to yell at you, but that's the theme. Me, Jankovic, subconsciously somewhere, stands out what he was doing, that he was getting big salaries, he and his associates, and he formed a party. Maybe you won't form a party, I'm sorry to compare you to him. Maybe that's why you're insulting yourself. But I can't hear you. Look, I don't know you. I, who watch all the televisions, have seen you twice in my life, and now I ask Zika, who was he? Look out, I'm a public life person, and what are ordinary citizens doing? You need to walk in Belgrade, each other to say hello to you and say good-bye or to give you some objections that are not right for them. Are you walking the Prince of Michael? Don't walk. Don't say you're the Guardian of Citizens, because they'll think you're Jankovic, but say you're something else. (President: Time. I'm sorry, 10 seconds. There's this one from my neighborhood called Chokorac and he's calling me - I need to get in here right now to tell you something. I say come. He comes and says, "I better not tell you anything." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2090	Thank you. Mr. Pasalic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2091	I really thank you for this remark, because then I can explain to the citizens of Serbia who are looking at this for sure, some of the parameters that the Citizens' Protectors are working on. The protection of citizens, both under the Constitution and by law, is solely responsible to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, through their representatives in this respected home, means, neither the executive authority nor the judicial authority nor political parties, regardless of whether they are in power or opposition, or NGOs, or associations of citizens, except you, Serbian citizens. So, the observation that Jankovic didn't do anything, I apologize for using the name without Mr. Sasa Jankovic's presence, if I'm doing anything, absolutely doesn't stand. In addition, it tells one fact that these citizens of Serbia or that our citizens of Serbia or those for which we exist are in the research carried out by institutions that are not very fond of the Citizens' Protector, funded by the European Commission, I think, have come to the conclusion that the greatest trust in the Republic of Serbia and whom they would first address in the event of a problem, is the citizens' institution, which has proved to be in an emergency. As for my contact with citizens, I really don't need to get popular, because I'm doing a job where you can't be popular or at least you can't be popular with everyone. There is one expression that I love very much, that is, one sentence – many would have loved it if you hadn’t tried to like everyone. I am not trying to please anyone, but to do my job in the way that is foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Protector of Citizens. As far as coming to an institution or receiving from me personally or from my associates, whether it's a Serbian citizen or a government president or any institution, I couldn't list everything now, all the valuable interests in the Republic of Serbia, or it was the President of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Parliament, or the Prime Minister or any institution, always and at all times our doors are open to them, and it can be confirmed to you by all those who came to us, where we didn't rank whether there was a small problem on the general criteria or it was a big problem, because everyone comes in thinking that his problem is the biggest and where we could, where we didn't have legal restrictions, we did our job. After all, these results of trust in the Civil Protection Institution tell us that. We cannot, unfortunately, no matter what we are an independent institution, go through our powers, that is, through what the Law on the Protector of Citizens has given us, and primarily the biggest legal act of the state, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and where it has restricted us. I thank Ambassador Markovic. He has now raised a very important issue, and that is, you will soon find a new Law on the Protector of Citizens, which was yet to be completed in 2016, because this is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia under Chapter 23, an obligation relating to the accession of Serbia to the EU, but much more important than that obligation by the Republic of Serbia is what this law contains, and this is a greater possibility for the Citizens' Protector to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, it is very important to mention, for one reason, that we increase certain powers, we take the obligation that we will meet in a certain way, which is to protect even more adequately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because I repeat, we are here for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we are solely responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, through their representatives, i.e. You, esteemed MPs in this esteemed home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2092	Thank you. Before the replica, Mr. Markovic, Marijan Risticevic, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the spirit of Rodoljub Šabić rules this assembly. Namely, I'm advertising Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, using the right of Article 103 to do so. According to Article 96. — in the basic procedure following the opening of the initial search of each item of the agenda of the National Assembly, the right to speak in accordance with the following order and time, the duration, shall be subject to the proposal of the act, i.e. the authorised representative of the group of motions which shall be given the word when requested and shall not be subject to restrictions on the duration of the presentation. I'll do it again. I'll do it again. I'll do it again. The draft act is proposed by the Committee on Human Rights, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Finance. Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic made the right use of it. Respecting the report, respecting and present, only the motions of the act can speak, and the motions are the chairmans of the committee, i.e. committees and committees at their session of powers, who will represent the motions of the act here. The conclusion is an act of the board, but in time Sabic, that I do not speak in what psychophysical state, has raised the revolution, as – as you have called us to the session if we do not have the right to speak, and the ministers of the act come here, accompanied by their officials, assistants, state secretary, chief, etc., but cannot use the right of the act promoter, but only the promoter can do so, and that is the minister. In this case, the proposed conclusions are committees. I would ask the chairman, if he can, that we bring this session to the Rules of Procedure and that the representatives of the committee, as motions of the act, address us here with the assistance of all those present, against whom I have nothing. I'm not asking to vote on this, but I'm telling you that the spirit of Rodoljub Šabic, which Mr Marinkovic knows, who has raised the revolution here in time, as – what did you call us if you don't let us talk, is now ruling the National Assembly, these moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2094	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I feel like I'm running a session in accordance with Article 27. The word is Dragan Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2095	Mr. Pasalic, it is that the institution you represent is independent, but you have given yourself too much autonomy to carry out what the job description of the Citizens' Protector is. You said, "Someone will like you, no one will like you." You're not a lady. Ladies like it or don't like it. Your work and work and report on work and what is happening in Serbia is a criterion for whether someone will give you a high grade or not. You said a high grade was given to you by a European institution. I don't mind, but apparently your statements or reports are exactly what they're comfortable with, or they're okay with those statements of yours and that someone backs what's going on in Serbia. Do you see them looking for dialogue now? What dialogue? We have, I don't know, 50 parties that are extraparliamentary and they're looking for dialogue with the president, they're not representative. And that's where you're supposed to get involved. They attack every day. Wait, my friend, so today they can form 100 people 50 parties and say – I want to talk to Wolf, Dacic, I don't know, some minister, etc. This Protector of Citizens should say -- you're wrong, people, first you have to get into parliament, then you have to exercise your rights. You didn't go to the election, so you don't respect the Constitution of this country! You didn't make the election. That's right, it's not an obligation, but don't just ask for a right without having to make a commitment to the citizens, check you out like we're all checking out, put a name and a last name, and go to the polls. It's your job, too. Leave the autonomy and what it says in your job description. You see, the whole world started attacking Serbia for no reason. They hate Serbia because Serbia has stronger economic progress than those other countries. They hate Serbia because Serbia has implemented the best measures, when it comes to this evil called the crown.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2096	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Pasalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2097	First, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for your sake, honourable MPs, I must explain. It is not about any European institution, it is about what could be freely called UN independent institutions or the ombudsman of a world based in Geneva, where Serbia has A status and the right to speak in the UN of such an institution. So let's not marginalise an institution that's recognised by all the countries of the world as an institution that brings together all the Heroes, to simplify, or all the independent institutions that deal with the protection of human rights. Their confession is not the recognition of some ad hoc organization, one. Under two – Article 10a of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, it limits, i.e. that the Citizens' Protector is not allowed to make political statements or interfere in politics. It's not punishable, it shouldn't be punishable, it's enough that it says it's not allowed. In my work, I stick to it very much. Of course, like every Serbian citizen, I have my own opinion on all political issues, but while I am performing this function, I must not publicly say it, not me, but the deputies, and I am trying not to give it, normally not wanting to deny them the right they have, the right to free opinion, and those who perform significant functions in the institution of the Protectors of Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2098	Thank you. The word is Mr. Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2099	First, you need to know that politics is life today. You should get involved in violence. Was the violence when they beat up Marijan Risticevic, a man who never got in a fight in his life, in front of the Parliament building and tore up his jacket? Is that violence? It would be easier if you didn't answer me, because your answer is really weird and it's like you don't live in Serbia. You don't do politics, so you write political programs and ideologies of political parties. Protecting citizens. We're citizens here who sit. Whose are we? What are we? Who sent us here? Who set you up? No one's asking you to abuse your official position, but raise your voice. Don't wait to be praised by someone who attacks Serbia every day, how human rights are threatened here, and I don't know what the media block is. What human rights? We changed in the election year to instead of 5% the price for entering parliament, and then we all gathered signatures at the notaries, and the president allowed those who rebel every day to collect signatures in the municipality. Do you know what that's like? What human rights?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2100	Thank you. The word is Branko Jankovic, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2101	Dear People's MP, Mr Markovic, you have certainly raised one very important question, and only from these few opening statements of yours can we actually see how much we need together and how important it is that independent and independent state bodies work to protect human rights and, in particular, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, exclusive protection of the right to equality, or the prohibition of discrimination, and how good it is that we consider our reports in the tide and for us, it is very important that we hear the voice of the people. For me personally, the voice of the people is the most important. It is also true that the report praises the relevant UN committees and, of course, as a candidate country and candidate countries for EU membership, their reports are important, but it is undeniable that what the National Assembly says, as a top authority, as a legislative body, is the most important thing. You asked who we were protecting, since the question was the same for everyone, did all seven and a few million inhabitants? Of course, absolutely everything you can see in our report that contains a detailed state of respect for equality, discrimination and contains reports on all grounds. It is also often thought that the majority population is not protected because there is also a part relating to discrimination against national minorities, so it can be assumed that the majority population is not protected. On the contrary, there are our citizens with disabilities, our oldest citizens, our youngest, women, children, and they are all members of either the majority population or some of our national minorities. As for your question – whether it responds to injuries, threats, insults to children, in a particular case, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, mentioned and whether we are speaking, of course, but those threats and insults, especially today in the era of the digital age, would be quite common, so that the use of the powers of the Commissioner for Protection would lose its full purpose. I don't have any dilemma, I don't think you can, I don't want to hold back right now, we have a lot of topics to talk about today, to show you all my public appearances in which I've just pointed out that children and families must be this red line that doesn't cross by any political party, it doesn't matter whether it's in power or in opposition. For example, I will only give you one of the statements, since we are considering the report for 2019, I will not be from this year, and this year this institution has been without a leader for six months, so the Commissioner has not been elected until November 26th. Today is exactly a month from my reelection to this post, but here, on June 25, 2019, for which we are considering, you have a public warning about the threat to the children of the President of the Republic in which the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Branko Jankovic, strongly condemns the children of the President of the Republic. Inadmissible are any insults, threats and disrespect on any basis and it must not become a form of daily communication in public space, especially on social networks, where this speech has culminated in recent weeks. Political or any other disagreement cannot be an alibi for insults or threats to public officials and members of their families, as well as any citizen and citizen of the Republic of Serbia. It is high time to stop talking like this and for all competent institutions to take measures in accordance with their responsibilities, the statement concludes. You are certainly absolutely right that a public space like this must not be filled with disrespect or insult, let alone hate speech. In that sense, I welcomed the adoption of a new Code of Conduct of People's MPs, who should be the leaders in this care of equality, mutual respect, and that this is being shed somewhere on our society and that it should be a role model for all those who are also outside the Assembly, parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties. Also, when it comes to equality, you're absolutely right. I agree with you that it is our great social problem that we should not close our eyes and close, because in the last few years, we have welcomed the better and coordinated work of the state authorities that are responsible for preventing domestic violence and acting in cases where it happens. That's primarily the MUP, but also the social work centres, health care facilities, and not to mention, of course, everything. The trustee for the protection of equality has no authority, therefore, cannot act in that sense, but can always indicate what problems are in the system itself. In that sense, I'll also read to you, you have page 209, but the report has 450 pages, it's large, I believe you couldn't, you people's MPs have a lot of obligations, I believe you couldn't even get to read every page in detail, but here you have in a statement, precisely on a case of violence, in which it is explicitly stated exactly what you say about the problem of the Centre for Social Work, it's May 26, 2019. We've reached out to a three-time murder in Novi Sad where her wife and her parents killed her husband. The statement said concerns must be raised which must be followed by an urgent reaction from all authorities. This case of terrible murder confirmed that the system of protection against violence against women is not effective enough, despite all the measures and activities that have been taken. Despite the Law, the fact is that more responsibility is needed, as well as that all social actors must finally become aware of their duties in the protection and safety of women's lives, victims of violence. In this case, the particular problem is that the murdered woman reported her husband two weeks earlier for domestic violence, but apparently someone in the chain of responsible failed. Years ago, the role and importance of media in curbing violence against women has been pointed out, as well as the need to stop sensationalistic reporting. However, some media unfortunately provide room for violent people to publicly abuse and humiliate their victims, thus causing general damage. So, it is true that this is a problem and that we are constantly advertising ourselves and that social work centres are given a general recommendation that in the process of giving an opinion on the assignment of custody of minor children, it is precisely acting, not under the prejudices of the subordination or the authority of sex, but in each individual case, it brings an opinion on what is in the best interest of the child. Thank you, indeed, for noticing all these things, which assures me that once again, although I never had the dilemma that independent institutions and the National Assembly are the most important and the best allies in this ageing of a politically mature and responsible society and that in the Assembly, as the highest home, all the problems are spoken of no matter how painful and sensitive they are. We have had personal experience with the city of Jagodin that you are leading, so perhaps at first it was not understood, so there may have been resistance in some respect for our recommendations, but later it has really changed and it is very important that the recommendations of independent institutions in removing some discriminatory provisions, which is often not intentional but sometimes a matter of ignorance and that things move forward. Thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2102	Thank you, Mrs. Jankovic. The replica of Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2103	I'll be brief, and I won't answer again. I'm happy with your answer, but I have a proposition for you. There used to be a peace council in every village in the city, local communities, etc. The peace council was tasked with the peace of quarrels, marriages, neighbors, etc. Since you seem suggestive, you have authority, I can freely say that you are a good psychotherapist, that you and your service are starting to visit Serbia, so let's say, in Nisavska County, you have ten cases that have two or three children. Kids can't be victims. You go in there and you say, "Let's sit down, have coffee, etc" and see what the problem is. That's what you're gonna do, not to say I'm doing it now, but you're gonna make it. You know what, sometimes men are vain, but when a lady like you comes along and says, "You see, your little, good wife's children, she's clean in your house, she's making you," I guarantee 80% of them will never be threats and domestic violence again. Please answer that question and promise both mothers and fathers and children that you and your team will leave February to do so. You don't need money for your institution any special, take one chocolate to the kids. The biggest problem is alcohol and gambling, you know, it's the biggest problem in the family, asking a man to take pictures of someone who went to the bookies every day, what he used to have, what he had today, and who every day drinks and becomes aggressive and the victim is his family. Thank you. I just want you to answer this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2104	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is Brankica Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2105	Thank you for your support, sir, MP Markovic. Let me just say, not to be that we haven't been present in Serbia so far, I've walked it along and across several times and I completely understand everything you've said and as a woman just born in a small forest village, I understand very well what real problems really are and what helps me to do. We are truly visiting Serbia and we will continue further, because only last year, I don't know, this is measured by hundreds, we have held a series of trainings, a workshop for identifying and responding to discrimination, as well as the application of all these regulations and with representatives of local self-government, police officers, labour inspectors, national employment services, tourism workers, social and health care providers. Not to answer directly now, and I always like to give the answer directly, when it's just violence we don't have that authority except to work on it, to recognize these patterns that lead, where it's actually about gender-based violence, where the causes are just gender inequality, be assured that I will continue to be very committed to this matter, using everything that is to the extent of legal authority and with partners, especially with children in schools, but also with institutions like the social work centres that need this kind of support. Of course we remain most present outside Belgrade, as all our citizens and citizens of our country live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2106	Thank you. Mr. Marinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2107	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency and the Honorable People's MPs, I must say at the beginning of my personal feeling. Today I feel twice as satisfied and it's nothing as persuasive, I really feel that way, and for two reasons. One is, for the first time as the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, I have the opportunity to say that defending this is not the right term, but to represent the report that was made about the work of the institution for 2019 and I have the opportunity to address this solemn home which, among other things, has chosen me as a trustee. Secondly, it is my great pleasure to conclude that the second year in a row has come to the agenda of the plenary session report by all independent state authorities. For a few years, that wasn't the case, and it was a conviction. As it was for the conviction, this is now commendable. Therefore, I thank you for having succeeded in such a tight agenda as you have had since you were elected Members of Parliament to participate in this calendar year in your agenda to consider the report of the supervisory authorities, namely the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. This shows the seriousness of this home to commit itself to respecting all human rights that the supervisory authorities, or independent state bodies, are doing and are protecting. What Mr. Markovic said, I will take the opportunity now to look back on it as a positive one. If the sher has been increased at least a little today, this should show citizens' interest in the agenda, i.e. citizens' interest in the work of independent state bodies. And that's good. We, I can promise as the Trustee, whenever you invite us, I will gladly participate in some sessions or, it doesn't have to be at sessions, but either way, because we're open to any kind of communication, our work is transparent, so you know that you have the hand of co-operation provided by an independent state authority. I'd be crossing now, but very briefly, on the resume of the report. Of course I won't explain the entire report, because it's quite extensive, it was done a lot in 2019, with one note. I was elected Commissioner on July 26, 2019. I stand behind the Report as if I had been a Trustee since January 1st, because the Report is truly comprehensive, meaningful, it's been done a lot and I think it's positive for the institution of the Trustees. I would like to thank Mrs. Stanojli Mandic, who, as Deputy Commissioner, performed that function until my election. As regards the Report itself and the summary of the Report, you are well aware that the fundamental role of the Trustee as an independent state body is in accordance with the laws on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data to protect or facilitate the exercise and promotion of rights laid down in these two laws. Previously, in 2019, as I said, it was marked by the choice of the Trustees and marked by a change in the practice of the National Assembly that I looked back on at the beginning, which is very, very positive. I invite you to this occasion, so that I don't forget later, that you continue with this practice. I think this is a meeting of the Assembly, which, as soon as possible after the constitution, has scheduled a plenary session to discuss reports from the supervisory authorities, which is extremely commendable. I'm here for the first time, but I see a lot of young people, young MPs, which convinces me there's energy to do a lot of work, even in areas where the trustee is responsible. As regards the report itself, the Trustee also faced the same problems in 2019 and the challenges that were before 2018, not to mention in previous years. It refers to the number of objects in the work. We've had 13.989 received, 13.997, so a little bit more, uh, solved cases. However, we had the largest number of cases related to resolving complaints about the violation of the right to free access to information of public importance. This increased by 60 % compared to 2018. But there's one reason. Only one information-seeker was responsible for this, who literally sought information from all educational institutions in the Republic of Serbia. However, we have also managed to cope successfully. For a number, information on the processing of personal data and information or the provision of expert opinions relating to the adoption and modification of regulations or their application shall be provided. As far as the area of free access to information of public importance is concerned, I can conclude that the Institute's right to free access to information of public importance remains largely used by citizens. Because 70% of information seekers who complain to the Trustee are individuals, followed by associations of citizens, journalists and media representatives, the authorities themselves, then political parties and their members, lawyers, economic operators, etc. The applicants find it most difficult to obtain information relating to budgetary resources, public procurement, investments and other facilities and records of public funds and assets. And the number of complaints concerning this information was almost doubled in 2019 compared to the number of complaints in 2018. The situation in the exercise of the right to free access to information of public importance has not changed significantly compared to the previous year. Unfortunately, a large number of complaints come to us because of a phenomenon that I have repeatedly condemned publicly, which is the silence of the authority of the administration, or so on. the silence of the administration. When a person submits a request to an authority for free access to authorities, a request for free access to information of public importance is a time limit prescribed by law in which that authority is to act. That doesn't mean he has to give that information, he can reject the request, he can refuse, he can partially, etc., but he has to do it. Over 50% of the complaints that come to us are due to failure to comply with the basic right of citizens to receive any answer. In that sense, in order to speed it up, in order to actually eradicate it and to lead to the institutions respecting the citizens, I have proposed to the competent Ministry of State Administration and local self-government when it is being changed, and I have had consultations these days with the Minister and the assessment that it will be very soon, in the first half of the following year, this depends, of course, on your work, when changing the Law on free access to information from public importance and protection of personal data to prescribe a fine issued by the Trustee by the wrongful order, or by giving the Trustee to responsible persons in authorities who have not acted at all on request, or who ignored the request. In the structure of complaints in free access to information of public importance, 61% make complaints against republican, state and other bodies and organisations, one quarter of which is against ministries and bodies in their composition. This number of complaints against republican authorities increased in 2019 compared to 2018 by over 71%. It is common that authorities are largely acting on the request of the applicant only when the Commissioners receive a complaint asking the Commissioner to make the complaint known. It can be concluded that in 2019 there was an increased number of complaints against public enterprises by 4.70%, but the number of complaints were reduced in relation to the authorities of the judiciary, the authorities of local self-government and the regional authorities. The information is often denied under the pretext that it is confidential or that giving information would hurt someone's privacy or in the form of abuse of rights by an information seeker, mostly without argument or evidence. The fact is that the authorities' more and more frequent responses are that they do not have the required information. I note that the trustee is not able to verify this in fact since the Trustee is unable to exercise control over the application of the Free Access Act, but is doing so by the Ministry of the State of Administration through the Administrative Inspectorate. The state of free access to information of public importance also makes a significant contribution to the fact that the legal mechanisms for the enforcement of the trustee's solution, i.e. the mechanisms for monetary administrative punishment of the authorities, are completely blocked by the amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act in 2017, which were made in the best interest. However, they are inconclusive, and we have suggested that when the law is amended to return fines to the nominal amount, which unfortunately proved much more effective. As regards the responsibilities of the responsible persons for the denial of information, the authority responsible for the filing of the indictments, which is the Administrative Inspectorate in 2019, submitted only one request for the initiation of the infringement proceedings against the person responsible. In addition, citizens have submitted 4,903 requests as damaged for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure to competent courts. This is not a normal situation, no law requires citizens to be the primary applicants of the indictments. It should be an authority that oversees the application of the law and we will advocate that when the law is amended, it will change. The degree of confirmed decisions of the trustees in the court procedure since the start of the institution over 94% and this is the best confirmation of the quality of the work of the Trustee and his service. As far as obstacles to the right to access information are concerned, the key problem is the legal framework. It has been a long time since 2018 and 2019 to amend the Law on free access to information of public importance. I sincerely hope he gets into congregation procedure, somewhere in April, we'll intensify our activities. For the first time, the Commissioner agreed to participate, of course, I was not the Trustee until last year, for the first time agreed to participate in the work of the Working Group, which would have done a draft law on amendments and amendments to the law to make it as effective as possible and to make it more effective for citizens' rights. The delay in the adoption of amendments to this law, but I sincerely hope that this will not happen, has the necessary effect and delaying the amendments to the sublegal act on the making public of the labour informer, which is the obligation of the Commissioner. We have long given the initiative to publish information about the work of state authorities in digital form on a common electronic platform for which we have already created appropriate conditions, but our brakes are a change of laws. When it comes to international documents, I say it would be useful for the government to launch a procedure for ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents since 18 June 2009, signed by the then Serbian Justice Minister in 2009. The importance of this Convention, when it enters into force, would be that it would represent the first general legally binding document of the Council of Europe on access to official documents, regardless of how much it would contribute to the change and expansion of rights, because our law gives more rights to this Convention. We talked about the inability to execute the trustee's solution properly. As for the activities of the Commissioner in the field of protection of personal data, I repeat that the Personal Data Protection Act began to apply on 22 August of last year, but this is only the beginning of a legal framework in the area of protection of personal data. In order not to forget, it is very important to inform the MPs that according to the Personal Data Protection Act, its provision that all laws and other regulations dealing with the processing of personality data which do not comply with the Personal Data Protection Act must be in line with that law by 31 December 2020. That's in five days. Of course it's logical that it's impossible to do, for several reasons, they were mostly objective, the government disbanded, the assembly disbanded, we had elections, which means that the deadline was unrealistically short-term. I now publicly propose to the National Assembly that the team meet, I will also send a letter to the Government to decide before the calendar year expires, e.g. In a year, which would be my estimate enough for this very extensive job to be done. In this context, at the end of last year, I also held consultations with the Prime Minister, with the aim and the idea that the protection of personal data should be re-activated, or for the first time, but also an updated data protection strategy adopted by the government in 2010, no action plan has ever been adopted, no working group or commission has ever been formed to implement that strategy, which means that it has not been revived, but it is good that it exists formally. Meanwhile, there's been a lot of changes. We have received a new Law on the Protection of Personality Data which significantly differently regulates this area. The European Union has its general regulation relating to the same area, with which our law is quite broadly, particularly grammatically agreed. So, in order to do this big job that applies to the alignment of all regulations in all areas, it is necessary to do it strategically and then to share the job and see who will do it and to do it within that time-consuming period. In 2019, the Commissioner also supervised the application of the Personal Data Protection Act. Unlike the area of access to information from the public importance of the new Personal Data Protection Act, the Commissioner was given the right to exercise control over the application of the law and to carry out inspection. 701 surveillance has been done. The most common reason for launching the surveillance procedure was the use of personal data, names, last names and addresses of some persons, contrary to law. Also, we sent the addresses of various data handlers 1053 control lists on which 975 handlers responded, 72 did not. Based on the completed checklists received, we have assessed the level of risk of data processing by all data handlers. That's where everyone was covered. So both state authorities, and local self-government, and companies and all the most significant at this point data handlers. Also, under the new law, we are working on complaints filed by persons regarding their processing of personality data, and until last year we also acted on complaints. We had 60 complaints. They mainly refer to data on citizens, police records, official registers containing personal data, records they keep, court records, disability and health insurance records, etc. Also, according to the legal obligation last year, the Commissioner gave 85 opinions on drafts and draft laws and other regulations and general acts, 54 of which are on drafts and proposals. In the end, the Commissioner implemented 39 personal data protection training throughout Serbia, not only in Belgrade, but in the good part of local self-government. The idea is to continue with this, of course, when this Kovid epidemic situation is subdued. We have great support here and we have good co-operation with representatives of local self-government, with a constant conference of cities and municipalities. So I hope it continues to the general pleasure. Finally, the Commissioner proposed to the National Assembly and the Government how to improve the situation in these areas. They're very short. Two suggestions, you've already adopted and thank you for that. It is one thing for the committee responsible and the National Assembly to consider the report of the Trustees for 2019 and to establish a proposal for a conclusion. The second is to open a debate on the report and the proposal for conclusions, and that is what is being done right now. In addition, we propose and it is very important that, without delay, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Meaning, drawn up in co-operation and in accordance with the suggestions of the Commissioner, in a text that would contribute to the promotion of the right, that competent committees and professional services of the National Assembly in the process of adopting laws with due care to consider the views and views of the Commissioner on the possible effects of these laws that come to our opinion, effects on the exercise of the right of free access to information from public importance and the right to protection of personal data. We also proposed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a new or amended strategy for the protection of personal data, in line with the current state of data protection in the field of privacy data protection, then an action plan for its implementation and all in collaboration with the Trustee, to consider without delay the opinion and views of the Commissioner on possible effects on the exercise of the right to free access to information and the right to protection of personal data, in accordance with their own obligations to establish an adequate mechanism of security and enforcement of final, executive and binding solutions of the Trustee and to ensure, in cooperation with the Commissioner, that competent ministries and other bodies of public importance establish a public access to information in the field of access to information in the field of public access to information. You will only allow me at the end, since this is a unique opportunity, and it is the end of the calendar year, to wish to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, the representatives of the citizens, a happy New Year, that we do not have the situation we had this year, to return to the old good, to say, conservative normality, and to this so-called. a new normality, or abnormality, as soon as we leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2108	Thank you, Mr. Marinovic. The word is Zoran Pasalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2109	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, as you know, this is the 13th citizens' protector's report since the establishment of the institution and the third in my mandate, the 2019 report. In 2019, we started a systematic improvement in the U.S. citizens' institution by reorganising professional services to bring citizens closer and help citizens to achieve their rights and start what is very important to me, to draft a new Law on the Protector of Citizens in order to comply with the principles of the Venice Commission and EU standards, and certainly, as I pointed out, firstly to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and protect their rights. As you know, the Civil Protection Institution is an independent state body with a mandate to protect citizens' rights and control the work of state and all bodies entrusted with public authority. We fulfil all our powers in accordance with the Constitution, as a basic legal act and the Law on the Protector of Citizens. The reorganisation of the institution, first of all, improved work through direct contact with citizens, practices that I have introduced immediately upon coming into the position of the Protector of Citizens, because I believe that we are in, only in a personal conversation with citizens, before filling out forms, forms, the best way to know and see all aspects of the problems that citizens are addressing. In 2006, a conversation was held, as I said, with thousands of citizens, specifically ended with 2019, where I personally held a conversation with 2,600 citizens. Also, I continued to practice citizen admission every month, all those who want to talk about how to deal with employees who are specifically handling their complaints, and what is also important with deputies, or who wants to talk to me personally, which has shown extremely good results in relation to trust in the institution of the Protector of Citizens. What has been noted is that citizens have the highest number of objections to their rights in local communities. For this reason, the activities and responsibilities of the Citizens' Protector have been directed towards all parts of the Republic of Serbia. What I have repeatedly claimed is that Serbia is not only Belgrade, for this reason in 2019, I visited 13 cities and municipalities and talked directly to citizens about the most common problems they face and met them in which situations they should address the Citizens' Protector and how they can exercise their rights. Through direct meetings with citizens, especially in smaller towns and cities across the Republic of Serbia, we have seen that citizens from the institution of the Protector of Citizens expect to change the decision of the state authorities, to influence the outcome of judicial proceedings or to deal with the assessment of the professional work of the competent authorities, which is not within the scope of the functioning and jurisdiction of this independent state institution, also shows insufficient knowledge of the jurisdiction and of the Protector of citizens, which, for all this time, we are trying to bring citizens of the Republic of Serbia to know their rights in the first place, and certainly with the powers of the Citizens' Protectors. It should be absolutely emphasized here that what the institution and I have personally pointed out several times, which we have repeatedly pointed out, is that only by extending or giving new powers to the Citizens' Protector could we practically help them in those situations that they most often complain about. In 2019, around 11,000 citizens were returned to the Ombudsman, and more than 3,200 complaints were received in which citizens pointed to violations of their rights. Appeals of violations of rights in the economic and imuvine area, areas of good administration, social cultural rights are dominant. The complaints of citizens relate to the greatest violation of the right to protect property, the right to receive decisions within the legal time limit, and the right to respect the best interests of the child. Realising property and economic rights is the area in which citizens in 2019, but also years ago, have had the most difficulty in achieving their rights, so these issues personally, I have personally talked to citizens not only those living or staying in the Republic of Serbia, but also those citizens who are currently living in the Republic of Serbia, but who point out problems in these property-economic rights, or the achievement of those rights when they return to their homeland. In the context of the reorganisation of the institution, and in order to respond more quickly and efficiently to complaints from citizens in early 2019, I formed the Emergency Treatment Department. In just a year's work, this department handled 281 cases that had to be resolved without delay. These were mainly subjects with the assumption that the complainants were at risk of life or health when their rights were roughly violated or brought into an extremely difficult position or could be caused by material damage and other damage to larger scales. Compared to the previous year 2019, the number of responses of the Citizens' Protectors was increased by their own initiative in cases for which we received information through the media or through social networks. I must point out that when the Citizens' Protector gets the information, he doesn't access the activities before he checks the information so that there can be no abuse of the citizens' institutions. So, when you get the information all the facts are checked and then access the relevant activities by the institution. Why am I stressing that? Because in a number of cases, the information we have received, I do not stress it, nor point absolutely to any media house or to anyone's portal, were it true or not complete. Compared to the previous one, 2019. ... the number of responses of the Protector to those issues concerning the rights of the child. So in 2019, and certainly in 2020, but it is not the subject of this report, the Citizens' Protector showed special care for children. I am proud to point out that we have achieved the observed successes on the plan of international and regional co-operation, because in 2019, along with the already signed five, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the mid-terms of five other countries that have been defined in or up to the details of co-operation, procedures and protection of both our citizens in the territory of these countries and the citizens of those countries in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We signed memorandums with Romania, Greece, BiH, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, which was particularly effective during the state of emergency, as it made it easier for those citizens returning to their homeland in direct contact with these institutions to return to their homeland in terms of crossing the territory of those countries. At the end of 2019, the selection of Deputy Citizens' Protectors was also made, as my current deputies are Dr Natasa Tanjavić, Mrs Jelena Stojanović and Mr Zoran Tomic. What I would especially point out is a 12-year-old experience in the area of child rights protection. With special attention, the Ombudsman considered the adoption of the law during 2019, which would introduce another new independent institution, the child's rights protector. I believe that multiplication of such institutions especially from a situation where an existing body, i.e. The citizens' institution is successfully doing its job, and when the state, in our opinion, needs to be very rational to spend financial resources, we thought in 2019 and unfortunately this situation that has hit us all, not only in 2020 but in the whole world, which is a global pandemic, has made it even more clear that the funds that would be formed or spent on the work of a new institution that would overlap with many powers with an institution that already exists, which is an institution for the Citizens' Protector with a special child rights sector would not provide better support to children, but that those funds should be directed to those institutions that deal with child protection as their regular jobs. The draft law on the rights of the child and the Protector of the rights of the child, which has been put into consideration by the public, does not offer any new mechanism for protecting the rights of the child compared to those already in place under the jurisdiction of the Protector of the Citizens. I repeat, I am deeply convinced that the duplication of institutions that will deal with protection, promotion, improvement of the rights of the child is not in the interest of Serbian citizens at the time of implementation of economic austerity measures, whose effects have been reduced and allocated to children and the number of employees in the public sector including areas that are vital for children, especially if we take into account that, after the state austerity measures in 2019, the Republic of Serbia, but the whole world in 2020 has been hit by a severe economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the Kovid virus, which is not known how long it will last, nor what will be the effects on the economy and finance of all countries, including ours. Due to insufficient financial resources due to the implementation of economic measures, services for children are not developing, and some have been abolished, among which one of the first austerity measures in Belgrade has been the suspension of funding for children's streets. At the same time, a significant number of local self-government units have not established a personal escort service for children and other forms of support for child education, lack of financial resources. For the same reason, there are fewer and fewer employees in the services and home-type institutions involved in children. For example, professional workers in centres for social work, professional school associates, health workers for children, educators, care professionals in children's homes. For all of this, I am convinced that the additional detachment from the budget for the establishment of a new body that would do the same job already done by the Children's Rights Sector of the Protector of the Citizens ceases not only irrational spending but insufficient financial resources, but also an inadequate attitude towards all citizens, children in particular. In addition, my position speaks of the interpretation of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, also addressed to the signatories of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, including the Republic of Serbia. I quote – specialised independent institutions for children, ombdusmen or commissioners for children's rights are established in an increasing number of foreign Contracting Parties, where resources are limited, and attention must be paid to making use of available resources for the most efficient way of improving and protecting all human rights, including children, and that in this context, the development of a wide network of national human rights institutions, with a specific reference to children, is probably the best approach. In its structure, the national human rights institution should include either a recognizable commissioner who is particularly in charge of the rights of the child or of a special department or department responsible for the rights of the child. Why am I quoting this? Because it has been repeatedly pointed out that the recommendation to set up a new institution, as you could hear, is not so, but in line with the financial opportunities of the state, should turn to what is most rational. In addition to increasing citizens' confidence, it is necessary for the Child Rights Sector, the Citizens' Protector, to do a good job on the protection of children's rights, came from the UN Children's Fund, UNICEF and the global association of independent rights institutions, which they have identified as an example of good practice on a number of criteria. One of the achievements, according to which the protecter of citizens is internationally recognised for the way children are provided, is the establishment and operation of a panel of young advisers of the Citizens' Protectors who make up children aged 12 to 18. The citizen's protector is the first state body in the Republic of Serbia to include children in its work. For all of these reasons, I believe that the new institution of the Protector of Citizens, and I will end this topic, is really not necessary. The obligation to pass a new law on the Protector of Citizens is one of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in the process of joining the EU. I stress what is most important, the adoption of a new law, these are greater rights of citizens, i.e. greater possibility of protecting citizens' rights than is the institution of the Protector of Citizens. The law that is currently in force is the law, I may say, time has passed. The institution of the Protector of Citizens, and therefore the law under which it acts, is indeed a very live organism, if I can say so in a Colloquitically and indeed must, at certain times, suffer certain changes, and as I said not to repeat myself, in 2016 they should be executed, and we as an institution within which I consider it not too long, have made a very big effort to draft this law completely and I want to thank you this way to the Ministry of Administration and Local Self-Government and Minister Obradovic, who has really urgently taken all the questions about the new Law on the Citizens' Protector in consideration, and I hope that he will be in front of you as soon as possible. What increased in 2019, in large numbers, are unannounced visits to national torture prevention mechanisms, shortened NPMs, places where there are or may be persons deprived of liberty in order to deter state authorities and officials from any form of torture or any form of abuse, as well as to direct state authorities towards the achievement of accommodation and other living conditions in institutions where persons are deprived of liberty are placed. In 2019, the national preventive mechanism carried out 77 visits to institutions that deprive persons of freedom and eight controls of the procedures of the forced distances of foreigners, and four visits were made to monitor the treatment of refugees and migrants. For the first time since its formation, the national preventive mechanism has carried out 16 visits to military facilities, or premises to carry out disciplinary measures, consisting of a ban on distances from special rooms in a military facility. In addition to working on this, what does not belong to the 2019 report, but I, the honourable MPs, must point out, that those who deal in detail with this issue, which is the NPM and part of the Emergency Treatment Department, have been on the streets of Belgrade all the time in the summer of this year and have followed the events in citizens' protests and given a global report, although this is not the subject of the 2019 report, I had to point out that. In addition to working to protect women and children victims of violence, we paid special attention to people with disabilities and old people, Roma and Roma women and LGBT populations. We have addressed a number of recommendations to improve the work of the Authority in order to remove obstacles that these vulnerable groups continue to encounter. Insufficiently developed support services, transparency in public life, obstacles to education and employment, poverty and prejudice. We have pointed out to the competent authorities the need to improve the rights of fighters, military disabled persons, civilian disabled wars and members of their families, which is also very important, if I may say the most important, because the loss of my family members who are disabled from past work, military disabled or civilian disabled often forget their family. Here we pointed out the adverse consequences of high amounts related to what is one of the problems facing not only the population but all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In 2019 we always pointed out and the institution particularly dealt with the very high tariffs of public executioners that threatened the existential security of citizens. Not only in terms of tariff levels, but in terms of tariff accounting and possible abuse. During 2019, the Ombudsman sent public authorities 44 opinions using a legal provision to act preventively by giving advice and opinions on matters of his jurisdiction to improve the work of the administration's authority and to improve the protection of human freedoms and rights. I would like to draw up an opinion addressed to the Ministry of Culture and Information on amendments to the Law on Public Information and Media in order to protect the rights of children in the media and media reports, which is why the opinions addressed to the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber of Public Executive in relation to the compensation for the work and mechanisms for the control of the work of public executioners, as well as a number of opinions addressed to the competent authorities in order to ensure the accessibility of persons with disabilities. We have addressed 13 other opinions in the process of preparing regulations to the Government and the National Assembly on the draft laws and other regulations, as well as two opinions in accordance with Article 19(1) of the option protocol, in addition to conventions against torture and other cruel non-human and humiliating penalties and procedures. Although proposing amendments and laws to the National Assembly is the last step that the Citizens' Protector takes as a rule only when it assesses that the authorised High Order Proposer will not take the necessary steps in favour of citizens' rights on the basis of an initiative, recommendation or second proposal by the Citizens' Protector. In 2019, we submitted 15 legislative initiatives, three of which were adopted, six were rejected and six were considered by the end of the year. With the most challenges in this reporting period, the Citizens' Protector met in the area of child rights protection and during the year considered 223 cases, of which seven were launched by his own initiative. The Ombudsman addressed 43 recommendations to the authorities of the administration that were fully followed by all recommendations. Also, during the year of the report, the Citizens' Protector took an active part in solving cases of missing babies from maternity homes in the Republic of Serbia. I have personally dealt with this issue in detail, repeatedly met with different associations of parents of missing babies to call them that, it is a public-accepted term, there are data that can be considered accurate, that is, evidence that this problem really needs to be looked at in more detail and solved in the right way possible. The suggestions we made and the proposals we're going to make were accepted by most of the parenting associations of missing babies. This law empowers the Citizens' Protector, which is very important, by law relating to the protection of parents and missing babies and by what is considered a law that should solve this problem, to initiate judicial proceedings on behalf of parents who suspect that the child has disappeared from maternity care. I am pleased to have been given the right to the Protector of Citizens, and I must tell you, although this is part of the activities of the Protector of Citizens, in 2020, that we have really responded to the obligations arising from this law. One of these is that we sought to delay the possibility of filing a lawsuit by the parents of missing babies from the maternity ward and I thank you for having adopted it, both because of the situation in which we all found ourselves, which is because of the epidemic crisis, many of them could not use this right within the deadlines provided by law. As regards the protection of child rights, it has been observed that limiting employment in the public sector in 2014 has endangered and made it difficult for children to exercise their rights in many of them to bring down sensitive systems to protect the most sensitive groups of the population. Thus, the number of employees in social work centres has been reduced by a fifth since 2014, while the number of users has increased by 11% in the same period. It is particularly concerned that the number of reports of domestic violence in social work centres has increased by 161% in the last five years. I'm sorry to have to distract you. The citizens' protector has launched an initiative towards local self-government, according to the largest centres such as Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Novi Sad that the victims of domestic violence, primarily women, because they suffer the greatest violence, allow for a free review at the Institute of Judicial Medicine, so that what the lawyers say will fix the injuries and could not come to the point that in a judicial procedure a bully can't prove the certainty of his violence is released or less punished, and in this period we will continue to be unable to order, we can't condition, but we can ask that local self-government provide funds for this purpose, especially not being large funds. I can even tell you the original budget at the Belgrade city level was three million dinars a year, which would include that all women who suffer violence can turn to the Institute of Judicial Medicine and carry out a free review of the circumstances of what they have experienced, and also includes training for all those involved in this system, that means both the police and the D.A.'s Office, so that they can easily recognise what may be considered as consequences of domestic violence, i.e. the injuries that occur in such situations. Children in families where domestic violence occurs are not identified as victims of this violence, so they are neither planned nor applied adequate protective measures, and victims' children are exposed to secondary trauma, or how it is used rightly, victimization. The information contained in the complaint points to the possibility that children are exposed to multiple retraumaticisation, despite the existence of legal provisions that allow the child to be heard in a way that prevents secondary trauma and protects the well-being of children who have suffered from trauma. Out of respect for those children who have survived the trauma, violence of their own kind, which the public was not aware of, but the media about it really inadequately presented information about these children, in the conversation with these children, which we have done in this institution and not on our insistence, but on the insistence of these children to talk to us, we have received information that was, at the very least, without wanting to be pathetic, terrible, which is to treat those children, in terms of media reporting, and often taking statements from those children, has traumatized them more than the act of violence they have experienced. Please, honourable Members of the people, let us pay attention to this. Unfortunately, things like that happen today. In this problem, by investigating this problem, we have come to the realization that many children and many families are covering up violence, violence of every form, so that this number of children is more than what comes to the public, that in a period that comes especially with this problem. Criminal and legal protection of children remains not fully in line with the Council of Europe Convention and the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. The citizens' protection initiative for changes and additions to the Criminal Code has not been fully accepted, resulting in some of the key problems. The degree of criminal and legal protection of the victim's child depends on the child's age. Criminal acts of the extramarital community with minors and genealogies are not prescribed as crimes against semi-freedom, so there is no possibility for them to apply the law on special measures to prevent the conduct of crimes against semi-freedom against minors. In the context of gender equality, authorities acted on systematic recommendations made in the previous year by the Citizens' Protector after in 30 cases of femicidal, domestic violence, child abuse and neglect identified a number of individual and systemic failures, such as inadequate co-operation by the authorities responsible for combating domestic violence, the lack of information exchange, non-recognition of violence, the lack of measures and activities to which authorities were required. The work of the Citizens' Protectors is best discussed by the Council of Europe's recommendation to fight violence against women and violence in the family, GREVIO, directed to the authorities in Serbia, among other things, to make sure that the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors are implemented and monitored regularly. However, there are still shortcomings that prevent the full exercise of rights based on the pregnancy, birth and care of the child, which the Citizens' Protector has been pointing to for years. In particular, these shortcomings highlight the illegalities and irregularities towards children and families and the particular incorrectness and multiple harmfulness of the provision which stipulates that the right to profit compensation during the absence of work for the special care of a child cannot be achieved for a child who is entitled to an allowance for the assistance and care of another person. Neither in this reporting period in the direction of improving the position of LGBTI persons are rightly governed by the same-sex community, nor the consequences of adapting to gender and gender identity, nor have any other essential measures and activities been implemented to improve the position of the LGBTI community. In 2019, a high rate of intolerance of young people towards persons of different sexual orientation and gender identity remains noticeable, but despite the opinion of the Citizens' Protector, the Law on textbooks does not include an explicit prohibition of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, nor an explicit prohibition of content that encourages the formation of prejudices and stereotypes, nor are they employed in the educational system and in the institutions of that system trained to sensitise appropriate treatment. Accessibility as one of the basic preconditions for equal participation of persons with disabilities in all areas of social life is still not sufficiently developed. During these tours of the cities that I was talking about earlier, we personally convinced ourselves that people with disabilities are often inaccessible institutions that make up their daily life, such as the executive institutions that are inaccessible to them, so we addressed the local community to change that. There are indeed local communities in Serbia, there are cities in Serbia that are truly for every praise, which have allowed people with disabilities not only access to these institutions, but also what has made us particularly happy with the institutions of culture, such as theatres, cinemas and other institutions, so that they can fully achieve their rights. It happens very often that the inaccessible or difficult access is precisely the institution I was talking about. Also, what was very important to us, which we paid particular attention to, it is a complete deprivement of business ability and continued legal practice in Serbia, contrary to the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Final Observations of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. By visiting the facilities in which the persons were housed, we found that many of these persons had no business capacity, that was taken from them by their relatives, and that this was not done in the law. As regards the protection of the rights of members of national minorities, the Citizens' Protector established a practice in 2019 to hold regular quarterly meetings with representatives of all national councils of national minorities in Serbia. We have established a new practice, which is that we meet quarterlyly in those cities where national minorities in the Republic of Serbia are the most represented. Meetings were held in Belgrade, Bosilegrad, Novi Pazar and Subotica. Unfortunately, this epidemic has prevented us from continuing this year, but I am convinced that we will continue as soon as this evil passes, and for now we are in that kind of communication that is available to us, the electronic communication that is now the only possible. What's the big deal? It is important to stress that this cooperation, in our view, is good, that certain problems that we are solving are indeed those that are repeatedly highlighted by members of the national minorities. I wouldn't single out, and I wouldn't particularly point out, but I can't say that this specifically applies to members of the Roma national minority, so that practice of regularly visiting Roma settlements throughout Serbia. A survey was carried out last year on the implementation of the Roma and Roma Social Integration Strategy in 20 units of local self-government. Based on this survey, a special report by the Citizens' Protectors on the implementation of the Roma and Roma Social Inclusion Strategy has been prepared with recommendations. Correct and continuous co-operation with national councils of national minorities in 2019 proved to be very fruitful at the time of the emergency this year, when we organised concrete food assistance and hygiene material assistance, which was delivered to residents of informal Roma settlements. I'm glad the MPs are listening to me, because these are questions that are of interest to all of us. (Alexander Martinovic: This is not the Eighth Congress. Excuse me? (Alexandar Martinovic: You read me a report as if we were at the Eighth Congress of the Communist Union. I'm really sorry, but we did a lot of work in 2019. (Alexander Martinovic: I know, but you can see there are no MPs.) It's all in the material. We killed the session. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2110	Mr. Pasalic, you don't have to address the MPs directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2111	Here, I'll finish. I'll see to it that I'm as short as I can with the rest of this as possible. With regard to the position of national minorities, the Guardian of Citizens has promoted an idea with national councils, which I think will be supported by satisfaction, which is, I don't know what form it would be founded in, I'm going to use now a colloquial term museum, which is that Serbian citizens should be familiar with how many members of the national minorities contributed to the development of the Serbian state, I deliberately say states, because this is not only for the period of the republic, but for the earlier periods of state planning, in all areas of life, cultural, economic, political, and even to many victories that the state of Serbia has won in the previous period. I can't help but take this opportunity to highlight the support of old and powerless people, who especially multiplied in 2020, when what happened happened. These problems are particularly expressed in rural areas, where older women living in single households are particularly difficult, most often dependent on other family members, since they do not usually have property rights on immovable and mobile property, nor income. Violence and neglect of old people are still under the radar, it's uninteresting in the media, it doesn't pay attention unless there are tragedies, and especially as older people rarely or almost never report violence from the most common members of the family, mostly children, and due to insufficient recognition of emotional, social and economic violence against the elderly. Also, one of the major issues is protecting citizens' rights in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. The protection of citizens in 2019 was not able to exercise its powers in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and the law. According to available information, and based on allegations made by citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, especially those of non-Albanian nationalities, living in enclaves, continue to be hostages of ongoing political processes and face severe violations of human rights and freedoms. I cannot ignore the question of freedom of speech and expression, which is thought to be one of the problems the state of Serbia has, one of the two largest, in negotiations with the EU. You know that two of the most frequently highlighted problems are the state of justice and the state of the media. What was very important to us, it is to prevent any arbitraryness, any personal interpretation that can have any connotation, which can be personal, political, and even economic. That's why in 2019 we started what we think is very important and we managed to bring it to an end this year and that put us in the working group for the protection of journalists, which is to gather all relevant news associations. I want to really show them clearly and publicly this time, and these are: Association of Journalists of Serbia, Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina, Association of Independent Electronic Media, Association of Media, Association of Online Media, by other associations of the Association of Local and Independent Media "Local Press", Union of Journalists of Serbia, the Grand Union of Culture and Art, "Media of Independence", Independent Union of Employees of Graphic and Issue Information Action, Cinematography of Serbia. The aim of this platform, which has been developed to the end, is to record the pressures on media workers in a unique way, and to contribute to the improvement of their position, thus improving freedom of expression, based on the data that would have been collected. As you know and as you are aware, at this point it is currently being done in solving or simply finding a solution to this problem. I am very glad that the U.S. citizen's institution has long recognized it, with a desire, I repeat, that no personal interpretation is allowed in any sense, but that all journalists, regardless of what media they have worked in, whether they are nominally considered positional or oppositional, or completely independent, are not my interpretation of giving them a connotation and giving them the essence of their activities, that they are equally protected, meaning, all of those newspapers, radios, televisions, portals. I really apologize for the length, but this is the shortest possible compared to our activities we had in 2019. Thank you very much for your patience. My colleague, my first deputy, Jelena Stojanović and I are here for all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2112	Thank you, Mr. Pasalic, for your comprehensive report. We're moving on to the next reported one, it's Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2113	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected representatives of independent regulatory bodies, I would first like to address the President of the Assembly. I don't think he's the chairman, he's carrying part of the responsibility. I think the President of the Assembly needs to have talks with the people who come here in the O.R. So now there's going to be a break, and we haven't started the discussion yet and we haven't gone further than one MP. So what would happen if the finance minister here explained the budget from page to page? We'd still be discussing the budget today. So I don't think the leaders of independent regulatory bodies are responsible either. The President of the Assembly is the host here, the one who should guide us about how we should all behave. At first, I want to thank you, unrelated to the topic, the UAE Government, the Crown Prince Muhammad bin Zadu al Nahyan for the humanitarian aid he has directed to our country, which is proof of good relations between the Republic of Serbia and the UAE, and that is something that we certainly need to support, because every kind of assistance, especially one successful and economically strong country, is necessary for us. As far as the representatives of independent regulatory bodies are concerned, today is a very important topic, and even though it is a weekend, we are discussing and discussing it, especially for us members of minority communities. As a member of the Bosniak people, I call on all my fellow Members and fellow MPs, especially representatives of minority communities to engage on these topics, especially when it comes to issues such as the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, such as the Citizens' Protector. These are topics that concern our lives, the lives of members of our people, and of all citizens and citizens. As far as DRI is concerned, it is also very important, especially for those of us who are now coming as citizens of this country from the inside, because bureaucracy is one thing and life is another. That's what I mean in the discussions of all the MPs who are coming, as they say so, from the inside, we'll see some deviations or inapplicability. So, the law needs to arrange our lives and make it more functional, but a law that is not applicable and that cannot be implemented in action should simply be changed urgently. That's why we're paid here by the citizens, but that's why you're elected, and that's why we have to make sure with one synergy that the problems that some colleagues have already talked about are not happening anymore. As for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Protector of Citizens, that is where we will overlap, except as a member of the minority community, I now speak also as a son, as a husband and as a father, because these are vulnerable groups such as our mothers, such as our wives, our sisters and our children. I think it's the meaning and the life and the politics of all of us, and who are watching us and who are in this room. I want to point out the pledge and the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality and the Protectors of Citizens and give them credit for bringing these two institutions closer to the citizens. We need to get rid of this one centralism. So what we do as the National Assembly, as the MPs, what independent regulatory bodies do, must be completely clear and transparent and to the citizens of Sandzak, Surdulice, Vrbasa and all other smaller or larger places in the Republic of Serbia, not to be the institutions of an elitist type where parliament, representatives of the Government, public enterprises or foreign embassies will know about our functioning. So, I'd like to give you a confession, especially the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality. Your commitment and arrival in Novi Pazar is something that has really made a great impression on what is being said today, especially about the lecture you gave to the students of International University. I would like to point out that a third of the country's citizens are representatives of minority communities. What's good about this assembly is that two vice presidents of the congregation come from the order of minority nations. What is not good is that after longer good practice we do not have a Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who is coming and would represent one third of citizens and citizens and that is something we must work on in the future very closely and in detail. Democracy, rule of law is something that is not a process that we can end overnight. This is a living process, and when we talk about the modern democracies of the Western world, we see the challenges they face. We have racial unrest in the United States, France, Germany, in other Western European countries. We have an increase in anti-Semitism, anti-Islamism and xenophobia, so we can say, with the existence of these institutions that we are now talking about, that this is proof of one rule of law and the fundamental commitment of Serbia to be a truly fundamentally democratic country in which all citizens and citizens will feel equal. What are the key problems when I talk about the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and when we talk about the Protector of Citizens? It's an implementation. I think that in most cases we have a good legislative framework, however, what is missing in practice is implementation. It's like when we have the official use of language and letters from minority communities, when we have education. I must point out that as a public figure, a representative of the strongest Bosniak party, I am very often invited to explain why in a particular school we are looking for official use of language and letters. It's something that guarantees the Constitution, which guarantees the law, and I don't think there's any need for us to spend any special energy on it. We simply need to get used to what is the rule of law, what is respect for the Constitution and what is the existence of diversity in this country. We also have a problem with information. I have repeatedly pointed out in these assembly debates and discussions a truly unacceptable relationship between the media public service, the Radio-Television of Serbia, which has refused in a truly unacceptable way to form a redistribution in the Bosnian language, with the reason that they question the existence of our language, which is the basis of our identity. Please, in what way do we discuss in the 21st century, talk to an institution that gives you such a truly harsh and unacceptable answer? As for the involvement of missing babies, it is indeed something to be welcomed, as well as the launch of the police control procedure. So that's proof of an independent institution and that's something I think we'll all support. What I'd like to ask the Guardian of Citizens is that we have research that says that from year to year the number falls, the percentage of cases solved. Is that true or not? In particular, Yukom was doing research. Whether it's subjective research or objective, I want to hear from you the answer. I'm glad that all of these institutions that we're talking about today are devoid of something that we would call day-to-day politics. As far as DRI is concerned, it's a very important institution and we need it. But like I said, bureaucracy is one thing and life is another. So, we now have a problem, when it comes to public procurement, that one of the bidders, for example, on winter road maintenance, regrets, in the municipality of Sjenica, Prepolje or Tutin, these are the Sanjak municipalities, and as the process of complaints and all possible legal medicines used by one of the participants in the tender comes spring. And what can a president of the municipality do in that case without making a mistake about the law? We have the same thing in some other public procurement. Desiring to meet the expectations of citizens, not to fail your budget, but to comply fully with the law. What I have a question for the DRI representative is that in the previous months there has been an audit of operating irregularities in the Municipality of Sjenica in the section relating to public procurement for 2018 and 2019, as well as expenditure on employees for 2019. The draft report of the DRI states that for the period 2018, 2019, the Municipality of Sjenica spent the opposite of the Public Procurement Act at least 262 million dinars. Also, what I have from the data is that the debt of the Municipality of Sjenica is 650 million dinars, which is about 60% of that municipality's budget. Now I'm asking you, as a state auditor, how did that debt grow so much? Who was, was the Ministry of Finance, do you, competent to monitor this situation? Now you're the president of the municipality what can you do with all that debt? As you serve all these debts, while you make reprogrammes, you will pass one term. What's the point? To prevent things, not to treat them later when we've come to a dead end. Also, your institution has been dealing with the city administration in Novi Pazar and I am interested in what you have done on this issue, because we have this statement and when it comes to irregularities in the business of the new market water pipeline, and you correct me if I am wrong, and illegal public procurement of the Centre for Social Labour in Novi Pazar. I'm interested in what you are in particular and in the case of local self-government in Sjenica and local self-government in Novi Pazar and to answer me why for seven years it hasn't been control, as far as I have the data, in the local self-government of Sjenica and when it was control in the municipality of Tutin. So, what have you done, because we have statements from some officials, locals, in the New Market that say -- no, no, it's all by law, it's nothing controversial? I'm interested in these concrete answers. I think I've made them very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2114	Thanks, buddy. The word is Selma Kučević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2115	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, we have reports on the work of the Protector of the Rights of the Citizens and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality before us today, and I will also talk about their work from the perspective of the Bosniak people. If we take into account that we do not have to be professional lawyers in order to know what the work of the Protector of the Rights of Citizens is and that the basic function of the same is derived from the name itself, the scope of the work of the public authorities and other bodies and organisations, institutions and companies entrusted with public authority shall be included. Accordingly, the National Council of Bosniaks addressed, so in July 2019, the Guardian of the Rights of Citizens, and the complaint about the decisions of the programme council mentioned by my previous speaker, which actually rejected the proposal to form a redistribution in the Bosnian language. The team organised this meeting where the chairman of the programme council initiated the rejection of the proposal, and thus the programme council went further by denying the Bosnian language, and thus entered into the denial and existence of a nation, because by rejecting an identity element such as the language, it is directly entered into denial of the existence of a nation. Since the Public Media Service has gone so far as to violate this decision that the provisions of the Constitution, as well as the laws guaranteed by the rights of members of Bosniaks, and international documents in the field of human and minority rights, especially in the area of the preservation of the specificity and use of the mother tongue and letters, as well as information in the native language, have been violated by the right to freedom of speech, then the right to inform in the mother tongue, the right to the official use of language and letters, as well as the right to preserve speciality. The National Council of Bosniaks addressed the protection of citizens' rights, expecting to take appropriate measures to prevent further damages in terms of the exercise of the rights under the act in question and violated. However, on the initiation of proceedings and proceedings under this complaint, the National Council of Bosniaks has not received any answer to this day, so the question is raised, logically by the follow-up of the events – why is there in the first place a reaction of the Protector of the Rights of Citizens when it comes to the procedure of harsh violation of the Constitution and of the laws of this country? Does the Protector of the Rights of Citizens react in the same way even when similar reasons and complaints are addressed to him by the citizens of this country when it comes to violating lower legal acts than it is the Constitution, because if this is how we act, there is a disenfranchisement of the function of the Protector of the right of citizens, because the citizens of this country become left to themselves and the will of individuals. So, while the rule of law will definitely be at the head of which we will exclusively adhere to paper theory, but not in practice? I must point out that the same on the part of the Bosniak National Council also addressed the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Therefore, in October 2019, which provided also the conclusion of the Programme Council, and by an analysis of the circumstances identified, the Trustee assessed whether the programme council violated the provisions of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination by proposing non-acceptation of a proposal to establish a regulation in the Bosnian language, as well as the denial of the Bosnian language. By estimating the domestic and international legislation governing the position of members of national minorities, the Commissioner adopted the opinion that by proposing not to accept a proposal for the establishment of a regulation in the Bosnian language, the Programme Council did not violate the provisions of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination of Discrimination, while considering the views that the Bosnian language disputed, and taking into account the Law on ratification of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, the Commissioner adopted the opinion that it was challenging the Bosnian language, as the language of the Bosniak National Minority in the conclusion of the Programme Council, that the Council violated the provisions of Articles 6 and 24. A law on regional minority languages that Serbia has accepted for the provisions of the convention to be applied in Bosnian as well. I would really like to commend the extraordinary professionalism and approach of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in this complaint, which is why the Programme Council of the public media institution of RTS has been recommended to comply with the provisions of the Law on the ratification of the European Charter on Minority and Regional Languages in the future and to inform certain persons of the recommendations made. Despite recommendations and the opinion of the Commissioners, however, RTS continues with harsh discrimination against the Bosniak people, by refusing to broadcast classes in Bosnian language in March 2020, citing and citing technical problems as a reason, but also citing that the Ministry of Education, Science, Technological Development and RTS will solve technical problems for several days, and that teaching in minority languages will receive its broadcasting terms on RTS. On these reasons of the duration of technical problems to this day, we will do something else today, but today we will definitely condemn the implementation of recommendations and opinions given by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2116	Thank you, colleague. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go. (Zoran Pasalić: I answer the word, may I answer? ) Mr. Pasalic, can we just let go of the colleague I called, and you will eventually give your answers to the MPs. Thank you. Here you go, Elvira.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2117	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents and the Presidency, representatives of independent regulatory bodies, on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I will talk about two reports, or the Committee's conclusions, and later my esteemed colleague Rosalia will talk about the third report. We have before us a 13th regular Report of the Protector of Citizens and the 10th Regular Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession process for 2020 highlights exactly the importance of the Citizens' and Trustees for the Protection of Equality, as institutional corrections, because they, these institutions, by their own actions, and both reports we are discussing today confirm, establish principles of justice, security, honesty, the rule of law, as a standard of the work of all institutions. The European Commission's report assesses as a positive step what one of the distinguished guests spoke of just a little while ago, yes, it seems to me that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia finally held last year in 2019, for the first time, after several years, you said, in particular four years, at the plenary session, here at the plenary session, discussed reports of independent regulatory bodies. In particular, the conclusions of the parent committees. These were then reports, logically, for 2018. That makes us happy that now in time, for example, we are discussing reports for 2019. The above-mentioned Report of the European Commission really supports the work of independent and independent institutions, because they represent one of the pillars of the rule of law and mean an advocate for the idea of a valid legal order, which provides legal certainty, which is significant, and freedom of citizens. By their actions, the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for the Protection of Equality pointed out the extent to which it is important to detect, in fact, to admit that when we talk about reality, the gap between justice and freedom and the conditions that enable all of us to serve them. If a citizen, for example, is poor, ignorant or weak, so that he can use his legal rights, the freedom that that citizen has that, which these rights actually give him, unfortunately, does not mean much to him. Therefore, we believe that it is indeed the task of all these institutions to do everything to ensure that justice is available to all, especially those most sensitive, marginalised, invisible and depressed. The report by the Citizens' Protector on whom we have heard the presentation reiterates the conclusion that the achievement of economic and property rights is actually the area in which citizens have had the most difficulty in achieving their rights for many years back. From both reports, if we are talking about both the Trustee and the Citizens' Protector, we are reading the need to strengthen institutional solidarity, which would actually require the integration of all systems of protection, starting with health, social protection, to the education system and what we think is extremely important, better coordination of local and republican levels is needed. I think that's the problem many people face. It is important to work to improve, above all, the politics themselves, and policy will create a different culture of tolerance, a space for breaking prejudice, recognition and respect for diversity. The review of the two institutions' reports is important for the very institution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to strengthen the democratic consolidation process. It represents a guarantee of legal certainty and the security of citizens, and certainly we at the SVM parliamentary club believe that it contributes to strengthening confidence in this most legislative body, and it is not less important that the Republic of Serbia achieves its strategic definition, joining the EU, has to meet one of the basic political criteria, as they stress them with reports, which is precisely to provide institutions that will guarantee, stable institutions, which will guarantee democracy, the rule of law, respect and protection of human rights. In order to ensure the rule of law and the protection of human rights, the revised Action Plan for Chapter 23 states, among other things, what the esteemed Citizens' Protector has just talked about, the necessity of amending and supplementing exactly the Law on the Protector of Citizens in order to strengthen the independence of this institution and improve the efficiency of its work, as well as changes to not less important, changes and additions to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, precisely in order to fully comply with the legal assets of the EU. Of course, the regular consideration of the citizens' protection reports by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which we are currently doing, and the regular report by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the findings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia established after considering these reports by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is something that would be understood. The report of these two independent and independent institutions shows that their actions are constantly seeking balance between the promotion of good administration and promotion and the protection of human rights of those most vulnerable categories of society. In the publication - Analysis of the practices of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality under complaints for discrimination based on nationality, it is stated that if we talk about complaints filed by the Trustee on the basis of nationality and ethical origin, they were, in 2014, therefore, six years ago, at the top of the list, according to protected personal properties, but since then declines, exactly the drop in their number, so that in fact, in the last 2019 report on this discrimination on the basis of nationality, everything is spoken of as an eighth basis based on the frequency of guidance. How should we consider these conclusions? In SVM and for our parliamentary group, if I may say so, we view it perhaps partly as our result, the simplest thing would be to understand this trend, at least in one part, as a result of the specific work we did here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if we speak, from 2014 to today. In 2014, we signed a coalition agreement with the SNS for the first time, and in this period since 2014, to date, our MPs and our parliamentary group have submitted numerous amendments that have been adopted on various laws, which have actually ensured the improvement of the most normative framework and the development of effective mechanisms for the protection of the rights and freedoms of members of the national minorities. Both reports of these independent regulatory bodies detect the poor as one of the three most discriminated social categories, and exactly the area of work and employment is at the top of the number of complaints filed. A report by the Citizens' Protector states that women, older women, women in the older age of population, as in the population of pensioners, are at a significantly higher risk of poverty than men, that in fact this birth gap, that it is the largest in the person category than they say, plus 55, aged 55 to 64. If we focus on the area of fundamental rights and return to the European Commission's Report, it reiterates the multiannual assessment that a legal institutional framework for respect for fundamental rights has been established in the Republic of Serbia, but that it is necessary to ensure their consistent and effective implementation. It is necessary to strengthen human rights institutions and guarantee their independence and, despite the legal obligation, this is extremely important for us, that the ethnic composition of the population must be taken into account. National minorities, unfortunately, are under-represented in the public administration. On the threshold of the recommendation mentioned in the European Commission's report there are also recommendations from the esteemed Commissioner, Commissioners for the Protection of Equality and among other things in Recommendation No 23. The trustee states that all measures need to be taken to ensure that the composition of state authorities, local self-government authorities and other public authorities correspond to the national composition of the population in their territory. There is a need to increase the number of employed members of national minorities, their education and training for doing business, and it is necessary to take measures to manage national, ethnic, religious, language and other diversity, which we certainly support. Let me go back to the Ombudsman again. Simeon is an institution that parliament has, I think, mentioned in its opening address the Swedish or so-called parliament. "Rictag", which was founded in 1809 in order to control the executive authority. Just a word. The ombudsman in the Swedish language stands for a person who, they say, in a literal translation – hears for the people. We believe that both the reports we are discussing confirm that both the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for the Protection of Equality have a hearing for the people and for the needs of vulnerable groups, but also that there are other shortcomings that I will talk about in the remainder of the parliamentary group's time. For example, we heard about this earlier, the Financial Support Act with children is still not in line with anti-discrimination regulations. We believe that the multiple harmfulness of a provision that puts women farmers in an unequal position, which is extremely important for us because, in order to achieve maternity leave and leave for child care care, it is necessary to have a 24-month insurance or two-year-old insurance, unlike the others provided on another basis, they require 18 months or a year or a half, as well as the provisions that we have heard earlier, which have violated the right of parents because they have been denied the right to make a profit in the absence due to special child care for the child, which, when the right to help and care of another person has already been achieved. We are aware that, at the initiative of various NGOs and the Commissioner himself in 2018, the Constitutional Court launched a procedure for assessing the constitutionality and legality of certain provisions of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, and the Commissioner has indeed addressed the initiative for the amendments mentioned, which we certainly welcome, and I hope this issue will be resolved in the near future. An important part of the SVM programme is dedicated to the reform of PIO or those pension-inhabited insurance for farmers. I would therefore raise another question that we had just heard from the ombudsman, that the Citizens' Protector and during this last reporting period received a number of complaints from citizens that indicated that a certain number of persons were simply on the basis of the fact that they were actually members of the household of a person who owned the agricultural land for many years were unfoundedly in charge of contributions to the PIO, and that many of them were simply not even informed, they were not aware of their obligations. This is due to the fact that the applicable Law on PIO has not adequately defined the concept of insurance companies, there are no criteria for obtaining the end of the characteristics of insurance undertakings, there is no clear procedure for applying to insurance, establishing the property of insurance undertakings, checking out from insurance, establishing the end of insurance properties, as well as the rest of the characteristics of insurance undertakings and a number of other issues that are of great importance for achieving the rights of farmers to PIO. In order to effectively overcome the consequences of the disappearance, we would define this as incomplete legal solutions, and indeed in order to ensure the social security of this age category, the Citizens' Protector has just proposed to the Ministry of Labour, Boring and Social Issues, has given the opinion that it is in the interest of citizens to amend and supplement the Law on PIO which would define, on the basis of real parameters, all relevant issues related to the position of this category, in a way that reduces space for free interpretation of certain provisions, the discretionary decision of the competent fund which we of SVM certainly support. I'm going to set out maybe another important topic, now more for Branko and for all of us women, because I think the fact that if someone is different shouldn't be the basis or the reason for discrimination. The fact that she's a woman can't be a reason to be a victim of violence. In Serbia, as it is known, even though this is not adequate facts since we all inform ourselves mostly from the media, I would not now open a debate on how good media information is and how sensational it is, but according to the data we own in 2019 in Serbia, 28 women were victims of violence. In the previous 2018, just according to that data, 30 women were killed and we just heard about it. We fully agree that it is often forgotten that the victims of domestic violence are not only women but also their children and who really need support. Statistics say that only in last 2019 because of the femicidal killings of women in Serbia, 40 children were left without their mothers. Although indeed the authorities in the last few years have already acted on recommendations from the Commissioners and the Citizens' Protectors, the fact is that there are still a number of problems in practice individual and systemic discounts such as inadequate co-operation of the authorities responsible for combating domestic violence, inadequate risk assessments, implementation of measures that do not meet the identified and assessed risks, lack of information, lack of recognition of violence still, not taking action to which the authorities are required, etc. Children in these families, so children present in domestic violence are still not in practice treated as victims of violence, thus not taking the measures prescribed for the protection of victims. The act of violence against women is not a private act. By silence and concealment, violence is normalized. Certainly, an important contribution to gender equality, equality of women and men in our country would be finally the adoption of a new law on gender equality. We hope this assembly will do so soon. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality on a special report on labour market discrimination estimated that the socio-economic status of women is significantly worse than men. No one likes silence after calling for help it was actually a moto campaign called "signing" which it initiates, now long ago in 2013, when we launched ratification of the signing of the so-called ". Istanbul conventions, the Council of Europe conventions to prevent violence against women and domestic violence. I am personally pleased that Serbia was in the first ten or seven countries to do so, but there is still work to do, is still member states of the Council of Europe that do not understand this topic. But like I said, no one likes silence after a distress call. Therefore, the report of the Citizens' Protectors and the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality does not deserve silence, but systematic and continuous support by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in particular through the regular examination of these reports of the implementation of recommendations that these reports and the call of the executive bodies are indeed to account. The Members of the SVM are looking forward to this debate. We certainly support your recommendations. Of course, we will not particularly vote in the report, and we cannot, but rather, on the conclusions of adequate parent committees that have been adopted on the basis of these reports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2118	I'm hanging out with my colleague Kovac. Since it's 14 hours and five minutes, I'm setting a regular break in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes. Thank you. For the sake of clear information, after the break we have three more authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups and we are moving on to the list of speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2119	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2120	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, distinguished guests, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, discussed the report of the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have proposed conclusions on these two reports, which include some recommendations for improving the situation in these areas. Although the procedures before these authorities end with a recommendation or an opinion, the fact is, above all, that the authorities of the administration to which the recommendations are given are treated at the highest percentage. This is very important. The Citizens' Protector Report shows that the percentage of total recommendations accepted is 97.14%. The Commissioner's report also states that there is an apparent increase in the management of recommendations and that in the past and in the past and in all previous years. The percentage when it comes to recommendations addressed to public authorities is also over 90%. Although the advisory body, although it only makes recommendations, although they do not have a mechanism to see what they see is wrong, these organs have shown high efficiency and that is something I want to point out and that is something that indicates that there is a lot of work in this country and is trying in every way to support the rights of all people, but also minority members who live here. As a society that seeks to further improve human rights, tolerance and respect for diversity, it is important that we have established these independent state bodies. I've talked a little bit today about this supervisory role and the importance of the entire public in modern democracies. However, there is a need to further strengthen their capacities and competencies. We have made this commitment through the Action Plan for Chapter 23 – Justice and Rights and Fundamental Rights in the EU accession process. What this specifically means is we can see from the reports themselves, because both the Ombudsman and the Trustee have pointed out the need to amend and supplement the existing legislative frameworks that regulate their work. At the Committee session, we had the opportunity to hear that one of the priorities of this ministry would be to amend and supplement the Anti-discrimination Act. Also, it cited strategies as a priority activity. The report by independent state authorities should give us insight into the state of human rights in different areas. They also need to offer us guidance on how to improve the legislative framework. We often say that in certain areas of human rights we must work to improve our consciousness, to fight stereotypes and prejudices. For example, when it comes to a ban on discrimination, sometimes we are not even aware that some behavior or inaction is discrimination, because it can be covered up or indirectly. Therefore, very important activities by the Commissioner are aimed at training on the application of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. The report shows that police officers, representatives of local self-government, employers, advisors of the National Employment Service, tourist workers, employees at local level, etc. were included in training in the previous year. Human rights training and education is also one of the more important roles of independent state bodies. Unfortunately, discrimination is sometimes very open and comes out of the framework of discrimination and moves into what we call hate speech and even violence. That is why it is very important for these institutions to be as strong as possible, to reach every citizen. In this regard, I particularly support the establishment of local offices of independent bodies, such as the Office of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, e.g. in New Market. It is also an important initiative by the Protectors to hold quarterly meetings with national minority councils in their seats and that is something I will commend. Indeed one quality activity, direct contact with national councils, conversations and attempts to solve the problems they have in this daily walk by achieving their natural rights in this country. It's very good, Mr. Pasalic, your proposal, and I agree with you, it's not an important name, but promoting what national cultures have given this climate and all that is positive, and there's a lot of it, what members of these national minorities have done for this country is something that we need is... In the best possible way. I am many times and it is the practical and policy of the Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic to highlight those points that bind the two nations, I mean the Bosniaks and Serbs, but all the peoples in this territory of our country, that is our political goal, but we think there is much to be said positively. So here I talked a lot and mentioned some names about the importance of Bosniaks in defending Belgrade and Serbia from the Austro-Hungarian invention in World War I, so I mentioned here the famous name Shems Mijadovic, captain and other greats who left their lives. You know that very often it is said that this monument is dedicated to "The Unknown Hero" by one of the representatives of the Bosniak people who defended this city and this country. There is much in culture, in literature in the entire history of people who were truly noble and united all the peoples in the Balkans, and that is one good and quality initiative. I want to say that both independent state authorities have made progress in certain areas, but also point to problems and challenges. If we look at the Report of the Protector of Citizens, we will see that it contains recommendations from vulnerable groups, such as women victims of domestic violence, in partner relations, children, persons with disabilities, elderly people, members of national minorities, above all Roma, members of LGBT, refugees and migrants. The protection of citizens finds that citizens most often addressed them for violations of economic and property rights, violations of principles and principles of good administration, socio-cultural rights, etc. As regards the report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the most complaints have been made in the past year because of discrimination on the basis of disability, on the basis of half, etc. The Committee on Human and Minority Rights, when considering these reports and after hearing the most important findings and recommendations made by Mrs Jankovic and Mr Pasalic, established the conclusions we proposed to the National Assembly for adoption. In these conclusions that are before you today, we wanted to point out the most important issues about the categories of our citizens who have the most problems in achieving the right to equality and other human rights in the most important areas of social relations in which these problems arise. In the proposal for the Committee's conclusion on the Citizens' Protector's report, we started with the most sensitive category, and I'm sure that's what we all agree on, and that's what children are. We have pointed out the problems children of the Roma minority face first of all, which are children's early marriages, improving the situation of children with developmental disturbances and sick children. Also, our recommendations include improving the system of services and support services for people with disabilities and older people, then improving the position of national minorities, especially Roma. We pointed out the need for greater efficiency of birth equality mechanisms in local self-governments, etc. When it comes to the report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, we have also come from what is today a major problem, which, due to the Kovid 19 pandemic, is obviously further increased, which is violence against women in the family, partner relations. In recent weeks, unfortunately, we have witnessed more frequent violence that has resulted in fatal outcomes. This time calls on the Protector and the Trustee and all of us together to pay special attention to this issue in the coming period. The need was found by the Citizens' Protector himself in a special report on the activities of the Citizens' Protector during the state of emergency. Furthermore, our recommendations concern strengthening the position of disabled people. We also drew attention to the problem of leaving young people from the country and the need to introduce new measures for active employment policy. It is also important to work on improving the situation of older people, especially in non-accessible areas. I believe that today's debate in the National Assembly will show the need and willingness for all state authorities, including the National Assembly and its working bodies to work as hard as possible, more thoroughly, as responsible for improving human rights and freedoms. The various crises affecting the world of human rights are under growing challenges resulting in violations of human rights, intolerance and discrimination. That is why we need to be as ready as possible in our response to discrimination and human rights violations. Our important allies in this struggle are independent state bodies. I therefore hope that the National Assembly will adopt proposals for the conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality to consider the report of the Protector and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. That is what I and as a promoter wanted to say, given that we are as two committees proposing these recommendations, and in the first part I said what we Social Democrats think and that in every way we are trying to support these institutions because we think that they are of great importance for our path to the EU, but also for one better life that we want for all citizens of Serbia, and for God and for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2121	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, with apologies for being away from 11 to 14 hours. I had official duties outside the building, so I didn't say it at first, but our goal is based on our agreement that we had around 7:00 tonight to be a vote. Given all this, I probably missed out on saying at first that everyone has that in mind when it comes to the length of their exposure. Although it is not intended for the Rules of Procedure to be limited, I ask them anyway, and given that I also ask Commissioner Branko to say something, now it does not turn out that she did not report the work, that it may be shorter than she planned, because we have other representatives of the parliamentary groups and then there are MPs. I think it's very important that you hear what the MPs think about all this and I think it's the essence of this session. Here's my word to Branko Jankovic, although we recently had a conversation with her about her work, since we recently chose her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2122	Dear President of the National Assembly and the honourable MPs and MPs, it is good to correct the misunderstanding from the beginning, so that it does not turn out that I am the only one who has not presented the report on the work, because we did not understand at first that the proposals were first authorised by the presidents of the parent committees. But good and misunderstandings are necessary, and I am fully in agreement with you, President, that the voice of the people is the most important and that is why we are here. I will present the shortest in ten minutes, because the report has been delivered to you in good time and you have everything in it, and if you want to ask me something, you will ask, but it is very important that the continuity of the review of the report of independent institutions continues. A moment ago, Mrs Elvira Kovac said that this is also important in the context of the political criteria for us as a country, EU candidate, so it should also be established in the next European Commission report. As I said, you have before you the ninth regular report by the Trustees for the year 2019, which we are considering in these extremely difficult circumstances, which we could not assume, which concerns, above all, the preservation of health and of our families and in which we are all this year turned to the efforts to alleviate the pandemic and the consequences it causes, and therefore I know that today many other topics are more important to all of us. At the beginning you were also presented a brief report on labour market discrimination, because this is the new assembly meeting, so we presented the main findings from 2019 for the previous ten years. During 2019, the Commissioner acted in 1,479 cases, of which 711 complaints were filed, and in addition to the opinion of complaints in individual cases, the Commissioner gave 686 recommendations for achieving equality, 16 initiatives for amending the rules, 31 opinions on draft laws and other general acts. Six criminal charges have been filed and three requests to initiate a misdemeanour proceedings. In one case, a standstill procedure was proposed, an action was filed to protect against discrimination, etc. A strategic lawsuit and one motion to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality. So 23 public warnings and 34 press releases were given. The complaints to the Commissioner are certainly one of the indicators of the presence of discrimination and the degree of respect for the principles of equality in society, but not the only one. The state of play of discrimination in society is influenced by other factors, including social and cultural context, the attitude of society to discrimination, the civil awareness of the necessity and importance of compliance with the rules, the willingness to report its infringement, the degree of tolerance towards diversity, trust in the work of institutions, the knowledge of the rules, etc. As the chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, Mr Bacevic said in his statement, the most complaints this year were brought about discrimination based on disability, slightly more than 16% of the total number of complaints. For years, this basis has been at the top of the number of complaints filed, and we are particularly dissuading the opinion we have given to RIK, to take the necessary measures out of its jurisdiction in order to provide accessible polling stations, communications and information, in order to enable all persons with disabilities to participate independently and evenly in the elections. I think that this year has resulted in one significant progress and that we have improved their approach to polling stations, which should indeed be welcomed. Also, key problems include the area of employment, when we talk about people with disabilities, but also the provision of adequate services in the required scope to enable their independent life in the least restrictive environment. It is not a rare practice to initiate a procedure for the full depravity of business capacity or to extend the validity of parental law, which is why our applicable regulations should be brought into line with Article 12. Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I remind you, we are also one of the first countries to ratify this Convention. In second place there is a gender with over 13% of the total number of complaints filed. The trustee was mainly addressed by women for unequal treatment on the labour market during pregnancy and after returning from maternity leave and from absence for the care of the child, which was the decisive reason for the launch of one of the strategic litigation cases, because it was just the woman who was fired during maternity leave. We got a court ruling, first degree, which is actually in our favor, more specifically in the public interest. We also filed two criminal charges on this basis, and the majority concerned discriminatory competitions and business ads. Women are still, despite the big shift, less represented in the leading places, harder to advance at work and on average earn lower earnings than men. It is particularly difficult to position certain categories of women, especially with disabilities, Roma women, but also women from villages, older, single mothers. In practice, advertising content is also available to support patterns of behaviour based on the idea of subordination or the authority of sex, which is why the Trustee sent a recommendation to the marketing agencies to promote diversity and affirmative media represent both genders. The following is a health condition, 12% of complaints. The health situation has been one of the five most common grounds listed in the complaints over the past four years. For this basis, discrimination is observed in combination with other personal properties, disability, age, property, genetic personality, etc. Our practice confirms that it is necessary to improve the situation of persons living with HIV, but also the need to improve palitative care in order to improve the quality of life and patients, to preserve their dignity in the last days. I think this is important to all of us. In fourth place, the number of complaints filed is about 10% of the total. There is also a combination of several personal properties, especially disability, etc. With this personal quality, I would mention the need to improve all kinds of support for children, especially children with disabilities and disturbances in development, inclusion, inclusion of all children in the education system, involvement of professionals and the general public in relation to all issues that apply to children living on the streets, protection of children from any kind of violence that involves child's marriage, childhood cancer, etc. People between 50 and 65 years of age most often face difficulties in the process of employment and work, and over 65 years of age, above all, with regard to the availability of healthcare and social protection services, providing care and assistance by informal carers, as well as a large number of physical, social, economic barriers, which we will talk more about next year, as the plan is for the Commissioner to submit a special report on the situation of the elderly. As a second basis of discrimination at the frequency of membership in political, trade union and other organisations, some other personal property, asylum seekers, refugees or internally displaced persons, marital family status, nationality or ethnic origin, property and sexual orientation, while the rest of the bases are listed in a significantly smaller percentage. It is important that we are increasingly addressed by union organisations, which we consider to be a special form of trust, because we know that our citizens sometimes need encouragement and that someone is behind them to file a complaint that is related to their workplace, because it is perfectly natural for people to feel fear for their existence, so trade unions and other civil society organisations are here of immeasurable importance. When it comes to property status, I would like to ask you MPs and MPs specifically, so it's about the poorest citizens. I'm sure they're much more discriminated against, but they need support to file a complaint and that you're often, because of your work, in an opportunity to find out more, to be with them. We ask you to be supportive and to be allies that these citizens of ours who are not united in the civil sector or that there are no larger or associated organizations behind them that we are their support and help, because I think we are allies in this field. When it comes to social relations, complaints in the field of labour and employment are most often filed with almost a third of the complaints lodged, which is why we have submitted a special report. It follows the procedure before the public authorities of about 20% of complaints filed, followed by the area of education and professional training, the provision of public services or the use of facilities and surfaces, social and health care, etc. The largest number received, as well as previous years, from the Belgrade region, is more than 36, followed by Shumadi and Western Serbia, southern and eastern Serbia, the Vojvodina region, and then KIM. So somewhere Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma is right that we need to be even more present, no matter what we have visited Serbia along and across, that this is done continuously, which we will continue to do. There is no particularly significant difference with regard to the number of complaints lodged on the basis of gender. Men are more, 2% more than women can handle, more talk, which, of course, is not a big difference. Mr. Bačevac, of course, said that the high percentage of the trustee's recommendations, which is somewhere between 80% and 90% of the year, is not going to bother you now with percentages, poor that is not crucial now, it is important to continue this good practice of conduct and in the next part of the report. We have presented to you our co-operation with the ECVINET, with the European network of institutions, where our institution does not lag behind at all, respects all European standards and our opinions are particularly valued within this network, but, of course, our regional and any other co-operation. A special segment related to co-operation with local self-governments, which is also defacto, is of the utmost importance. Finally, we have given a review of the media report, which I would point out to further, of course, in the media, that you have all witnessed here, in the extreme case, already mentioned that this speech continues to characterise, hate speech, sensationalism, discriminatory attitudes, offensive reporting, especially about women, especially politicians and such attitudes are something that is a practice that needs to be stopped, and on the other hand, the greater interest of the media in the subject of human rights is noticeable. Finally, of course, follows the Report under the Law on free access to information of public importance. A fellow present here knows that we have not had any reminders, that even commended, we have received recognition from the institution for the contribution of the right to the public to know in the end, of course, what is important, the review of the implementation of the budget that has been continued in full agreement with the financial plan, and finally, the statistical presentation. I will not read all 29 recommendations because of what the Committee president has already done, because it would be a waste of your valuable time, among other things, Mrs Elvira Kovac listed the one mentioned several times here, that we have just said that measures have to be taken to meet the composition of the public authorities in their territory and the management measures in national, ethical, religious, linguistic and other diversity, which we have recently had, and a very clear political message from the President of the Republic, which has also asked the state authorities to take care of this and I think it is important that Serbia continuously sends a message that the differences and this number of national minorities are our great wealth. All those recommendations that Mr. Bačevac has made regarding improving the quality of life of all our citizens, especially the reduction of poverty and all those relating to the labour market, therefore, giving young people a better chance and keeping them in the country of measures that will allow better coordination of family and business life than flexible working time and so on, I will not hold you back, I tell you, there are 29 of them. We follow their fulfillment, for you will ask for every one of those who are interested in you. In the end, as you could see from the data that I presented, in the coming period before us are different challenges that society needs to overcome together. By using the law prescribed powers, the Trustee is as the competent state institution for the protection of the right to equality, which is the basis of every democratic society and condition of the exercise of all other rights, we continue our work to protect discrimination. We believe that a dedicated and strong national institution for equality that does its job, despite the sensitivity of this issue and without calculating who, when and how it protects, of course, with the support of a strong National Assembly, respect and co-operation is certainly the best way towards equality of all citizens and citizens of our country. As a central state institution, the trustee, which protects this human right to equality in the foundations of every democratic society, will continue our mission to protect each individual and all of our citizens. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2123	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2124	I thank you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable representatives of independent bodies, Mrs Jankovic, we are grateful for your comprehensive presentation, but we are well aware of it. If we were not well-known, we would certainly not have received support for re-election at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I hope the president doesn't warn me at the time, because somehow whenever it comes to me, then we're kind of cutting back on time. I've got 20 minutes now, so I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2125	I've been thinking about it, but come on now.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2126	So, it's a pleasure to talk to the representatives of independent bodies, especially after the talks we had before a certain period of time, and here, I'll say why. So we had the opportunity here in the Assembly to speak specifically to the representatives of the Fiscal Council, and then a negative campaign took place at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on MPs, as MPs pressured independent bodies, as MPs against the Fiscal Council to present in the most negative context the work of this Parliament. It is only one in a number of continuous attempts to minimise and reduce parliament's work and to present media work in the most negative way. No, we conducted an open dialogue, an open debate, there were certain disagreements, but during that debate we said that this kind of debate could be very useful. Of course, we've pointed out that we don't want to put pressure on any independent bodies at any point. On the contrary, we know what the role of the Messengers is, to strengthen and strengthen the work of independent bodies to obey the law, but we must know whose responsibility is, what is the responsibility of independent bodies, what is the responsibility of our messengers. You have to admit, our responsibility is somewhat greater, with all due respect, because we were elected by citizens and we answer to the citizens. It happens very often that independent bodies have the opposite views of MPs, of the ruling coalition's views and it is absolutely not controversial, we do not question it. I'm saying, we don't put any pressure on each other, but we want to discuss it, we want to talk about it, because if it were different, if independent bodies always had the same attitude with representatives of the ruling coalition or with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then we could say, let's say, that the question of why are independent bodies? So, I think it's a debate like this, that a conversation like this is very useful. It is also useful for you as representatives of independent bodies, it is also useful for us MPs who can ask questions, and it is also useful for the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens should be familiar with what independent bodies do. During today's debate, in particular, Mr Markovic spoke as a man who has been leading a long period of time a successful local self-government and has asked very practical questions and asked a representative of the State Auditing Institution for answers. He got the answer and I don't think there's anything wrong with it. On the other hand, he also asked the Guardian of Citizens. It is my pleasure that we have a Protector of citizens who are not concerned with politics, but respects the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because if we return to the period behind us, we have had the Protector of Citizens, although we have always pointed out that the statements are political, which was least respected by the National Assembly and who least respected the MPs of the National Assembly. He didn't respect them even enough to come to the Committee meeting and answer the questions of the MPs, let alone file a report. Do you know when he showed up at the National Assembly? When the presidential election campaign started and he held a press conference in the National Assembly as a presidential candidate. So, we don't mind, we also told the representatives of the Fiscal Council. If they are determined to deal with politics, just let them leave the comfortable chairs and get out with the political agenda and let them participate in the elections and then we are fully equal. So, all the other kind of debate, of course, comes into question. We're grateful you're here today. Of course we will support as the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club your reports and that is confirmation that we respect the work of independent bodies. We have certain suggestions that I will point to during the debate. Of course, today we have four independent bodies – the State Auditing Institution, the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data and the Trustee for Equality. Therefore, to remind the independent state authorities and regulatory bodies are one form of ousting the former powers of certain national authorities, i.e. the ministries of independent authorities and regulatory bodies, which is the European model of the reduction of competence primarily in the pillar of the executive authority, which has been overregulated and overloaded by a number of competences. I can't agree that independent bodies are the fourth branch of government. There are three branches of government in Serbia, and independent bodies have their own responsibility, and everyone in this sense should do their job and government, and we who are MPs and independent bodies. Today we can say that we have significant experience in the work of independent state authorities and bodies, especially in the work of regulators. About a number of regulatory bodies, as I said, we had the opportunity to discuss certain suggestions and proposals very well-intentioned, non-critical, very constructive, very democratic debate, democratic confrontation of opinions. We didn't agree on some things, but it doesn't change anything. We're here to talk, in the interest of citizens above all, in the public interest. What is unique for them is that they are chosen by the National Assembly and fit the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for their work. The most direct form of control of their work is achieved by considering annual reports on their work. That is why today we are considering reports of these independent bodies for 2019. First of all, it is very short on the State Audit Institute as an independent top audit institution dealing with sound and legal management of finance by all direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources. The state audit institution is helping the Republic of Serbia to manage and adequately use all its resources, primarily financial resources. In 15 years of its existence and work, the state audit institution has developed and improved, I must admit, its role as auditor, which shows obvious progress in the way the budget is spent at all levels of government and in the largest number of direct and indirect users of public funds. Today, all users know that their management of public funds will be controlled by the State Auditing Institution, whether it is the budgets of ministries, public enterprises at the republican level or by public enterprises at the local level. At the same time, in addition to the control function, the State Auditing Institution has its own mission, which is to develop awareness of the need for transparent management of public funds, which is also of paramount importance and importance. The State Auditing Institution also plays a kind of preventive role, as it also provides users with prior instructions on how to manage public funds and points to failures. Of course, when revising the spending of funds on drastic infringement cases, the DRI is obliged to take legal measures towards irresponsible budget users. Today we are discussing the report DRI for 2019. We can be satisfied with the effect, I speak on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group, when it comes to the work of this independent institution, whose work is responsible and dynamic, which confirms the data presented in this annual report. The report covers four parts – revision of financial reports, revision of business regularity, audit of financial reports and regularity of business and revision of the purpose of the business of the users of public funds. I won't talk about the data, respecting that other colleagues should talk. Here, it's my time savings as president of the parliamentary group, Your Honor. They'll talk about it, you spoke in the opening statement, there's no need to repeat, the results you've achieved, we fully support them. So, not to deal with numbers, the conclusion that is imposed is that the DRI is responsible for doing its job, protecting the legality of spending public funds on all users, and it could also be said that the DRI is a kind of guardian of the legal management of budget funds, because it also contributes both to the transparent and responsible behaviour of the public sector and to empowering their internal audit services. For these reasons, the DRI Report for the previous year should be commended and we want to publicly commend it, accept and give them the green light to continue to be responsible for all public funds users, without exception. So there are no exceptions to any public funds user being involved. When it comes to the Citizens' Protector, the Citizens' Protector is an independent control institution, that is, an independent body that has existed in Serbia's legal order since 2005, when the Law on the Protector of Citizens was passed. By adopting the Constitution in 2006, it becomes a constitutional category, so that it has guaranteed constitutional independence and does not belong to any of the three branches of government. I repeat, none of the three branches of government, so let's not form a fourth, even if it's theoretical, branch of government. We completely disagree. Often, citizens' protectors, as well as other independent authorities, are called the fourth branch of government. The protection of citizens protects citizens from the illegal, irregular and inefficient conduct of administrations and other parts of public authorities that have administrative powers and which citizens exercise their rights against. We were just talking in the National Assembly about the public administration sector, about the importance of its promotion, its professionalization, we talked about modernisation, we talked about the efficiency of public administration. Once we've completely built such a administrative system, it'll probably be less work for the Guardian of Citizens. But for the citizens, no vacuum must be an obstacle to the exercise of rights. We are witnessing that on a global scale since the end of the last century, more and more attention has been paid to the development of human rights and their protection, so that, apart from the classical state mechanisms, which are often rigid and bureaucratic, a large number of countries have established the Manchester Institute, i.e. the Protector of Citizens as an additional mechanism of protection. In this respect, Serbia is moving forward with the world. Speaking of the State Protector Report for 2019, I would like to call in the work of this body a single turning point, because by choosing Mr Pasalic as Protector of Citizens, I will certainly say, that is my personal opinion, but also the opinion of the SPS Group, a new quality in the work of this independent body. I personally had the opportunity and the honour to co-operate with Mr Pasalic, for my personal satisfaction, and I hope for the mutual, participation in the international activities of this body, it was a series of meetings with ombudsmen from several countries, and I can say that his contribution to the international positioning of the Serbian protector is valuable and the international aspect of work is improved. It's in the report and it's being recognized. The application of other countries' experiences is an important aspect of the work of promotions, this is recognised in the Report, and the application of other countries' experiences is an important experience, and I would especially like to thank Mr Pasalić, who is fully committed to processing and improving work, and thus, faster and more efficient law enforcement, which is the legal framework of the work of this body, which we can always say, works between two fires – between citizens on the one hand and between the state, on the other hand, and the spectrum of action reaches every area of life. We can see from the 2019 Report that around 11,000 citizens have been approached by the Protector, and more than 3,200 charges have been brought in which citizens pointed to violations of their rights. The most complaints were about violations of human rights in the economic and immovin area, social and cultural goods and in the area of administration. So we can conclude that it is an independent body, which operates in a very sensitive and complex area of social life, which is civil, human and minority rights, with a significant social mission, which is to improve the public service sector in all segments of society, which should facilitate our citizens' rights and restore trust in the rights of the state. Mr. Pasalic, we are very pleased with your work, but I also want to support Mr. Markovic's suggestion from the beginning of today's session, when he said that in some way the Citizens' Protector must react to the opposition's daily attacks, but I would not call them opposition, let's not politicize this, individuals from so-called. opposition to the institutions of the system, to the president of Serbia, to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was absolutely right when he said. We spoke here in the Republic Parliament a few days ago about the code of ethics. He will regulate the rules of the conduct of the messengers of the people in the vulnerabilities and beyond the spoils, for we are also the Messengers of the people. But it takes an ethical code, a political code of ethics, so how and how to protect daily attacks on both the president of the state and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on us MPs, because we are daily exposed to one negative campaign. It's not about us being exposed. We decided to do politics and we did politics, so we didn't ask our children if we were going to do politics or not. They can bring all the feces to us, they can knock a bucket of feces at us, but don't, there must be one threshold of tolerance and they can't touch the families. They can't touch their families. And in that context, it must react to the Protector of the Citizens. And that's what we expect of you in the next period of time. As for the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection, I have to be a little bit of a patriot local, as someone from Valev can do badly, it's impossible. Therefore, this independent state body, which has been in existence for more than 15 years in our legal system, has significant powers in terms of improving the availability of data of public importance, as well as in the area of protection of personal data, which is a part of the Commissioner's report ten years ago, and since 2018, this also stands in the name of this authority. The experience and practice of the Commissioners are very valuable for improving general transparency in the work of all state authorities, as the law requires the obligation of the public authorities to allow access to information of public interest, and to deal legally with personality data in the procedures of the exercise of the rights of individuals, groups and legal persons. This body contributes to the democratisation of society, strengthening public authority's responsibilities towards citizens, and I would particularly point out that the Commissioner's report was not discussed at the National Assembly plenary session until last year, so that the continuation of this practice by putting the report on the agenda of this session is valuable for both the Parliament and the Commissioner, but above all, for the citizens, who in this way can learn about the work of this independent body and the fate of their demands and performances. In short, the report of the Commissioners in 2019 can also carry out the following assessments. The institutions of trustees for information of public importance and the protection of personal data may be considered to be the assets of the openness of our country and society to change the state of responsibility of the public authority towards the protection of citizens' rights, by enabling legal persons to access information of public importance. Next thing you know, I'm not gonna talk about numbers again, talk about the intensity of trustee activity and his team. What can be seen from the report is that the right to free access to information of public importance in Serbia and in 2019 was widely used, but was still very difficult to achieve without the trustees' intervention. The users of this right were most often citizens, then associations, media representatives, authorities, policies, foreign entities, parties and their members, lawyers, economic operators, etc. The applicants most difficult to come up with information regarding the spending of public procurement and other public resources facilities, public property records. This is all contained in your report, I'm just pointing out that segment that I think is important. So, to the truth of will, a large number of cases received speak of an increasing level of trust in the institution of the Trustees and expectations of citizens and other applicants require that the work of the Trustees will also affect the more responsible work of public authorities and public administrations. Of course, this report will also have our support. Time's up, and I'm gonna end up... (President: I know you are from Valjev, but the Rules of Procedure are Rules of Procedure. ) The Rules of Procedure are Rules of Procedure. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2127	You're out of time. I thought I wouldn't have to intervene, that you learned some lessons. Let's move on. The word is Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2128	Dear Chairman, honored guests, honourable fellow Members, of course we have read all four reports. They are professionally made up, transparent, clear, logical and therefore SNS MPs will support this report in voting day. I will commend the work of the faithful and the Protector and the auditor and the trustee. Simply, you should be told – thank you. This should also be made clear -- SNS MPs support the work of independent regulatory bodies. These institutions are neither unnecessary nor disturbing. Independent supervisory bodies are relatively new and therefore, excuse me, perhaps not everyone is used to their existence. These institutions are not ideal, but they are irreplaceable and perhaps the regulatory bodies of someone are boring, tiring, but they are certainly necessary. So, first of all, I should like to pay my respects to the President of the State Auditing Institution, the State Auditor General, Mr. Dusko Pejovic. We commend your excellent report, especially the effects of the audit that you cited there and the financial effects achieved, and that you recorded the assets of 510 billion dinars. Looking closely at your detailed report, I noticed that in 2019, the City Administration of Sapca or Old Town municipalities were not controlled, and for example, it was a party for Serbia that managed the town of Sapco, and it is not based in Sapac, but in the city of Belgrade, which is interesting, but also irrelevant. In these two local self-governments during a series of previous years, at least since 2016, invasive abuses and illegal spending of funds have been observed, so I will briefly look back at it, one of the most large in the town of Šapcu. It's an abuse of state property regarding 72 apartments and your institution in 2015 was just in control of Sapco and it established the illegal use of this 72 apartment in the period since 2001, and then you gave the measure, you presented your report. However, Mayor Zelenovic did not act on him at all, so the abuse, 72 apartments were given to free party friends, relatives Petrovic and Zelenovic, and until in September the authorities in Sapac were changed, for 20 years 72 apartments were abused and you have observed it with your report, and they did not appreciate it, which is very interesting. You have just filed a criminal complaint against Zelenovic, according to your second report in 2015, for disagreements in spending budget funds, i.e. the judicial process of abuse of the official position because of the suspicion that the town of Sabac has been damaged by five million euros. Sounds amazing, but true. On this occasion, I'm going to remind myself of a series of machinations, I can't at all, just a few things, the former president of the Old Town of Marko Bastice municipality, who was also the vice president of Gilas's party. So, Bastac had been there since 2016, no, before 2016, in 2012 ordered the Old Town's "business space" not to pay taxes on the enormous property he managed. There was damage of 18m euros and that damage the city of Belgrade had to pay when it took over the "business space" in a legitimate manner. So 2.2 billion was debt. That's what the city of Belgrade paid for. So again, the budget inspection was in the community. On one occasion, it was found that "Milan Gale Muskatirović" sports-recreative centre was damaged by a million euros, because it was so long, so criminal charges were filed, so the budgetary inspection was controlled by the Stari Grad administration itself, so they found that the municipality was damaged by 80m euros, so they filed another criminal charges against Mark Bastac. I would like to pay my respects to Mr Milan Marinovic, the new Commissioner for Public Information, who has shown in this short time how a professional, a top lawyer works, and your colleague was a bad politician who has only abused the role of the trustee. The predecessor, we could simply say, came to him, for many years he abused the function of the trustee, kidnapped the whole, for many years, the institution of the Trustees and subordinated it to his political love, and at one point it was Sasa Jankovic, after Gilas, and so it continued. He is now a Jilasovite, no longer a Trustee, and therefore it is quite clear that this congregation was unable to consider the so - called report during this period. a false confidant, or biased politician. I would mention here, since I have carefully read your report, and I am very closely dealing with the political issue of abuse of rights, which is a new matter, of free access to information of public importance. This specifically applies to the users you mention, not to mention their abuses, and these are the other most numerous users of your services – the media. So our system still does not know this abuse, as our legal system does not have a waterfall legislation. It is legislation that prevents mass lawsuits aimed at poisoning the public word. For example, Dragan Gilas only this year, boasted, filed 114 mass lawsuits. It's in Anglo-Saxon law inadmissible. As we do not have this, we do not have these abuses regulated, and what are these abuses? These abuses aim to undermine the country's defence, national public security and the country's economy. How? What else are violent attacks on the dedicated industry or, say, telecommunications companies, which have been followed by enormous demands from individual media to gain insight into allegedly public information, even those most confidential and file thousands and thousands of demands... What are they for? For journalists of these media, who are soldiers of United Media, United Group, SBB, to abuse this information because they represent competition with the state's telecommunications companies or represent the interests of the Bulgarian dedicated industry. This was also discussed in part by our MP at the last session, Milenko Jovanovic, in the work concerning Telecom. Of course, I would especially honor Mrs Branko Jankovic, Commissioners for the Protection of Equality and on our behalf and with our support and as our words, simply, I will quote a very good part of your report, which is also our words. "We continue with a proactive approach, with confidence that in this way we contribute to the further construction of society on the basis of respect for human rights, tolerance and respect for diversity. We believe that this report provides an overview of how positive shifts, problems and challenges observed with regard to achieving equality and protection against discrimination, as well as possible ways to overcome them." Great. I would especially like to commend that, dear Commissioner, you found it appropriate to condemn the hate speech and discrimination, so you said, of course, that each of us saw when he was already reading the report, so I don't need to transfer it to you. It means, "In 2019, she marked the culmination of different kinds of insults, from discriminatory attitudes, to demeaning, to hate speech and threats to the media, to threats to women and children," and then you stated: "And threats were addressed to the children of the Serbian president". You listed, of course, and I said before, women. All we can think of is a lot of insults during 2018 and 2019, which was said by Sergei Trifunović at the expense of women. Of course, I pay my respects to the magistrate, Mr. Zoran Pasalic, Protector of the Citizens. I particularly point out this opening part of the excellent report: "People's rights are a language of basic human needs, and their respect and protection affect the everyday lives of citizens and citizens, especially members and members of vulnerable groups, women, children," then you listed them all. It is, of course, a great part and, of course, it is wonderful that you mention KIM there and that you point out that part and what you simply, unfortunately, but you have to realize that you still don't have the opportunity to act on that part of our country's territory, and that Serbs on KIM, especially those living in enclaves, are facing serious violations of human rights. I'm particularly glad that, as Protector, and you've been saying that today, in the human rights part of the media, you're talking about protecting children, breaking children's rights by the media. I would especially like to praise the fact that the report and Mr Pasalić and Mrs Branko Jankovic are all about child protection, the fight for children's rights, equality and the ban on child discrimination, and here I would simply say that it is not by chance that our parliamentary group is also called "Alexander Vukic – For our children". And all of this is closely related to the struggle for Serbia's demographic survival, which is why, of course, there is a minister of care for family and demographics. To say that it is great that, in real regulation, both in the reports and in the Commissioner and Protector, there are noble concepts dealing with special rights in the area of child rights, rights to respect for the best interests of children, etc. I remind you that the Constitution is in Article 64, says - Children are protected from psychological, physical, economic and any other exploitation and abuse. I especially must say, children and minors do not possess in most protection and knowledge mechanisms because they are not mature and formed personalities and it is clear that children and minors must be protected from any, including media violence, pornography and denial of traditional family values. Family, parenting, offspring, or concepts of children, father, are the mother of traditional and noble values provided by healthy society, the demographic vitality of the people who show respect for the ancestors' heritage and provide a healthy and unhindered shift of generations in Serbia. It is important that we protect children and minors and give them the opportunity to judge as mature and adult persons traditional or non-traditional family values and, as far as we can see, both the Protector and the Trustee are actively working on these issues. Also, in all reports, and this is now one general concept, one general insight, therefore, in all reports of regulatory bodies back a number of years, so in the last seven years, there has been a constant shift in human rights, with regard to the reduction of division in society, with regard to the will for dialogue shown by our majority, but not vice versa, in terms of tolerance shown by the ruling majority towards the minority, but not vice versa and division in society, we have to conclude, are reduced to the least possible measure. President Vukic simply builds bridges, not any division. Unfortunately, there is a certain aggressive minority of extremists, whose extremism of absurdity grows with Serbia's growth and progress. So it's not proof of a major division in society, it's the other way around. This is proof that the division and tensions in society are reduced to the least. We also have to say, this is one phenomenon that has been present for seven years and is increasingly present and it's saddened. SNS, officials, membership and sympathisers are exposed to organised dehumanisation, Satanization in the media. We're exposed to unculture, ridicule and humiliation. We're exposed to negative stereotypes, prejudices, discredition almost every day. We are victims of both hypocrisy and double standards, inconsistencies, and even a specific kind of racism. Those who demonize us, it's part of the opposition and the media, show primitive aggression that is depicted in an uninterrupted series of physical and verbal violence against the SNS. The best evidence, we almost forgot this example, that the reduced divisions and tensions, is that our government has completely calmed down the divisions and tensions in terms of the rights of LGBT persons with its wise and peaceable behaviour. Let's remember 10 years ago. Tadic and Gilasov's regime created conditions for civil war on the streets of Belgrade with its arrogant and arrogant behaviour on 10 October 2010. Simply put, Tadic and Gilas' regime was unable to create peace in society. Back in eight years, President Vukic created all the conditions for this peace and, of course, it is positively reflected in your reports. I'll be back in the field of the Protector and the Trustee. In addition to these principled views I was talking about, I'm going to ask some almost unnecessary questions, but let's ask them. Do the children of President Vukic have human rights? I mean, it sounds absurd, but it's absurd that we've come to wonder if a three-year-old, little Vukan Vukic, has human rights? I'll ask, do other nearby presidents of the Wolf have human rights? Does Alexander Vukic's mother have human rights? I'll ask in the end, does President Vukic have human rights? The dehumanisation of all of them is inadmissible, she's always present, she's inhumane. Their human rights have been completely disregarded, and it is excellent that Mrs. Commissioner mentions some of this in her report. Look out, the human rights of the children of the President of the Republic and of the other members of his family and himself are not only threatened by the anonymouss from social networks, these are many public figures that are also politicians. Let's say Goran Markovic, a PSG official, a famous director, is well-wished. But not every honour for what he said, he says, "The only solution in Serbia is absolute rebellion and street." He still says, "He won't hand over power without blood. He knows very well that he is only a worm who will burn in the fire." Professor Jovo Bakic, also a politician, a university professor, says: "Vucic will be tried by a revolutionary court. I'd like to chase them in the streets." He says, "Professor." Jovo Bakic: "There is revolutionary justice, the existing law is suspended, and when the disease progressed, a knife is used." That's what they said, as far as I can remember, they got up. The columnist "Today", Snezana Čongradin, told Vukic and SNS in 2018, says: "You will be judged not by independent, but by revolutionary courts". There's still a lot of these examples. You have "dvores" who, a great friend and official of Boška Obradovica, Dragan Spasic published a morbid text, he says, "You should make a list of influential SNS faces and after changing the government of the migrants settle in their houses, apartments, give them their daughters and women to rape." Plus we remember those calls by the Gilasovac to rape Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. I'll explain the mechanism for a little while now. Dehumanisation and demonization are based on the fact that those who demonize in Vucica in SNS members, SNS voters, in us they don't see people like them, or they don't think we're human at all. Demonsizers spread the prejudice that Vucic, members and supporters of the SNS, that we only formally look like human beings, but that we are not in our essence. Their play about us being satanic is dehumanized, dehumanized. This enables them to have only hostile feelings for us and that is two main contempt and hatred. Disdain for what they think we're worthless, that we're below the minimum of human value, and hate for what they think we're irrational evil beings. Otherwise, the recognition of this dehumanisation mechanism is the basis of political and media literacy. And at the end, it's unnecessary, but I'm going to say that because some of them got it off their minds, that Angelina, Angelina, Tamara, Ksenija, Milica, Danilo, Andrey, Alexander and Vukan have the same human rights as everyone else. However anyone can ignore that a three-year-old child, a little Vulcan, must be protected, must be a child. Finally, when I mention a child, here are a few verses of the great Nobel Prize, Serbia's biggest friend, Peter Hanke, "Friendly Song", you remember from the famous film "Heaven Over Berlin" – when the child was a kid walking around with his hands, he wanted the stream, the river of devastation, and this bar to be the sea. When the kid was a child, he didn't know he was a child, everything had a soul, and all the souls were like one. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2129	I'm hanging in there. We're moving on to the list of MPs. Misala Pramenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2130	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the honored guests, we have before us a set of very important reports in today's debate. I particularly point out this because it is about independent regulatory bodies that have great responsibility for the promotion and rule of law. On the other hand, there is a great responsibility on our part to the MPs who are directly elected by the citizens and we are in some way also a supervisory role in the work of these supervisory regulatory bodies. Reports are very comprehensive, very specific and ultimately with clear recommendations, which is very, very important. However, I will try to look closely at certain reports. The state audit institution is an independent body which has a major impact on the transparency of public spending, and this is very important for the state itself, but also for citizens as to whether, in fact, the way in which the dose is spent in a transparent manner is precisely the money of citizens participating in the economic strengthening process itself. In that sense, I had before today's session and a few concerns about the DRI and their actions because mostly some things are heading towards recommendations, and I was interested in what to do next - if we have a recommendation on the DRI, whether it continues to insist on meeting these recommendations, etc., so that, in some ways, I have received a response from you that if you do not follow the recommendations to follow a criminal report, which is normally good to lead to the completion of a certain process, since we know that in particular in the area of public procurement, there is a great abuse by those who are in charge of one transparent way and manage. The issue of the Guardians of Citizens, Protectors or the Trustees of Equality is somehow overlapping both the field of protection and the promotion of human rights is a very broad field and there is always work to do. As much as we've made progress, we're making progress in that domain there's always things to do again, work and speed them up again. We talked and heard a lot today about protecting the rights of the child. It is a very, very important segment and society, its success and child care are actually indicators of how responsible we are as a society. We have heard especially some characteristic and specific categories of children, children with special needs, children who unfortunately have some diseases, etc., these categories, children of Roma nationality should be paid particular attention. However, I don't know if we've asked ourselves as a society, although I'm not primarily talking about the report for 2019, but about what hit us now, almost a year ago, as we're in the pandemic, in our own state of emergency, I'm free to say, and I don't know if as a society we're aware of how this very situation has affected our children, because children have met with a number of uncertainty during this period, with a number of newspapers, perhaps with a number of fears. We're all talking about economics somewhere, social well-being, the crisis eventually, and the way to get over it, and on the other hand, we have kids who have suddenly found themselves out of school benches. They've organized online classes. Are we aware of all the challenges and difficulties these children have faced? The psychological pressure that they had during the pandemic itself and who still have? There is also the fear of a constant fear that one of the closest members of the family may get sick, etc. That's where I'd like to think about it as a society, find mechanisms, and pay even more attention to the children in this very state of emergency. On the other hand, the issue of protection of equality is the issue and the fight against any kind of discrimination and the fact is unfortunately that women in very many segments are discriminated against and on a number of different grounds – whether at work, whether in terms of achieving certain rights to social incomes and that is a segment to which we need even more attention and to strengthen the woman and somewhere the implementation of everything we talk about is sometimes much better at the top, starting from that state apparatus, one as it vertically descends to local self-government, it is precisely known to be more drastically less implemented or to a much lesser extent. So that segment needs a lot of attention. The issue of national minorities, i.e. the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, is very important. There's been a lot of work done, but there's also a lot of room for further work and advancement. I liked the idea of the Citizens' Protector who mentioned that he proposed that in some way all the achievements of national minorities in the construction of Serbia's state be presented, which is very important to break down prejudices, stereotypes of another, different as a potential danger. No, we're all just... .
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2131	Please bring the end. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2132	... We're making a real fortune. If only I could say one sentence, I apologize, what we have just mentioned, and that is the issue of the composition of state authorities, especially the authorities of local self-government in terms of national representation. In the municipalities of Sandzak, in particular, from which I come, I don't think that this structure is still satisfied. This is especially to be done, but I would further highlight the participation of women from the very ranks of national minorities in these bodies both at the local level and in the executive government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2133	I thank Professor Misali Pramenkovic. It's particularly difficult for me to interrupt when you're talking about an extremely important subject, but we need to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Your parliamentary group has six minutes at their disposal. Dear People's MPs, before we continue, it is my duty to inform you that we have just received a notice from the RTS Public Media Service that the session will be broadcast live by 17.55 p.m. when they have to terminate the transfer due to earlier commitments. The rest of the session will probably be passed on later in the evening, not live. We're moving on. Next up, she's a colleague of Jasmine Karanac's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2134	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, we are today discussing the reports of four important state independent institutions, i.e. the conclusions adopted by the committees in charge. It should be noted that independent state authorities represent a relatively young phenomenon in Serbia's political system. As such, they play an important control role and make a significant contribution to the establishment of the rule of law in democratic societies, such as Serbia. It is good that we have established a practice to discuss the reports of independent state bodies in the tide and this is about the openness and readiness of this Parliament to discuss all topics. The report on the work that independent state institutions submit to the public once a year serves to show us how much protection has been achieved in cases where human rights violations occur. These reports are indicators of how familiar citizens are, in which they can all seek protection, how encouraged they are to address independent state institutions, because it is important to note that in a situation where a large number of human rights violations for various reasons do not even reach courts, independent institutions play a key role and importance in the achievement of human rights, the most endangered citizens and groups. In their reports, an independent state institution also makes recommendations to improve the situation from its work cycle and it is up to us to consider the recommendations and to contribute together to the better work of these institutions and to the benefit of all citizens. The year after us more than ever has shown us and everywhere in the world the necessity of finding a balance between the protection of human rights and the protection of human rights, in the first part of the equality that is in the context of the pandemic that has hit us in all areas. And this exam, Serbia, I would say, is passed. I hope you'd agree to that, too. Although we are presented here with very important data and a cross-section of last year, of course, I am talking about all the independent bodies whose reports we have had the opportunity to analyze, it seems to me that the difficult and complex situation in which we as a state and society have found ourselves during this year is still saying that as a society in this field we have shown maturity, responsibility and willingness to deal with and with the greatest challenges. When we talk about protecting citizens from discrimination, we can freely say that Serbia has a good legislative framework and it is being applied, resulting from the exhaustive data presented in this report, because citizens are increasingly using the mechanism for protecting equality and increasingly addressing the Commissioners. I don't think that shows that there is more discrimination in our society, but that this independent institution is. people who are headed by Mrs Jankovic are committed to working on so that our citizens know who they can turn to to protect their right to equality. In the report of the Commissioner, the situation in the area of protection of equality is objectively seen, giving recommendations that are also a kind of indication. What exactly do I want to say? In addition to recommendations aimed at specific social groups, some refer to the adoption of strategic documents, and all of us are tasked with bringing these plans and strategies in place and starting to apply, as they relate to the most sensitive groups or to all citizens of Serbia, in addition to all of them in order to reduce poverty, improve the situation of older people, encourage rural development. Clearly, there are also a number of problems and challenges. For example, our people with disabilities face obstacles in the accessibility of objects. Women in Serbia remain discriminated over pregnancy and maternity leave, and some citizens have objections to the availability of healthcare services, especially now during the pandemic. So, there's more to work on, and I think that we as MPs and MPs can help, as well as that there's a great role in education and the media. I think that children should study tolerance and acceptance of diversity more intensively through the school system, and I also think that the media might be able to deal with the so-called. to ordinary people, through individual stories, show examples of discrimination and thus encourage citizens to seek protection. We're all on the same assignment here. There's something else I want to point out. There is a marked increase in the behaviour of the trustee's recommendations compared to all previous years, which speaks of the credibility of an institution that has been built for a decade and on which Ms. Jankovic is particularly committed to working with her team. Therefore, full support for her report and the conclusions of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, which recognised the importance of the credentials for our entire society and for all our citizens. Also, full of support and a report by the Citizens' Protectors and Commissioners for the Protection of Information against Public Importantness, which had nearly 14,000 resolved cases in 2019. As far as DRI is concerned, I can say that it is, in the right sense, independent, professional, and open to co-operation. By controlling public finances, the DRI contributes to spending citizens' money properly and transparently, thus ensuring the stability of public finances, but also ensuring better provision of services to citizens. The special value in the operation of the DRI is that it first warns and points to how it should be handled, and only then sanctions. The DRI also points to the lack of individual laws, regulations, regulations and in co-operation with the Assembly Committee on Finance proposing their improvement. The results of DRI activities are visible and are seen above all in the fact that this independent state institution oversees that citizens' funds in the budget of local communities, provinces and republics are spent rationally, legally and transparently. Allegedly, the SDPS parliamentary group will back all four independent institutions' reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2135	Thank you. Next up is Rosalia Ekres. To take the opportunity to speak to her in Hungarian. (The President, Elvira Kovac, speaks Hungarian. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2136	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, in my address, I would like to refer to the report on the work of the DRI for 2019 with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. By submitting this report to the National Assembly, the DRI has fulfilled its legal obligation to report. The SVM parliamentary group will support the conclusion proposed by the Committee on the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds for the year 2019 to consider the annual report on the work of the DRI. As is known, according to the DRI Act, which was adopted in 2005, the highest state body of audit and public funds in the Republic of Serbia, whose jurisdiction is around 11,000 users of public funds. From establishment to date, with a steady and dynamic development of personnel capacities and improvements in audit work and product, the DRI has become an independent institution a recognizable and irreplaceable factor in achieving its role to help the Republic of Serbia manage wisely using resources and contributes to maximum transparency and accountability in the public sector with reliable information. In achieving that role, good co-operation with the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, when presented to the sectoral report, is realised, proposals, i.e. initiatives to amend and supplement the rules are made. In addition to continued education and the development of human resources, it is good that audit products are constantly developed, as they deal with significant topics which can be of great help to Members of Parliament as well as to the executive authority in the decision-making process. Very significant impacts have been achieved in the audit procedures in different areas, if and as a result they have significant effects due to the savings achieved due to cost reductions or revenue increases in the public sector, as well as the improvement and transparency of financial reporting in public sector entities. It is important to stress that, in addition to the recommendations made for the corrections made following the audit carried out in 2019, which were also made by 1,970 DRI for amending important legal rules such as the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Public Property, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the Law on Public Enterprises, the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, the Law on Health Insurance and Health Protection, as well as certain sublaws and regulations which will further improve and specify the availability of public funds. Our parliamentary group, the SVM parliamentary group, makes it extremely pleased that in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina five days ago, when a report on the revision of the consolidated financial reports of the final budget of the AP Vojvodina for 2019 was presented, it pointed out that business is fully in line with the legal solutions and standards and that the AP Vojvodina was the first to receive this positive assessment. The president of the DRI Council recalled that the DRI has given two positive opinions twice on financial reports on the control of the province's budget, stressing that this is the first time that the institution has given such an assessment of a financial budget control report since the start of its work. All direct beneficiaries of the AP Vojvodina budget have been working under the law and received a positive opinion from the DRI. The role of the DRI is also of paramount importance due to the accession process of the Republic of Serbia to the establishment and improvement of the financial management and control system, internal controls, as well as compliance with the rules on the provision of guidelines and audit procedures, as this topic is covered by Chapter 32 - financial control in the accession process. In addition to the above, the DRI is included in the activities of Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights and Chapter 5 – Public Procurement. In this respect, the role of the DRI is of exceptional importance in carrying out regularity audits with a specific view to public procurement, i.e. public procurement process, selection of bidders and conclusion of contracts, as well as the realization of completed contracts, because the DRI has a staff potential that has integrity, expertise and skills so that, at the same time as carrying out the audit procedures of financial reports, it can achieve a comprehensive insight into the documentation of the procedures, as well as the realisation of public procurement and bring quality and reliable findings, as well as proposals for measures to remove identified irregularities and improve business in relation to public procurement procedures. In carrying out these significant activities, it is important to highlight the international co-operation that the DRI is accomplishing, in particular with the Supreme Audit Institutions, the European Court of Auditors, the UN Development Programme, the World Bank, the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, as well as bilateral co-operation with the countries in the environment. Due to the planned EU accession goal, it is important that audits are carried out in accordance with international audit standards and the basic principles of the supreme audit institutions. As a conclusion, the role of DRI in activities to improve legal, rational, dedicated and efficient use of public sector funds and in the responsible availability of state assets is recognizable. It is also of paramount importance to strengthen accountability and transparency in the public sector, as well as to define sustainable strategic objectives. These facts are sufficient reason for the DRI to have our full support in performing its activities in the coming period. I am convinced that, with this trend of development presented in the annual report on the work of the DRI in the coming period, it will achieve fully planned strategic objectives and meet the most important expectations. These are – strengthening responsibility for the integrity and transparency of state authorities and public sector entities. In view of all of the above, the SVM parliamentary group will support the conclusion that, following the recommendations and the DRI report, the Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds whose realisation will allow the removal of irregularities pointed out by the DRI in its report for last 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2137	Thank you. To take advantage of the opportunity, since others are doing so, holding the presidency to congratulate Rosalia on her first presentation as a national letter, since she came in a little later when some MPs left. Thank you. Let's move on. The next national MP is Diana Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2138	The President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of state institutions, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have today's reports for 2019, four important and in our work an independent institution. I don't want to diminish the importance of other independent institutions, but what we can conclude from these reports is that our citizens in the protection of their human rights were most directed to the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. What is characteristic of all governmental denials is that there are certain irregularities in the work and work, and the Ombudsman himself is the institution that performs when all other institutions fail and that protects our citizens when some other institutions are unable to give them an effective solution. The introduction of citizens' institutions into the political and legal system of our country is a reflection of the tendency for our citizens to focus, or position themselves in the very centre of state protection. This achieves a fair and responsible attitude towards citizens, but it also improves and develops the social dimension of the state. With this legal institute, each citizen has protection and security from the authorities, but also has protection against the poor and incorrect conduct of the public administration. I will agree with the finding, Mr Pasalic, that the Citizen's Protector is the institution that knows what it is that bothers the citizens of Serbia and that it is an institution that deals primarily with the control of the public administration's relationship with citizens, but generally according to the protection of all human rights and freedoms. What is particularly important today is that today in this high house, the home of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is just being considered and analyzed what is what has plagued our citizens during the previous period, and for which you submit these reports. What we can see from the report that you have submitted to us is that the complaints made to you by the citizens, but also through the procedures that you have initiated on your initiative, or from this report, we can see that you have paid particular attention to the most vulnerable groups, which is primarily protection of women and children's rights, then protection of the rights of victims of domestic violence or in any other partner relationship, persons with disabilities, older people, Roma and Roma, and other minority groups. When it comes to specific areas of rights, we see that citizens had the most difficulties to exercise their rights in economic and property relations, but they also had the greatest difficulties and to achieve their social and cultural rights. Through a wide range of your competences in 2019, although I believe you have had a number of challenges and problems, you have managed to make an important move in protecting human rights, but also to make a move in improving the work of public administration authorities. The protection of citizens' rights is particularly important, first of all, from mistreatment or mistreatment, and that is exactly what you did in the previous period. The public administration is through a wide range of public service provision most directly with citizens, i.e. making the most direct communication with citizens, and therefore it is particularly important that we all focus on protecting citizens from some of the mistreatment and irregular work of the public administration authorities, so that citizens actually experience it as their service, which is the aim of the public administration reform process that we are conducting, which we talked about a little bit more at one of the previous sessions. In addition to the great institutional importance that Serbia gives to this independent institution, we also care about the social affirmation of the Protectors of Citizens, and I would like to stress in particular that it is important that you continue what you have done so far, which is to increase the visibility and availability of the Citizens' Protectors, especially for those citizens living in the interior of Serbia. I think it's important for a number of reasons. Through these visits to municipalities and cities in conversation with citizens, but also with representatives of city and local authorities, in talks with representatives of public institutions, but also with civil society organisations, you will have the opportunity to hear not only the key problems our citizens face when they exercise their rights, but you will also have the opportunity to see, to bring your work closer to our citizens who are not in a position to be informed or directed in a way that protects their rights. Our citizens would be more informed in this way, but also directed, especially when it happens because of violations of the republican regulations in the local environments, and this is not the part of the Citizens' Protectors, or local Heroes, and so I would especially praise the project that you have listed in this Report, which you implemented in 2019 in collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, where you have increased the visibility and availability of the Citizens' Protectors who live in some smaller cities, but also in other municipalities in Serbia. Also, I believe that the Citizens' Protector should continue to focus all its capacities and towards preventive action, i.e. before certain problems arise, and through the implementation of different research, studies, information and thus distract the public, but also public administration authorities, that certain problems may arise. The protection of citizens in this way not only protects human rights and freedoms, but also contributes to the promotion of certain public administration bodies, and, above all, through the form of preventive action through the provision of good services, mediation, giving advice and opinions on some issues concerning its competence. It is also important to note, and it is necessary for our citizens to know, that the procedure with the Protector of Citizens is very simple and that, above all, it is free, that each citizen points to an individual case of violation of certain rights or seeking protection of his rights contributes and possible systemic correction in relation to the public administration's authority towards all of our citizens. Human and minority rights are an indicator of free and democratic society, and protecting these rights is the best indicator of the country's attitude towards citizens. Serbia has defined itself by introducing this institution to achieve the right and to realise the ideas of our citizens, the principles of equality, as well as the preservation of the dignity of all citizens. Therefore, the pursuit of all institutions in the state should be that the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, but also by laws are not violated, but respected, and this is the aim of the Protector of Citizens to protect each of us, but also of all our citizens. I would like to note in the end that the SPS MP group in Voting Day will support the adoption of this report, as well as all other reports that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2139	I thank the MP Diana Radovic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2140	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, today may not be some spectacular day if we look at this as a dry report. Reports are extensive, on hundreds of sides, basic ones, covering 2019, which we are slightly forgetting about today's events in 2020, but this 2020 will pass very quickly, and so that we don't make any failures, because here are human fates and human lives, finances, achieved or unrealized rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then we must view this report as both human lives and human fate and the future. These reports are very important, what and how those we, on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will give them certain rights and responsibilities as independent and independent state bodies, will continue to work and act in those areas where they have been given powers. What is common to all these four independent and independent state bodies is that they are slightly personified and identified with people who are headed by these institutions, but they and we all know that behind their basic and good work are very responsible and many professional associates and assistants and all those without whom none of them as individuals could have done this kind of work over the course of one year. What is common for all of these four bodies, which is the obligation of this home and the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, because they have earned this in the past period, is to allow for even easier, simpler and more efficient work through the creation of better material conditions, enabling the employment of more qualified associates, their more adequate rewarding to get as high as possible when we really ensure that these four institutions function as ideally and impeccably as possible. Someone will say that the least interesting state auditor, what there is now to think about, the debt side, the demand side, plus or minus and digitron, is the paper whether everything is leveled and paid, whether it is respected procedure in public procurement or some other regulations. However, accounting, if I may say so simply, is one serious science that requires extremely serious knowledge, subjugation, but primarily requires stability, as well as in all areas of life, nothing is set up so that there is no dilemma. Then when you think about dilemmas, you know how they get rid of them, and even the state auditor. What is important is that independence and independence are ensured in the work of the state auditor and that any decision that is not defined by the laws itself is done in the most precise way on their part exclusively for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, what follows is an initiative to correct certain regulations, although they say that the more man tries to define each possible situation individually, the more holes in the law and creates. For the State Auditor and what he does, we can only say how much praise we will be able to help them get an even greater number of people, so that we can do our work more often and faster in the local environments, help those who manage budgets to use them properly and will depend on how much more reason we as the Assembly will be satisfied because we have done a good job. Each of these people who are at the head of these institutions is also the fact that it is a stamp on the work of the institution, because yet, at the end of the ballad, about what will come out in the public and what will be done in many cases, they decide, by heart, by someone with experience, by relying on routines and associates, so that fortunately, when it comes to the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the heart he invests and the positive energy in his work, unlike the NGO sector that deals with many problems, and which he deals with the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Mrs Brankica Jankovic, is somewhere to stop his own heart in the part that ends with the powers that he has, because it is a little different, I'm afraid that because of some things, we would soon have to set up either NGOs or an agency for the protection of the rights of most discrimination, which is an aggressive minority. It's something that we in Serbia clearly see. Most are retreating to the minority, even by giving in to some traditional, well-checked values deeply embedded in this society, which I personally think is inadmissible and that it can be counterproductive in this whole situation. For this reason, we fully support the Socialist Movement, the change of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, which already requires a lot of changes in all these procedures that exist in powers, in the way that recommendations, warnings and all that the Protector of Citizens has as part of his powers. I must say that, not only his opinion, but the opinion and the Commissioner for Information of public importance and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, and also the State Auditor, for me personally, and for us Members of the Socialist Movement, is far more important when new laws are passed, but what the Venice Commission thinks, what the EU thinks. I can say that I am not interested in either the Venice Commission or the EU, Mr Pasalic, I am interested in the law that you propose being exclusively in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why such a repulsive attitude towards the Venice Commission? For me, it was a notion up to one moment from a man who is a member of the Venice Commission, but not in front of the Republic of Serbia, but from one of our neighbouring countries, I didn't hear a sentence that she said, anything they suggest, 16 times, because mostly, nothing good and smart about your country as a recommendation you won't get. I respect the thinking of smarter than myself, so I'm holding on to it, but I'm trying to say that we, from the Socialist Movement, are going to stick to some old traditional values. We fully support the concerns of all creditors to fight discrimination against all kinds, whether it is racial, sex, property, and even sexual orientations, but we will never agree to the conclusion of equal marriages, with registration of same-sex communities, because we think it is something, which, for starters, is absolutely the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I consider any engagement in that direction as unconstitutional activity. Whatever the EU gentlemen mean, because, right to tell you, I don't remember ever being sent anything good, from the Battle of Kosovo, through the murder of Karajord, World War I, World War II, etc. On that side, we got a little bit of good. I'm very sorry, but maybe it's a good thing we're not talking about 2020 today, because we're still in it, it's still getting fresh, but how important it is for the institution and the Protector of Citizens and Cooperation with the Commissioner for Information, when it comes to seeing just the time of emergency, at the time of the battle against the crown, when we really had the opportunity to see one maximum engagement and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Protector of Citizens in order to detect any possible threat to any human rights and rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ground all the time, and to tell you the truth, I have the impression that they haven't taken care of their health at all. It probably takes time to analyze it a little bit. We saw you in the migrant crisis, we saw you in prisons, we saw you when it came to trials, but we saw you in the field and there were riots that happened during the summer, which I think were staged from the west. Okay, maybe I'm wrong, or maybe I shouldn't say it so openly, but that's honestly my thing. You will be supported, indeed, when it comes to changing that law, in everything that comes to the limit of interference in other people's powers. Some colleagues before me said this wasn't the fourth branch of government, and I totally agree with that. For that reason, deliberately that introduction from the beginning of my discussion, but, that you have the authority that is defined by the laws, that you have the authority and the ability to use them, that's absolutely clear. It is therefore very good that in 2017 and 2019, as the Assembly of these two very important institutions, we brought people who were judges, who know very well how to distance personal feelings from what was prescribed and allowed by law. I can understand the need to find more effective ways to, I say, allow those who are obliged to do so to act on your recommendations, but I believe that part of the cake of the government that belongs to the independent and independent government, which is the judicial authority, can neither, nor, be curtailed by a micronomous power that will be passed on to you as trustees in the future. I think it's a very good shade and it seems to me that it's going very well, but we'll discuss it in more detail when it comes to the agenda. At the end of my discussion, I'm going to ask the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matters and the Protection of Personality Data to take this as an official initiative on my part. That's what we talked about during his election, and I think it's time to think it through, and that's one of the illogical things his predecessor did. Practically, on the basis of a recommendation from the former Commissioner, it is not possible to establish against whom court proceedings are being conducted through the portal of the courts. He says it doesn't match this or that. According to Serbian laws, each of us, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the adult has the right to enter every courtroom today, except in strictly forbidden cases, to sit down, to listen to the trial, to be public at the trial, and that is the undeniable right of every citizen. If any citizen can enter the courtroom and find out that some procedure is being conducted in that courtroom against Gjorge Komlenski, I absolutely do not understand where the idea of the previous trustee, whose name I do not want to say, makes it impossible for the citizens of Serbia to, in its recommendation, in the simple way that they had through the portal courts in those segments of the legislation, or, in the judicial system in which it is allowed, to check whether a person is being prosecuted for some sort of procedure, with which he will close the deal tomorrow, who comes to their house, whether the company with which they are to cooperate has one or 1001 judicial dispute where he is being sued for certain things. I think at that point it was a classic mistake, not to say abuse by the trustees. I think we should work on it to get it back again, because if we already have a very well developed portal of courts, of course, there should be no home number, no data should appear, but by name and last name, or by name of the company, it must be simple for each of us to check who we're dealing with, or then, gentlemen, suggest that the Criminal Procedure Act and other laws change, or even the Constitution, to end public trials, because it's just so contradictory to each other, it's absolutely unimaginable. Since I want to leave time for my colleagues to be able to tell you their observations, I can say that your reports will be adopted, because these reports say that during 2019, a very serious, very responsible and very hard work has been done, that a huge effort and energy has been compromised, that it is not, we would probably be much harder to go through this 2020, about my thinking, what should be made possible for all these institutions for better work, I will try to always speak in the Assembly, and I hope that we will provide it together. I want you to know that in 2021, we are no longer dealing with the brats and the problems that he caused, but to return to normal activities and to continue doing as well as you've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2141	I thank the People's MP, George Komlensky. The next is a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. You are aware that your MP group has two minutes and 45 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2142	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected representatives of independent institutions, respected colleagues, today we have reports from four independent and independent state institutions, whose role is supervisory and advisory. With their work, the institution contributes and has great importance in achieving the human rights of the most vulnerable citizens and vulnerable groups. I will not deal with other bodies, I will pay attention to the institution of the Protector of Citizens. According to the Report before us today, in 2019 it was challenging for the Citizens' Protector as an independent state body, whose task is to protect the rights of citizens and control the work of the state administration, the authorities responsible for the administrative protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all other bodies and organisations, businesses and institutions entrusted with public authority. Preserving the principle of independence of a state body entrusted with concerns about the protection and improvement of human and minority rights and freedoms, the report says that in 2019, work with citizens has been improved by resolving numerous complaints, increasing the availability of the institutions themselves to citizens living in smaller towns and municipalities in Serbia and increasing the number of responses by their own initiative. The availability of institutions to citizens living in smaller towns and municipalities in Serbia is particularly important. In particular, citizens of Prepolje and the surrounding municipalities have the opportunity to contact the Legal Service of the Protector of Citizens through Skype from the library and appeal to the work of the public authorities. If this institution is not the right address to address their problems, it will receive expert advice to address and exercise its rights to the authorities. I also find it very important to visit cities and municipalities, with the aim of bringing citizens closer to the competences of the institutions and the ways in which they can exercise their rights. The report shows that around 11,000 citizens were addressed to the Protector in 2019, and more than 3,200 complaints were received, in which citizens pointed to violations of their rights. Of which, in the area of child rights as a particularly endangered group, 223 cases were considered, which pointed to 485 violations of rights, most of which relate to special rights in the area of child rights. It is particularly devastating to know that due to insufficient financial resources due to the implementation of economic measures, services for children are not being developed and some are being abolished. For example, one of the first austerity measures in the city of Belgrade was the suspension of funding for street children, and a significant number of local self-government units did not establish a personal escort service for children and other forms of support for child education due to lack of funding. I'm interested in how many local self-governments listen to your recommendations, especially for me who comes from education, and I know the importance of the service of a personal companion... (President: Excuse me, you'll have to close. )......................................................................................................... both for the children themselves and for the parents and teaching staff. For us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, one of the main goals is to strengthen all institutions that will exercise the rule of law. Independent institutions whose reports we are considering today are some of these important institutions, whose work is important for the establishment of the rule of law. So much more important is the review of the report in the plenary section, which will contribute to the understanding of the work and the conduct of independent institutions, which will contribute to the legislative regulation dealing with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2143	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2144	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of independent institutions, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would take advantage of the opportunity to refer to the DRI Work Report for 2019 in today's discussion. Since its establishment, i.e. since 2005, it has been responsible for around 11,000 direct, indirect and all other state resources users, helping the state in control of how and how its resources are managed. In this way, I believe that transparency has increased in these 15 years, but what is also more important is the financial discipline of all levels of government when we talk about spending public funds. The state audit institution in the previous year, apart from all the regular audits it has done, has made 1,970 recommendations and I think that in the best possible way, plastically speaking, what is your effect, in order for everyone to understand us, is 168.69 million dinars of savings, which through an increase in some incomes, i.e. a reduction in expenditure, thanks to your work. Through the prism of that result, I think that in the best possible way and depicts actually all the importance of all independent institutions when we talk about the functioning of the state of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, the DRI contributed to the positive work of the public administration by using state finances, affecting a more responsible relationship and the safe spending of public money. It also influences the reduction of the corruption process itself, which I consider to be one of the pains of our society. Speaking of corruption, I think she's the cancer of every society, including ours. I'm not talking here, of course, about systemic corruption, but about some kind of corruption that is potentially done by individuals, and in any case, it's what makes us as a society anyway. The task of us as MPs is to enable you, as independent institutions, to insist that in this sense you have a completely unobstructed work and that we all insist on it together and talk about it and to some extent open awareness with citizens that if they come into contact with such a thing they do not actually turn their heads but to see that they have the support of all of us, states, independent institutions and also us as representatives of the legislative authority here. The National Assembly is a kind of supervisory of the work of the State Auditing Institution, because it adopts all your work reports and in that sense, you present us with what you have done with your annual reports. That's right this time. When it comes to the Socialist Party of Serbia, I must point out that we are fully in favour of transparency policy, when it comes to spending public funds, the money that belongs to all of us here, to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I don't think we should have any dilemma. I really also think of the state in this fight as a strong support, because it is one of the pillars of building a healthy society and society that will depend most on its vitality. Also, in addition to the successful economic policy and the growth of the standard of living that all governments have been working on in the last eight years, I think it is very important that we also deal with the monsters that are coming to these very abuses when it comes to the management of public funds and I believe that all of us MPs share the same opinion on the subject and have a consensus when it comes to it. There is, of course, a need for the joint activity of all, both us as legislators and executives, as well as the judicial branches of government. I think we need to send a clear message that when it comes to corruption we have zero tolerance as a state and there is no conversation on this subject. I think it's also one of the things, as I said, and the cancer of every society's wounds, including ours, and we don't need to turn our heads in front of that subject when it comes to her. That fight isn't easy and it won't be easy. It is one of the preconditions, in addition to economic, for building a rule of law, as well as for respecting citizens as taxpayers, as those who here as MPs are also paying us. These public funds must be used both transparently and legally, and there is a DRI that will benefit from all its legal powers and control the legality of spending these funds, and that is actually the way to strengthening financial discipline and accountability, strengthening the rule of law and Serbia really committed to doing so through this, let me say, the fourth pillar, which is precisely the independent institutions that you represent. I believe that only with this open approach, insisting on the full transparency and financial responsibility of all users of public funds at all levels of government, we can also strengthen the trust of those for whom we are here, and these are our citizens. I therefore believe that the exhausted and detailed report of the DRI is important in raising the waiting scale, not only on the plan for responsible spending of state money, but also on responsible controls and of course what you represent, which is the supreme state audit institution, but also on sending a message to other institutions what is the norm that we here as MPs are actually expecting and I congratulate you on that. The Socialist Party of Serbia has always been on the side of its citizens, a responsible approach both in the conduct of state policy and through the prism of this and in the use of public funds, and therefore the SPS parliamentary club will support your report and what we expect of you in the coming period is to keep this level of work and efficiency in the coming period. From us, if you succeed, you will always have support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2145	I thank Parliamentarian Ugljeshi Markovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still think we should respect Article 96 and discuss the proposals for conclusions, and the conclusion is an act, the act has a proposal to defend the board's conclusion here. The report is a document that comes to the board, the committee adopts this report with the participation of all representatives who are here today and then the authorised representative of the board, which is Mr Bacevic, that is Mrs Tomic, and I think it is Mr Djukanovic, as proponents of the act here to defend it, and the following report is the document that we have in mind. They have the right to assist the draft act, but I repeat the report is not an act. It is a revolutionary thing that Sabic promoted here several years ago when he led more politics together with Jankovic, more politically than he performed as a Trustee. He was more of a conspiracy somehow. Since that British embassy gave him, as much as it was, 150, 200 thousand pounds, I can't remember exactly, slightly less than General Simovic when he shot down the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, from that moment on, man has changed his behavior. Here he and Jankovic then tried, I don't know who the chairman was, it seems to me Mr Marinkovic, to present himself as acting promoters, and then this assembly, that is, with my opposition, gave way and allowed the report to be considered an act, which is not true. It is regulated by the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure and democracy is a procedure to be followed. As for the same-sex marriages, unlike Mr. Komlensky, I support same-sex marriages, but only for persons born in same-sex marriages, which is fair. The line should continue, no matter what some MPs think about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I got a message tonight - you should be killed. I tell them – it's okay, you tried once, it didn't work, maybe another time it worked. Perhaps the great believer Bosko Obradovic, who attacked me at St. Mark, will be the village glory of me... I had to leave the guests, come because we did something for the sake of the opposition, for the sake of democracy, it seems to me to facilitate the collection of signatures, regardless of what this election list has already handed over, it seems to me, the list and collected signatures, in the notaries. We wanted to make it easier for them to do it in the local offices and municipalities. I wasn't against it, with the fact that I have to say that those 10,000 signatures at the notaries have just been established by them. They found that the political party must have 10,000 certified signatures, and today they perform, with your approval, various associations of citizens perform as parapolitical parties. Three members register the association and say we're moving. Where's the movement register? Go ahead. I know there's a register of association, sports associations, or sports teams. There's an APR, it registers companies. It also registers associations, and there is a register of political parties. Today in the political sky, and most of you support them, I know it, so a little less than they did, and I'll prove it a little bit, most of them perform as a political party quite unauthorized. I don't think that in Western democracies would be allowed that much. I don't think we should give in too much, and we should always tell the truth. In Parliament, the truth should be spoken whether any of these independent bodies, organs, etc. Like it or not. You can't have a message from a messenger - you should be killed, and on the other hand there are some among you who say - you can't go out to an inappropriate congregation, it needs a hate speech, etc. I didn't hear in this stimulant hate speech. It happened that someone said something, and then they got a hook and a hook on the other side and then they defended the bright characters of the Legs and these hangers on the first day, the second day, the third night, etc. I didn't see you judge it so strongly. I don't know if you've condemned these beatings of mine, you might be judging if they bring a rifle to the next saint and that great believer Bosko Obradovic shot me in the foot of the National Assembly. I didn't see you criticizing, I don't even know if you have the right to criticise the prosecution, the judiciary, etc. Which, for example, fellow Members of Parliament, brothers and sisters, comrades and friends, colleagues and colleagues, we here... (President: With respect to your casual style, I don't want to interrupt you, I don't think it's appropriate to speak in this House with your hands in your pockets. Thank you. With your hand in your pocket? I'm sorry. It's really inappropriate, but let them call it hate speech. So, I don't know what it's all about so I can't keep my hand in my pocket, but come on, I can put it on my tie. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps if I had been shot, maybe someone would have convicted me. What am I supposed to say about the justice and the prosecution? We have the status of officials and at the foot of the National Assembly. The attack on an MP who went to work on the steps of the National Assembly is an attack on an official person. The prosecution immediately qualified it as violent behavior, as if I had been caught in the stadium, and then the hooligans started, so they welcomed me because I'm rooting for the opposite team, so it's considered violent behavior in the group. I don't understand. We have sworn to honor the Constitution, the laws, minority and human rights. Are we people here? Or are we a little less people who should always be criticized? If something in the heat of a struggle is said, it cannot be considered a hate speech, and you today have statements that the Assembly, hate speech, must not do so in public space, etc. I'm going to use the opportunity to speak as simple as I can, because the hardest thing to say is simple, and the citizens understand you. I think that we are overprotecting and paying attention to these wealthy members of the tycoon elite who are trying to impress the media, etc., to create a media landscape and a little bit of threat to some revolutions, and one of them tried not so long ago, it was reportedly because we are overprotecting people's health and we are introducing some measures and the National Assembly has been broken. I didn't see that there was an exaggeration of some great condemnation of those thugs who didn't choose funds. I didn't even see the police being protected that way. I believe that they have human rights and that someone who throws a 20-pound fence at it, anywhere in Western democracies or throws a two-pound stone, let them do it in front of the White House, will be shot on the spot, as far as I know. Look only in France as they deal with people who didn't exactly demoralize the palace, but on the streets they had "yellow vests" of certain unrest and their police were far more radical towards those protesters than ours. We have to call things a real name. You all have to protect just an ordinary man. I do not ask you to protect the people and the congregation more than ordinary people, if this continues, I will ask for the establishment of "the guardian of the villagers". They're our most valuable people. They're the ones who make sure we have something to eat every day. These are our workers who work daily to make sure that we have a product that we can take out on the market, sell it, take money and share it, and I must admit that always we who sit get more of them, who are hard on the back and work in the fields, at work places for scraps, rodents, machines that sew, which process metal, etc. You need to protect ordinary people. Let's not protect those people who are through RTS, REM, and I don't know which institutions have acquired huge capital and which is the most important thing for television and media to belong to. I know why they do it. I'm not a pet of the media, when you type in my name and name, like I'm Osama bin Laden, and I don't know if I've done anything, let some colleagues say or some ministers say in eight or nine years, whether I've ever asked for anything for myself or if I've ever been able to steal anything or persuade another to do it. However, their media crew, their coalition of media, has made me nice to make maltenes some kind of main thief, and they snuck in if you say anything against them, then it's a big heresy, then the court solves, say, a tycoon's lawsuit in two months, and when I sue some media, it takes four or five years. To him, 300,000 dinars, and to me, 40,000 dinars, probably he as richer, more important, his compensation must be proportionate to his wealth. I'll also tell you when you're already in favour of equality, I'm here to advocate equality. I wish all of you who have chosen us had no greater wages than we, not that we have more wages than you or the same as you, but that you have no greater wages than we who choose you. You all have official cars, you have secretaries, etc. We folk MPs do not have and it is almost unthinkable for me, colleagues and colleagues, it is unthinkable that we choose people who have three or four times as much wages as we do, and in order to get here we have to go through a cruel election procedure, or that voters say whether we are here or not. Then on behalf of the voters, we choose the officials of certain bodies and organs that have several times more salaries than we do. It's a violation of equality and a significant violation of equality, and I have to tell you that you're always in some kind of shade, don't get it wrong, unlike us. Let's just say, no one's staring at your plate, or if you're drinking coffee at the workplace or not, at any price. We have a service here called the Department of Joint Affairs, that is, part of that service. Otherwise, the administration covers the authorities and organisations of the state in the Republic of Serbia and nothing is suspicious, only suspicious in the Assembly. It's cheap coffee, it's cheap food, and if at the same prices, it's all used to all the organs. Is there an inequality of equality? I think so. Unlike other state bodies, employees, etc., we are in a certain way victims, i.e. people with far less rights, less equal than everyone else. And let me say, all these waiters who work here aren't ours. These are organ workers, or the Joint Affairs Administration and we journalists here, I haven't been going to a restaurant in six years, so once I've gone three main meals, there's not one. I'm asking what this is now at two o'clock you don't have any lunch? Like, there's something from the barbecue, this-that. I say, listen, how is that not there? He says, "Eat the press." The journalists come and eat and then they write that we don't know what we ate, and then they give us all the supplies that are supplied by common authorities, including some that we haven't seen, which are intended for these public procurements for foreign delegations, when there's a Prime Minister, Minister, President of the Republic, etc., when they have some dinner for foreign guests, etc. All those groceries are attributed to us. Now you come here, someone today to make a statement, in this assembly, etc. Okay, well, if you don't need the Parliament, somebody else pick you, I don't mind. As for the auditor, I know you're trying to do, I'm telling you that local self-government lives better than here. I don't know if the Assembly has three or four cars, I'm not sure which one of us, as far as I've noticed, is using. Maybe the president of the assembly uses cars, we don't use them. Take a look at some local self-government as many official cars as they have. Well, there's every secretary in the public firm in the last one, so look, you tell me, JP per check, if you've ever been to that Trieste. So the man who was here was an MP, founded a village public enterprise. He had one broken truck and one employee, i.e. myself as director and official car. So it's a phenomenon that I don't avoid, here's a change of government, etc., that happens during this government. Look over there a little by local self-government, I watch, some there as soon as they get to work somewhere early in the morning around nine o'clock, they say good morning and I good morning, they plan, or they go somewhere for breakfast. Then when they come back from eleven till one, they plan where they're going to go to lunch and then I'm watching, you know, you know, we peasants, when we see pigs together, they just move their tails. That's how I see local officials, some locals, honor exceptions, see after those lunches, that makes up three or four tables. You need to look at some of that team, etc. It's best with the press. Let's hit the Assembly a little bit, MPs, etc. My dear colleagues, I don't know when one of you had the chance to sign some team and some lunch, I'm here for these last, nine years and what I was five years ago, for the 13-14 years I've never signed lunch. What's going on, Mr. Auditor, what's going on in these municipalities? How many teams are there? How much can be saved, etc., give a little talk, write about it too, because they do the most damage to the common man who there in the poorest municipality has to pay the corresponding fee, the salary tax, the property tax, etc. Then public officials in the municipality live far better than MPs. It's my right to defend the National Assembly and all my colleagues, and it's your right to resent it, but the DRI was founded in 2005, if I'm not mistaken. Now, what was the auditor doing in 2006, 2007, did he ever perform an audit? Many will resent me, and perhaps even the judges, I must warn them. The court forbade journalists to write about a consulting contract with the firm, I can't remember what the company was called, "SEL". Since it's not, since this is some new firm and a new consulting contract, I hope the Honorable Judges won't mind me showing you another contract on the Ada Bridge. So it's not the only consulting contract. This is a consulting contract called a consulting contract for the project manager's services. In 2006, they contracted six million 489 thousand. Six million, be careful. The bridge was estimated at 118 million at that point. Later on, the bridge, I'm not talking about traffic, the price has been raised to 160 million, and some European bank has participated with 68 million, but the city of Belgrade has allocated 87 million from the budget, which means that most of the money came from the city's budget. Without public procurement, a contract has been signed. Who audited this? That's what I'm interested in, no matter what other auditor he was. I expect you to find this for me. So, the date of the start of the original contract on July 1st, 2007. To remind us that the bridge was started to be built in December 2008, which means that for two years they paid consulting services of engineers who had nothing to advise them because the bridge was simply not built. I don't know what he advised them. I guess he advised them how to raise the price of the bridge so he could fit in a little bit more. In 2009, they had little, so they added another 328,000 euros in annex 1, and then it was probably nice, so in April, they increased that by 155,000 euros to make them even more beautiful. Then to my surprise, I couldn't believe that that same year on October 19, 2000, the basic contract, which was without public procurement, had nothing to do, increased by another six million 710 thousand and grew to 15 million and 88 thousand. From the basic price of the bridge, that's 14%. I ask you, Mr. Auditor, how can a consulting contract for some surveillance cost 14% of the original price of the bridge and something stronger or almost 10% when they raised the price for steel, allegedly 160 million, because of the price of steel in China, what did they say, that team of Belgrade authorities? I'm angry with our local government in Belgrade. They had that consulting contract, this is the second time I've been saying this in the last year, this is the second consulting contract. They filed a complaint against the N.N. faces. Wait, so the consulting agreement wasn't signed by the Martians. If someone is ruling Belgrade, I also resent our authorities in Belgrade, so I guess they could chop up a little bit of paper to see who signed the contract and file criminal charges that are valid against those persons. If any of them are interested in the consulting contract number two, I don't know how much the first one was, which means they're loading the bridge on Ada as a partner mare. Who needed that fence with a million, two, 300, 155 grand. Such phenomena should be stopped because in such a way you will protect the poor and keep the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2147	Only that, in the capacity of the chairman-in-Office of Parliament, Marijan Rističević was currently in charge of his initial objections, as he had already advertised the Rules of Procedure during the day and called for Article 96. Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that this is a special session on regular reports of four independent regulatory bodies with, of course, conclusions and recommendations of adequate parent committees and I would remind you that in this case, Articles 238 and 238 of Article 4 refer to this session. The Rules of Procedure, to quote to you - The National Assembly shall consider the report of an independent state body and the report of the committee responsible with a proposal for a conclusion, i.e. a recommendation, further, Article 239(2) at the meeting of the National Assembly, a session of the National Assembly, therefore plenary, shall be called upon by a representative of the State Authority, an organisation, or body whose report is under consideration. Therefore, we here today had not only authorised representatives of the Committee, we know that these were respected colleagues Djukanovic, Aleksandra Tomic and Muamer Bačevac, but also the Commissioner himself, the Trustee, the Ombudsman, the gentleman in front of the DRI. I see you're advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2148	Article 103 concerning Article 96, which you mentioned, not me, so I didn't advertise it twice, but now this is the first time again. So Article 96 is clear. It says – in the basic procedure following the opening of the initial search, all points of the agenda of the National Assembly shall be entitled to speak in accordance with the following order and time-consuming order of the act, i.e. the authorised representative of the group of motions which shall receive the word when requested and shall not be subject to restrictions on the duration of the presentation. So, I'm talking about the duration of exposure. At the session, they can be called, it's not controversial, but here it strictly says who has no limit, who represents a certain act, etc. Now I could ask my colleagues and colleagues. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is more obvious, but I am not asking for a vote, and I said thanks to why and who this confusion has arisen, and we are only following it from Rodoljub Šabić's step, a political step, and Jankovic, the former Citizens' Protector, who have forced this right which we now, under some ordinary law, have been exercising for several years. I could ask, if Aleksandra Tomic is the proponent of the act, if Mr. Bačevac is the proposer of the act, the conclusion, then they have the right to perform. You may have more act promoters, but only one of the proposings has the right to represent the act. I don't mind if this usually goes on, but we have to change this provision of the Rules of Procedure, and as far as the special session is concerned, the big question is whether someone has been invited to a special session, and the big question is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2149	Thank you. The time foreseen for advertising of the Rules of Procedure has expired. You quoted an article in '96, in which it was written, in the basic procedure. I'd like to explain to you that this is the next application of the Rules of Procedure. He's referring to a special session. Now we're not passing the law, we're doing our control function, and I'd quote you Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly where it is very clear that a representative of an independent state body whose report is being discussed is also present at the meeting of the National Assembly. You're right to drag this problem out, but let me get this straight. It should be clear to all of us almost at the end of the working day that we are discussing reports that we are not changing, but we are adopting the conclusions of the parent committees. Let's keep going. Next up is Nina Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2150	I thank the chairman. Dear representatives of independent institutions, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens, today I will talk on behalf of the SPS about a report by the Commissioner on information of public importance and protection of personal data for 2019. The Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection shall be an independent state body, independent of its duties, and in order to exercise the right to access information of public importance at the disposal of public authorities. The trustee institution was introduced in the Republic of Serbia in 2005. He is elected by the MPs for five years, and the Commissioner is obliged to submit his annual report to the National Assembly and this is 15 reports in a row. The 2018 report found that in 2018, as I said, it was the year with the most challenges in work and the years of the most extensive work. The same can be said by 2019. The Commissioner's service carries out its work through two areas – in relation to the right to free access to information of public importance and in the area of protection of personal data. The right to free access to information of public importance in Serbia has been widely used since 2019. The users of this right are mostly citizens, associations of citizens, media representatives and authorities, political parties, lawyers, economic operators. The law prescribed by the Law on free access to information of public importance belongs to all under equal conditions and without discrimination, regardless of nationality, residence, gender, nationality, religion, national and ethical membership. In the area of protection of personal data, the most important thing is to say that in August 2019, the Personal Data Protection Act began to be implemented, which is only the beginning of the regulation of the legal framework in this area. In 2019, the trustee received a total of 14,000 items, i.e. 13.989, of which more than half were received, i.e. 6.760 refers to freedom of access to information, 6.078 to the protection of personal data, and 1.151 applies simultaneously to both areas of the functioning of the Trustee. The number of cases received in 2019 represents a slight increase compared to 2018. During 2019, the trustee achieved co-operation with state authorities, civil society organisations and business associations, as well as other institutions, which is commendable. The trustee may be considered to be some kind of control mechanism and public service of the users of public funds, whether local self-government, public authorities, public services or other bodies and organisations. A trustee in every democratic society should be an institution that is a mediator between citizens and institutions and that eases and solves conflict situations with its work. The state authorities should view the Commissioner as an associate to help create better co-operation with citizens. The Commissioner should also exercise his established function by means of a law that adequately points to the problems that citizens face in the exercise of their rights. Citizens, Commissioners and state authorities are three sides that should never be in conflict, but to contribute to the achievement of citizens' legal rights to the common forces. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the report, as well as other reports on today's agenda, in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2151	I thank the MP Nina Pavicevic. The next is National MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2152	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests from independent state authorities, today I'm going to talk about discrimination based on an age, so the Report of the Protector of Citizens, but very briefly. First of all, I can't help but express my satisfaction because for the thousandth time, the offended family of Mr. Vukic, our president. Guys, that's embarrassing. You're insulting the president's institute. Come on, you insult him, but you insult his children, you insult his mother, shame and enough. We've adopted a code of conduct here, we're acting in accordance with the law, with the Rules of Procedure, how much, what should be done for these people to stop talking so uglyly, imagine the latest curses. I just, I guess, read it in the movies, and I hear this, and I'm creeping myself out, "Let your bloody seed and tribe be destroyed." Shame on you! That's the kind of thing only a desperate person can say, someone who's been killed by an entire family. Guys, what's this about? What's this? I'm ashamed to read this, but enough. Are you talking about the man who raised Serbia from the ashes? Thanks to him, we're a respectable country in the world. Thanks to him, we received a multi-million-euro donation yesterday so we could supply a whole Kovid hospital. People, thanks to him, his charisma, his work, his patriotism. Let's see what we can do with these people, inhumans. I don't want to talk about them anymore, but I'm really shaking, so they're somebody's kids. To whom should seeds and tribes be destroyed? Shame on you! They should all react so that something like that never happens again! I took this, I chose this report from the Guardian to see what it's like now. You gave this report very comprehensively and how it used to be. Once upon a time, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, your predecessor, worked for up to an hour, from an hour on a bicycle ride in Adi Giganlia, but that's his. Imagine he was the Protector of the Citizens, so who was he, a martyr, protecting? You know what he was doing? He used state resources to do his own campaign. That's what we saw, the first time he showed up in this assembly when he was a presidential candidate. Shame on him! It never happened again. He bought himself a car, a woman's car, used everything he could to promote himself. The way he worked, he did. We've seen how it went, and I hope nothing like that ever happens again. I'm surprised he didn't do anything wrong. If he wanted to do politics, you know what to do. To quit, most normally, everyone has the right to run for president, please. About how the president works, how we do, how this government works, Serbian citizens say well, 60% of voters voted for us, please don't insult us, but just give us the program nicely. If you're better, go to the election, you'll win. And about that, on your brief report, I took a vulnerable group and this age-based discrimination because I really don't think anyone who gave birth to you, raised you, spent your whole life working on you, educated you, made you human, didn't deserve to be paid back in such a way, to discriminate against him, to abuse him, to disrespect him. Fortunately, this is still a patriarchal society, traditionally, we still have a really good system of values, so I'm sure it's not. I read it, and I'm not sure it's a good percentage, that 20% over 65 years of age has been abused in any way. I see here that 3.9% was physically abused. Then, 8% psychologically, of course there are neglects, confiscation of property, and that's unacceptable. That's why you're here to react with us together, of course, because you're responsible directly to us. We're choosing you, and I'm sure you'll do your job well, but I was surprised by the fact that it's still a much larger number. The only thing that is good is that in 2019 there was a lower percentage of discrimination than in 2018. Probably because we have these reports and because they're doing well, so people are conscious of the problem and they're working on state institutions, organizations, institutions to help old people, and something like that can't happen again. I'm sure the next report will be based on data that's smaller by a percentage again until we root it out. A million and 400,000 people in Serbia are over 65 years old, almost 23% are women, more than 5% of men. No wonder, there are fewer men, because we've fought all our lives, fought defensive wars, all wars died, and World War I and World War II, wars of the 1990s, it wasn't repeated, but the fact that women are more exposed to abuse and psychological and physical and taking away property. Thanks to your recommendations I like, I'm sure the government will consider them, I see you mentioned here that you need to strengthen the capacities of the social work center, I agree. That more doctors, psychologists, social workers should be hired, and what's good is that you mentioned that you should educate a complete family for co-existence with an older population. We're going to vote your conclusions and what's most important is to say that thanks to our president yesterday we got vaccines and that these vaccines go exactly where they need to be, meaning the vulnerable population, and that's the old ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2153	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is ten minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2154	I thank the esteemed chairman. 0 Dear representatives of the independent institutions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Jankovic, I have already pointed out to you once at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Justice how important the SPS are. That's why I'm going to be talking about your report today, or some of its aspects that are closest to me and that I may consider to be the strongest, since I want to be as concise as possible, but I won't miss the chance to say that the president of the National Assembly and the president of the SPS this year and formally declared a gentleman in 2020. I think it's information that is extremely important in the context of the struggle for gender equality. It is important that all MPs know that they will always have strong support for the President of the Ivica Dacic Assembly. In your report, you stated that it is necessary to promote youth participation and that is why I want to show you, and you have probably noticed, that is to say, we have demonstrated that young people are MPs and how they are capable of articulating the opinion and interests of Serbian citizens. I am today the fourth young MPs from the list of SPS to speak, and the third MP commenting on reports on the agenda. In this context, as a young woman, I have to point out a question that comes to most young women when they show up, which is whether to progress in work, whether to improve further, whether it is how modern it is said to pursue a career, or perhaps it is more important to hurry up with marriage and family. And it's often either that or, precisely because of the discrimination you've detected in the report, which is based on marital and family status. In fear of preventing, or reduced opportunities for progress at work, in fear of quitting and in general worsening of the position in the workplace, women often delay the decision to marry and make a decision about offspring. That's why I think the fight against this kind of discrimination is extremely, extremely important. I believe that in the years that are coming, there will be less and less discrimination based on gender, and more and more discrimination on this basis because women who have family obligations will be in a somewhat worse position than those who have given up on those decisions about offspring and marriage. That is why your recommendations on ways to coordinate work and parenting are extremely important. We must encourage employers to apply them as widely as possible. Here, let's say the work of the house has rarely been applied so far, and at the time of the pandemic has proved to be a fully applicable working-legal mechanism. There are other working-legal mechanisms that you listed, and we need to put them in wide application. Our society must not condemn women who have decided to put priority on their business success. We must also not condemn women who have decided to devote themselves to their family and care for their children, who have decided to be housewives because I consider it to be one title. We also need to enable women to combine those two roles. In this, men can make a big contribution if they are more willing to take over part of the child business. Here's a smile from a folk MP, Snowy Paunovic, who this morning when we were discussing me said that if I were to appeal to men to take care of children, I would never get married. The woman kept her traditional role. The woman is still a mother, the woman is still a wife, but now she's busy, now she's carrying part of the burden of supporting the whole family. You see, a modern man, he wants a woman who's successful, but that she's not more successful than he is. He wants a woman he doesn't have to support, a woman who makes money, but doesn't make more money than he does. She wants a woman who's beautiful, but she's not beautiful after all. I think you need men and women to match each other. Now, you've led men to rarely use leave-of-work leave for child care, and in fact, that might not be bad. It should be acknowledged that women are more unorthodox and successful. Women are successful today, doctors, teachers, lawyers, but they're also successful military faces, truck drivers. I think this division of men and women's jobs will be completely lost in some future period. In any case, the message is that we should clearly condemn any kind of discrimination against women and especially those employers who ask questions about marriage and family opportunities and plans in job talks. We must not only sanction but make such questions ashamed. I would like to conclude this topic of gender equality, and as a socialist, I have to look back on our old ones, our grandmothers and children who have built this country and whom we owe our gratitude and we have to fight for them to spend their adult years at least with dignity. I believe that one day we will all be grandparents and such that we will be worthy of the respect of our grandchildren. Finally, I would take the opportunity, since this is my last exhibit this year to congratulate the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the new 2021 with the basic desire that the coronary virus becomes an ugly memory as soon as possible and create beautiful, beautiful memories and many health and joys in the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2155	I thank the People's Messenger, Deep King. The next is MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2156	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will only talk about the report on the DRI, because I have had the opportunity to be a participant in it on the other hand and I want to share some of the experiences I have and I have some suggestions. The first DRI function is control. Control that needs to be in the public sector, who uses public finances, simply to say whether it's doing well, whether or not primarily to direct it to do it properly. I think they're lucky, there's a lot of entities that are in the public finances system and they're lucky where the DRI comes from, because every control, every inspection, every well-intentioned thing, and I think that's the DRI, is the one that just, primarily, points out how to do the right thing. She is young, she may be among the youngest, but her effects are very good. What else is achieved by the operation of the DRI, it is equalising the criteria of working with finance. You know, while this institution was gone, we all read the laws, we all thought we were doing the best, but when the control goes through and each of the public finance users directs it in the right way, I think that at the level of the entire state, it's evened out or evened out the system of work with finance. I think that's a very good thing. These public finances users can communicate with each other, of course, in a positive sense, in the sense that they do the best. The third thing that is very important to me is that, based on the experience that DRI has gained with its reviews in various institutions of the state, it simply proposes to make appropriate changes to the regulatory and sublegal regulations. It's a very good thing and I think it's one of the most important things that they can contribute to one good work in the future. I see here the report says what is accepted, what is proposed, and not accepted etc. I think that's a very good thing, and that it's up to the authorities who pass, or propose laws, of course, that part of these regulations is being passed in this Assembly, part probably at the government level, part at the level of ministries and other entities, just the experience you carry, I think it gives good suggestions and good solutions. That's what you need to continue, to resist your proposals. In that context, I want to say something and I keep insisting that I simply explain that something that needs to be done and I think we have a similar opinion with the DRI, and that's in the local budget the projected 10% deficit or minus 10%. What does that mean? So if you have the opportunity to make a budget for next year you predict that if your budget is 500 million you can spend another 50 million over that 500 million, of course if you have the funds. What happens if you have more resources, quality ones? Why don't you spend more? It wasn't a practice until now. You know, especially that, the budget is brought at the level of the year, but in small municipalities that have small budgets, let's say that over the next two, three, four years, there's going to be some larger investment where you're supposed to participate as a small municipality with more resources. Of course, if you're a good host, you'll be leaving part of the funds in two, three, four years to use in a third, fourth year for a larger investment in your territory. After you limit it, those 10% that you can't exceed that budget deficit, which is absurd. Therefore, if a municipal budget or a city budget, I primarily think of small municipalities, I said for which reasons, if it regularly serves budget users, it pays all the bills, or the needs normally paid by the budget, if all the commitments or bills are paid, it is zero, as far as accounts and payments are concerned. If you don't have any credits, debts, and you have funds in your account, why wouldn't they allow such a budget to be more than 10% in these special cases? So I suggest we continue to endure on one good, positive thing, because that's why we're raising that community. If we raise certain municipalities and cities, we raise the whole of Serbia. Why would those funds be trapped? They're trapped, we can't use them. We can just leave them at the bank where some interest will be charged, etc. I don't think that should be the ultimate goal of using funds. The funds should be used in the right way, not always in the bank, but in turning through good investments in this Serbia. That's why I think that, and I suggest, we continue to endure, or primarily you, and we as MPs to support such a solution. Here, I'll finish with that, I think you're an institution, welcome everywhere the funds of public finances are used. Welcome and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2157	Thank you. Now the word has been given by MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2158	Thank you, Your Honor. Just to remind my colleagues that we can continue to communicate a little more casually because there is no more direct transmission. So right now RTS is female volleyball Ub-railman. Of course, I want a better team to win, and we want to keep doing this for what we've gathered today. First of all, I have to say, and colleague Deep King, I can see that she has come out, but she has expressed her doubts about her marriage, as her fellow SPS colleague advised, that she will not be able to marry because she expects to find a man, i.e. That it's impossible to find a man who accepts 50% of his homework. Since there are colleagues here from gender equality, I am sure, therefore, despite one such fact that a colleague of the King will. I'm sure she'll find someone who accepts those 50% homework. Today on the agenda, when it comes to these four institutions, there's also a report that we certainly have to, I don't think we have to, we don't have to vote, but I'm sure we'll all vote and we'll adopt those reports. I must commend all four independent institutions. That's for sure. First, compared to political life in Serbia, you are all relatively young as an institution and what I am going to spend a little more time on today is the DRI, since I am a member of the Finance Committee. You may find that growth the easiest to see, because at the beginning of the modest two teams today, you have managed to reach some 13 seriously trained teams to control public sector finances. Certainly, your reports and that your work can contribute to better consideration, above all, of all the business of all these public institutions, when it comes to us MPs who you are obliged to submit such reports. What's the fact is that you didn't just form to attend in all these controls. We've had several conversations like this today, and you've also filed a large number of criminal charges, criminal charges, etc. The practice in some other countries is that the DRI has the possibility, for example, in the Netherlands, not only to provide criminal and criminal charges, but to literally bring a complete process, determine, ultimately pass a verdict. Why am I saying that? You have at one point been having sex with the president of the JS parliamentary group, Dragan Markovic Palm, who tried out of practice, from some political life at the bar to point out certain shortcomings in these controls. One example, for example, was the cleaning of snow, where the city was reported for failing to do well in public procurement. He told you there's not every time an opportunity to do exactly public procurement. We don't know how much snow will fall. We don't know how long the snow will fall, and what's expected of local and city authorities is for the streets to be clean. I'm sure most of the colleagues who run the local government if they have to choose between breaking charges that someone will pay and the streets being clean, believe me, 99% will say – we want the streets to be clean. Also, from your practice which, I say, is not small and you have visited municipalities and cities, I think it's a good thing that you have this experience, especially good experience, not only bad examples, but also good experience, to pass on to your lectures and other colleagues who run municipalities and cities. Certainly, I can commend, and also on one Financial Committee, I have discussed with you, the proposal and the realization of the project that in Jagodina in particular all citizens are driving free of charge and that for this transport in all the territory that has over 100 villages, some cities pay for the transporter, while citizens have to pay for the transport. You agree that this is something that should be recommended to other municipalities and cities. I don't know how much in your ability, but I'd like you to do one analysis when it comes to transfer funds given to municipalities and cities from the level of the Republic. So, the Republic has one particular register that tries to make the best possible schedules for everyone. One example is, let's say, my Vranjska Banja, who gets 80 million a year from the transfer funds, and another city that is our first neighbour, Trstenik, I have no reason not to say, and I welcome my colleague Milena Turk, was our colleague here, and she is leading today as president of Tristenik Municipality, that Tristenik has been around for some ten years now, with 450 million less, more similar parameters that Vranjska Banja has. So, I'm not saying here to anyone who needs to be taken, I'm just saying to make sure that someone else is doing something that's coming to them. What I think should be the accent of my address today is one proposal to the DRI or to the colleagues present here at all that maybe we should think about another independent institution, as much as anyone likes or doesn't. The most important thing is that we all realize that they are exactly one of the mechanisms that we can do a certain level of control. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to try to be as concise as possible, which is to create an independent institution that will deal with the organisation of business within public enterprises. For example, the price of electricity is determined by the state, the energy is determined by the state. When it comes to the price of water, municipalities and cities determine how much the cubic water costs. We have a range of 28 dinars to 100 dinars of water price when it comes to natural persons, not to mention how many legal persons are involved, which means that the same company on the same territory with approximately the same surface of the water network has 50 workers, I say the example, and the other one has 250. Of course, this place with 250 always has to ask for a higher price of water. I think it's one of the mechanisms where we from this level of Parliament could establish a certain level of control. They say what you have to control public enterprises. We have what we can't do. To whom control could do harm. The National Assembly controls the military, controls the police through our boards, why can't we control the work of public enterprises at the level of municipalities and cities? I think it's right, I think we need it. Comrade Arsic, I'd like you to just tell me, why can't you? Control can't bother anyone. So, literally, we can all benefit from that. Since I see my time is up, unfortunately, these are interesting topics, there's a lot to talk about. Once again, I will say that we from the JS parliamentary group will support all four reports. I'll wish you good luck in your work. What Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma said, all of you here together must be available to each citizen. This is not what I'm saying tending to be critical of anyone, neither is he today, but simply, this isn't in public transmission right now, but when it was in direct transmission, it's important that the citizens know that you are, first of all, all open to co-operation with the sama. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2159	Thank you. You've spent your time as a member of your parliamentary group. I ask the MPs not to speak directly to each other anymore. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I guess we as People's MPs have sworn to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and to avoid more of these populist stories about how we want to protect the citizens of Serbia from their public enterprises at local level. We can't do that control. Are we agreeing on the price list of public enterprises where cities and municipalities are? We don't give. Can any price list of public services be applied before the committees who own it give consent? It can't be applied. So we're on a republican level. We control republican companies. The council members of the local self-government assembly control their businesses and do not take that job away from them. It's theirs, it's their community, it's their responsibility, it's their citizens, it's their neighbors. Imagine now that I'm a folk ambassador from the Fireman I'm going to control what the price of water is, say, in Jagodina. How would the president of your party, Dragan Markovic Palma, look at me? You'd tell me, I'm sorry, you're not in charge. You're an MP. Don't mix those two things up. That's why there are, not three branches of government, but three levels of government: Republic, province and local. And if the republic starts to oversee work and autonomous provinces and local self-government, then they lose their meaning. Then we become a classic centralised state that has only one level of government, which is the National Assembly. It's not in accordance with the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I guess we as People's MPs have sworn to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and to avoid more of these populist stories about how we want to protect the citizens of Serbia from their public enterprises at local level. We can't do that control. Are we agreeing on the price list of public enterprises where cities and municipalities are? We don't give. Can any price list of public services be applied before the committees who own it give consent? It can't be applied. So we're on a republican level. We control republican companies. The council members of the local self-government assembly control their businesses and do not take that job away from them. It's theirs, it's their community, it's their responsibility, it's their citizens, it's their neighbors. Imagine now that I'm a folk ambassador from the Fireman I'm going to control what the price of water is, say, in Jagodina. How would the president of your party, Dragan Markovic Palma, look at me? You'd tell me, I'm sorry, you're not in charge. You're an MP. Don't mix those two things up. That's why there are, not three branches of government, but three levels of government: Republic, province and local. And if the republic starts to oversee work and autonomous provinces and local self-government, then they lose their meaning. Then we become a classic centralised state that has only one level of government, which is the National Assembly. It's not in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2162	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2163	You know what, if you've already wanted to go through the Rules of Procedure, all right, Mr. Arsic threw it to me from the scene, I've answered it very culturally, but I don't mind opening a discussion on this subject. So I didn't say that MPs should control it. I doubt they're all dressed enough to be able to do that kind of work. I just said that the DRI gentlemen, in line with their experience and capacity, which, thank God, is increasing, need to think about such a way of controlling. We're not taking anyone's rights here. Control can't hurt anyone. If it's for the citizens, it's our job, Mr. Arsic. That's why we took an oath and I don't see what's wrong with it. We're not going to beat anyone up, but in this case, we're going to point out shortcomings and problems. If we need to open up and fight for jobs, it should not be filling the public sector force, but right now, we should fight for bringing investors, as the president of the state does, as the ministers do, if you want to do it again, and when you mention what Dragan Markovic Palm is doing as well. It's every mayor's job. Bringing investors opens places in the real sector, making it easier for everyone else to do their jobs and to have bigger incomes. Don't get anything wrong with my performance, he's extremely well-intentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2164	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2165	Thank you. I won't answer any more replicas. I appreciate the wish of my esteemed colleague, but you know what? When, as a People's Messenger, you give up at least the acts of your sovereignty will be difficult to bring back again. What you give to someone, you almost never get back. We, perhaps a little over a year ago, have given consent to increase the fees of using highways, speak as a MP, and then transfer it to the level of the council to the local self-government unit, could the DRI have changed or appreciated our decision? Neither, nor the other. He can't. It's not possible. So, don't, under the pretext of control, destroy the sovereignty of our colleagues in the units of local self-government. The State Auditor has the right to control the business of both the republican and local public enterprises, their way of investing, the maintenance of the network, whether it is meaningful or not, and so on, but some of the responsibilities of the Auditor do not exist. Don't deny our fellow councilmen the rights for which the citizens chose them, because then the question of their purpose is asked, nothing else. In the end, these people respond, in some elections in front of their citizens. If they did well, if they had good services, if they provided decent communal fees to their fellow citizens, they would be re-elected, if they do not know what comes next, the political penalty is the disappearance of the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2166	Thank you. (Vojislav Vujic: Replica. No, no, no, It is my discretionary right to decide when to conclude this debate. The replica is rightly given when offensive expressions occur. You were talking to each other by giving it right, I was really open. You'll discuss this at the Finance Committee's session. I know you'll have a few more. (Vojislav Vujic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Please do not abuse, but well, I'll give you two minutes' injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You'll start with a member, quote him, see the Rules of Procedure, explain what I hurt. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2167	Article 106. I'm misread. I said a minute and I really don't want to open the polemics, but just to make a parallel for my fellow Arsic. Let's say there's a Mr. Pasalic here. Mr. Pasalic is someone who was named in the media for a new Bill on the Protection of Citizens, where you had a proposal that the Civilian Protector control the judiciary, not the judges, but the judiciary, and that's parallel to what I'm saying. Here, Mr. Pasalic is here, so answer me the way you saw it, and I'm telling you it will match what I suggested to the DRI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2168	Dear People's MP, you probably thought of Article 104 because, on the 106th, it's the agenda, I mean, we're talking about the agenda, but okay, a missed member. We're concluding a circle of replicas. Do you wish, after you have advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that in the day of the vote, MPs be made known about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vojislav Vujic: No. ) The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2169	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of independent institutions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to refer to the regular annual Report for 2019 submitted by the Commissioner for Protection, or the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, not now in front of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, because this committee is not in charge of reaching a conclusion on this report to the National Assembly, as it has done, so to speak, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, but for another reason, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law has been responsible for conducting procedures for selecting the Commissioners. Recently, we have proposed to the National Assembly and selected you, Mrs Jankovic, to give you further confidence in the new mandate. For this reason, I believe that the debate on the content and essence of the Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is of great importance, because only co-operation and joint work on such sensitive issues as discrimination and equality can lead to results which, of course, will ultimately concern the citizens of Serbia. When I talk about the citizens of Serbia, I mean not only the citizens of Belgrade or the large cities, but I also think about all those in some remote places or villages, who are physically far from the institutions, but it must not mean that they are far from exercising their rights or not to mean that it is logical to suffer or to face discrimination and inequality. In that sense, I can also ask you – how often are complaints from such people that are further away, physically away from institutions or how familiar they are with your competences, in which way might we be able to introduce them to the competencies of independent bodies or institutions that exist in our country, because I suppose that the role of local self-government at that point might even be crucial? And speaking of local self-government, I'd like to say that I think Nis has taken a step further in countering discrimination. Our municipality building was built a long time ago, so it was set up that it was only nearly adapted for disabled people, but that entrance to the municipality made it possible for disabled people to enter the municipality, but they were not allowed to climb to the second, third or fourth floor, so that they could exercise their rights or be interested in the items being taken to public administration officials. I also want to say that thanks to your help, thanks to the Resoring Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and thanks to one committee member, Jasmini Barac, who is a city committee with disabilities and who launched this initiative, this building will adapt to the disabled. The building will get the elevator and they will be able to achieve their rights much easier. I actually wanted to point out in these questions, or examples, which is all things to do, that these are some everyday things that may not mean much from our point of view, but from the point of view of some other people, they mean a lot if we want to keep a certain level in this area that I chose to talk about today. What is very disturbing and what sends an ugly picture is a hate speech that can be seen on certain media and social networks, which is no longer directed solely at President Alexander Vukic, but also at his children, some of us condemn it, but I don't think that's enough anymore, I think they have to react to the competent state authorities, because it's already being questioned by his security and the safety of his family. On the other hand, we have one decision from one of the courts in Belgrade that banned the editors of one portal from publishing information related to the Dragan Gilas affair, which is actually related to the bridge building affair on Ada. I simply wonder how no court or any other state body has ever thought to ban themselves from being brought out and to write atrocity about the children of the President of the Republic? Why, on the one hand, is it normal and correct for the court to deny the information in which Dragan Gilas spent the budget of the city of Belgrade while he was leading Belgrade, and it is not right for all citizens, all children and children of the President of the Republic to be protected from threats, curses and insults? I think it's a terrible thing to have a political fight like that. Of course, some psychological methods are used that they actually want to weaken Alexander Vukic, although they themselves are aware that this will never happen. I think the state authorities should react. Institutions such as the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality should respond as soon as such appears in public, not only in public complaints. If we need to act in parliament, and by changing the Criminal Code or by tightening the provisions of any other law, then we should do our part of the job. Because those who insult and those who turn their heads are the ones who say, it's not about me, it's not about me, it's not about me, but they're the ones who should think that it's them, that, for example, they're being run by the dirtiest media campaign that's been campaigning against Alexander Vukic over the past years. So don't touch the kids and family. Family is a pillar of a society, and in a political arena you can make arguments. The Serbian Progressive Party has always been ready and will always be ready for such a fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2170	Thank you. The next is national MP Sandra Jokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2171	The esteemed chairman, respected members of independent regulatory bodies, fellow MPs and respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have very important agenda points for all citizens of Serbia, especially those belonging to the Roma national minority, which I belong to, and I am proud to say. In this House, I want to point out that to change the image that has been following the Roma for decades. I want to show that there are educated, hardworking people who are able to improve the position of Roma in Serbia. I would like to commend President Aleksandar Vukic, who recognised the problems of this marginalised group and thus enable someone to be found in parliament to represent the views of the Roma national minority. It is necessary that more members of the Roma national minority be involved in the work of the ministries, especially those with touch points with areas defined by the Roma and Roma social inclusion strategy. When I say the ministries, I mean three key ones that are important for the position of this national minority, which are: the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. The highly educated Roma with appropriate competences can also perform the functions of state secretaries, ministerial assistants and associates. Given the fact that President Aleksandar Vukic also proposed to the government that he had more represented members of national minorities who would enter a held administration not only to meet a quota, so that Roma would find themselves in significant positions, but because they were educated and competent to improve and solve a series of problems faced by members of this national minority. I recently read the book “City of Pain, ” written by Matty Camberi. The book is the pain of a boy who has experienced what no child should experience, which is to beg, to depend on others' charity. For this reason, I recommend this book because that is the only way we will be able to move our own borders, and we will be able to understand each other more easily. It is necessary to continue continuing to combat national-based violence, continued action on economic empowerment and the promotion of Roma and Roma women, as well as on access to adequate housing, health and education services, as well as the elimination of discrimination. Discrimination is one form of violence. We can't completely root it out, but we can change it largely through the laws passed. A lot has been done on the issue of the Discrimination Act. Also, addressing the problem of exercising civil rights, to be legally visible, allows for subsequent entry into the Motherbooks of born, citizenship, personal documents and documents. In the past, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done a great deal on human and minority rights, especially through the formation of a ministry that bears the title of human rights in its jurisdiction. I want my exposure today to be just an incentive to both the government and all the citizens of Serbia to continue working together to improve the life and conditions of the Roma community. I am convinced that if we continue at this pace to pass laws, promote and implement them, the position of this community will be improved. Optimism has given me so far steps by the government, but above all, President Alexander Vukic, who is trying to fundamentally improve the standards of life, both of these national minorities and of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2172	Thank you. Since there are no more applicants on the lists, but I'd like to ask them to be brief. Milan Marinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2173	Thank you. I will try really hard to be brief, but I will briefly look back on a few of the comments that some MPs have made, and it is about doing things in my fields. Mr Dragan Markovic Palma said appropriate laws should be passed to facilitate the work of local self-government. Mr. Ambassador Samir Tandir said the laws should be in line with the needs of the local community. Dr. Muamer Bačevac said support for the establishment of local offices by independent state authorities. In that regard, I would only say that I talked to the Minister of State Administration and that the Commissioner plans, if conditions are created, and I hope that you will make such a decision when you vote on the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, to open up regional units in certain local self-governments. Which would be, we will now see, but everyone would benefit from the exercise of rights and would be in favour of decentralisation and we would come closer to the citizens so that we would not have to for every protection of rights in these two areas to address Belgrade. As for the discussion of Mr. Ambassador Nebojša Bakarec, the issue of abuse of the right to free access to information is an ideal opportunity to regulate this particular work on the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Free Access to Information, and we will see that we do so. To Mr. George Komlensky's comment on the portal of the courts, we will pay attention. I don't think there's any problem with getting rid of it. And I'd just like to say a few more words, since I wasn't on board for respect of epidemiological measures when our report was discussed, I'd like to say a few words just about the proposal of the Justice Committee in relation to our report. I absolutely support the proposal for conclusions proposed by the Committee to the National Assembly. I am pleased that my proposals concerning the state of play in the area of free access to information from public importance and data protection have been accepted, that the National Assembly is calling on the Government to make the Law on Free Access to Information as soon as possible change and to improve the strategic framework in the field of data protection and to work on it. I am grateful to the Committee, to say "a posterior" after they have proposed conclusions. In advance, I am grateful to the National Assembly and to the tide, if they support these conclusions, because it will be for the benefit of achieving both rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2174	Thank you. Brankica Jankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2175	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, thank you to all the MPs and MPs for the words of support and the fine words they have given to the institution that I am leading. I will answer a few questions, but in order, as the MPs asked. First of all, the vice president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Elvira Kovac, is not here, but I ask that she be transferred...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2176	She's here, follow her regularly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2177	Elvira, I'm sorry. I just wanted the information, I know that you followed, but we already have on our initiative, the Constitutional Court, for an initiative to assess constitutionality, the Constitutional Court has just assessed a provision relating to the unequal position of women in agriculture and to the lengthy period of the compensation that has been charged, which applied to 24 months or 18 months, in relation to other women, in order to account for income compensation during maternity leave, so we expect the ministry to be removed as soon as possible. It remains a provision that has not been considered, which also refers to an initiative to assess the constitutionality that a parent cannot use the right to maternity leave, if the child is entitled to other people's care and assistance. We say it's about two different tenants. Ms. Selma Kučević and Mr. Samir Tandira's questions are more findings, but the information works, regardless of what happened in 2020, just to say that we were considering the appeal of the Bosniak National Council and found that there was no discrimination and that the Ministry of Education provided teaching in Bosniak language on regional television, so that in Sandzak, our children who are members of the Bosniak national minority can follow in Bosniak language teaching. Also, on the question of Ms Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, which concerns where the biggest number of complaints comes from, whether we recognize outside Belgrade, because I am fully agreed that our citizens live both outside Belgrade and that we are obliged to pay special attention to them. The largest number of complaints received as well as previous years from the Belgrade region, 36%, but last year it was more than 50 in Belgrade, which means we still have progress. Following is the region of Šumadija and Western Serbia, then the region of southern and eastern Serbia, then Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. It remains that we should work more and be more accessible to citizens outside Belgrade, and we have been in contact with Mrs Jasmina Barac Perovic all the time in solving her accessibility problem. I'm glad Nis has solved that problem. I would especially like to refer to the three exhibits that were very important to me and impressive, which is the presentation of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Dubravka King. It was indeed an extremely analytical approach to this subject. I haven't heard from a young woman such an approach and understanding of demographic problems, because whenever we talk about problems of insufficient child birth, as much as we would like to see and correct our demographic structure, we repair it, we always, in a way, talk about women and there's always talk about money, and you've talked about the key thing – synchronizing work and parenting and everything that we and all women and men want, to be achieved both at work and at home. I don't think it's going to be any problem for you as a young woman to say that men need to take on more family obligations, because many of them are already doing it and we would like it to be possible to admit that they are truly good parents. I think men often, sometimes, neglect that role of theirs. Thank you for having dared to talk about this, and thank you for noticing our very comprehensive analysis of the presence of young people. We gave the initiative in 2020. I have here, but I don't have enough time to show you in detail how many young people are actually present in local self-government, but today thanks to the respect of this recommendation, we have this much greater number of young people at national level who participate in decision-making, but also at the level of local self-government. I would like to refer to the presentation of the MP, Mr Marijan Risticevic, whom I have listened very carefully and I would like to say that I condemn an absolute attack on the threat to your safety and the threat, but I think it is very important to realize that I am not personally a prosecutor and I do not have prosecutors sitting here. So I think I'm totally agreeing with you that we should all do our job. One more thing, I don't think there's any need to set up a special institution for peasant protectors. The peasants are also equally equal and very important citizens of our country, and I want to tell you that we have dedicated ourselves especially to this subject, especially to women, and we have made recommendations to increase special incentives for women and young people in agriculture, as well as to relax property conditions to achieve monetary social assistance for our oldest citizens who have been denied the right just because they have 0.5 hectares of land, which means nothing if the country is sparring and if those as older people can't make income, but I agree with you that there is much room for us to pay more attention to it, which in the next two years we will especially work. Also, the presentation of the People's MP, Mr Komlensky, also remained very impressive because he found that our reports were actually about the fates of people, that it was very important that we talk about the fates of people and that somehow human lives and their rights were achieved here. Thank you for that, and I think that in the coming period maybe our reports should be considered separately so that we have the opportunity to talk much more, because it turns out that the independent institutions and the National Assembly are each other and that everyone needs them for different reasons, and I also realized that it is very important to hear and hear and silence, because we are concerned with protecting those who are weakest among us, and sometimes they are not loud enough. So we should all learn to hear silence. In the end, special gratitude and my great respect for MP Sandra Jokovic, who took courage and who particularly points out and wants to say and publicly to highlight his national identity as a Roma woman, because it is important that we have a young woman who is willing to point out that Roma is not equal to the problems, but young, educated people are able, our great wealth with enormous capacities. I think it is very important that you are in the Assembly today because only to the common forces when Parliament truly expresses the real picture of our population and when we all work together to change cultural patterns and create better and more successful and fairer Serbia in which we all want to live, only so together in partnership with each other, and as Mrs. King said, both men and women and all of our national minorities and by respecting all of our differences, we can make that society in which we want to live. In that sense, the Commissioner is available to all of you, not only when we consider these reports, but whenever you think we can discuss any topic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2178	Thank you. Master Zoran Pasalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2179	Thank you very much. First and foremost, Parliamentarian Samir Tandir's answer to the question of a large number of pending complaints. There are claims by some NGOs. No complaints, i.e. addressing citizens, can be answered by flossulas to write some kind of arbitrary findings, and can be answered seriously with the aim of solving citizens' problems. Where possible, the Protector of the Citizens responds immediately. Often and within 24 to 48 hours. Somewhere where it takes a long time or for reasons more complex is a problem or where there was a lack of a statement from the institution that we are addressing takes longer, but that certainly doesn't mean that there are many unsolved cases. The answer of MPs Selma Kučević is that when the National Council of the Bosniak National Minority addressed us, it was in July 2019, we addressed RTS in August. Since we have not received an answer within the deadline, which is an emergency, and we have received an answer to the National Council of the Bosniak National Minority in June 2020. It's about the treatment in that case that's ended up on us. As far as Mr Vojislav Vujic's questions are concerned, and the finding that I am repeatedly criticised for the reason that I felt that it should be in the new law, which is that the Protector of a citizen or an independent institution controls the judiciary, that is because 82% of all the judgments of the Strasbourg court according to the complaints of our citizens refer to the right to a fair trial, to a reasonable trial, to the execution of judicial decisions and thus to one of the outstanding problems that lie ahead and to this Assembly is the length of the proceedings. I must also point out that the Guardian of Citizens will always resist any attack on any institution if that attack is not in accordance with the law. In accordance with Article 8. The public information law and the media all officials, including me, have to say so in a way that is so much like public criticism, but that doesn't mean that you can draw a target at the head of them because the law is very clearly governed by how it is controlled and who is thought that the judge has not done his job adequately. It's governed by the Justice Act. There's also a VSS disciplinary prosecutor. There is a two-stage disciplinary commission that can be addressed by any citizen of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm also saying is that according to Article 3. The law governing courts can't be out of judicial control. On the one hand, I'll always criticise court's impunity. On the other hand, I will always protect their independence. The fourth question, Mrs. Samira Ćosovic, how local self-government reacts according to our recommendations all depends, really cannot draw a unique picture, from local self-government to local self-government. Some respond truly commendably. I can't use your time and patience right now to praise them individually. Someone's not responding at all. Where he doesn't react at all, then the Citizens' Protector goes with his service to that environment to see what the problem is and tries to solve it. It works somewhere, somewhere it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2180	Thank you. Dr. Dusko Pejovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2181	Thank you, Mr. President. I think we set a good example of preserving equality, even more than that because 66% of the employees are ladies in our institution. Thank you to all who have supported in their instant DRI work. I say that on behalf of the employees because the employees are really committed to their maximum activities and on their behalf I thank and just to point out a few things. Although we are a young institution still present, there is a gap in expectation. They're higher expectations than the legal powers we have. Therefore, it is necessary to know the competence of the institution well, the opportunities that an institution can make in relation to what is expected of it. For example, the law has given us an obligation to revise the subjects every year, and for the others it has told us according to an appropriate number, it means according to the possibilities. We can't audit 11,000 subjects. He's at the bar at 6,200. We have five local authorities that we've audited five times so far, some other four times, less than three times, twice, etc. It's not an exact claim that we haven't been in the Shadow for seven years. It's true that between the two reports there were six years, but since we did public procurement in two years, then it's five, and since we looked at the 2017 contract the most, it's four years. We have opportunities that we have planned. The Council shall take a decision, i.e. a review programme in which it shall also decide on entities in accordance with our capabilities. In addition to DRI, there are budgetary inspections, both at local and state level, there is an internal audit. Furthermore, the local government requests agreement from the DRI each year according to Article 92. The budget system law, the consent that if we don't do the audit ourselves, that they hire an independent external auditor. The question is whether he is engaged, which is not being hired, because an integral part of the final account also needs the opinion of the external auditor, when we were in Tutina 2016, doing financial reports for 2015. As for the New Market JKP, the Social Labour Centre, gentlemen, this is today's work report for 2019, and these are 2020 reports. They're done, they're on the site. The problem is in public procurement, in salaries, etc., but we really weren't getting ready for it. That's one thing, and the other individual stuff is in that report. If there's any uncertainty about this answer on any basis, we're ready to get a question, and we're going to be asked to answer the question. I'm going to try to talk to Ambassador Bakarec. Very interesting was his question. We were doing a review of the purpose of giving in the lease of business space in the property of the local self-government unit. We have handled these activities in the city of Belgrade, in all the city municipalities of Belgrade, in the town of Novi Sad and the town of Nis. You know what the indicators are, 16000 units of business space there are, a million and 800 square meters of them taking over. For 2016, 2017 and 2018, the lease-based claims increase by 15%. At the end of 2018, a total of 8 billion and 200 million were not charged on the basis of leases from Belgrade, the city municipalities of Novi Sad and Nisa, 73% of which became obsolete. Out of that, two billion and nine million have the Old Town city municipality, where it's 100% obsolete. These are indicators discovered in the review of purpose. While I'm already on purpose, just to point out, through an industrial waste management audit, we've found that on behalf of imports of used, motor cars, or vehicles, we've only processed them, in five years, the state budget has been damaged by 6.7 billion dinars. The DRI budget cost the state all the time from the start to this year 4.6 billion. We only found this on one audit. So these are invaluable information values that we come up with. In the flood prevention that often attacks, we have a situation that out of the 173 dams we have, only 58 of them are entered into the register, so when they're not registered imagine what they're in, instead of being able to protect them from the floods, they're in danger of floods. We have now had an example of the Goli Dam near Lucan which is in such a bad state that it is a danger to the environment, and it is being led by a farming community in bankruptcy. Many examples that we identify in the review of purpose and we are prepared to do so thanks to the committees with which we really have effective co-operation, we present it. As for the issues that Mr. Marijan Rističević raised in 2005, the Law on DRI was adopted, in 2006, the Constitution was amended where a provision for DRI was introduced, in 2007 the first management was elected, in 2008 the first auditors, and in 2009 the first audit report was the first. Only other audit reports began to come together in 2010, and in the 2011 bar. I ran a team that audited Belgrade City, as the first audit report in the bar, and I did those things. According to the documentation I had, we made a report that's on the website. After that report, we filed nine criminal charges, 16 criminal charges. There are 19 people on one application, etc. All of what you're talking about is not for the auditor, it's a me in anticipation, it's for the investigative authorities, because the review is done the way I pointed out before. I'm sorry, I wouldn't take any more time. For all the ambiguities you have and the questions you have, we are ready and open to co-operation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2182	Thank you. Before we finish, Branko asked for 15 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2183	Thank you, Mr. President, for allowing me to have your gender equality. I just wanted to realize that it's important that although we're not going on a direct transmission of RTS, it doesn't matter to me personally, because I'm here because of you, but I think it's important to say that the transfer isn't working because of women's volleyball. Finally, we have the advantage of a woman's sport that often doesn't deserve enough space on RTS, so just so we know, they're playing Ub Railway. Now, let's end up in a good tone of equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-26-0.u2184	Thank you. There's no excuse for that. I respect women's sports. It doesn't matter if it's male or female, anyway, we have a contract with RTS like all the other users. The truth is, that contract says 6:00, but we pay them 80 million a year. They don't carry this for free, but now it's not a topic. That's the topic for the next budget. Anyway, thank you all. Since there are no more registered MPs, I thank all those who have been present from independent institutions. As you can see, we have singled out your four institutions as the most significant. We don't want to mix them with others, there are others, but some of you are a constitutional category, some of them are a legal category, and they're extremely important, and we wanted to show that it's very important that we have dialogue and communication, that is, to realize our constitutional role, which is that we oversee your work. Therefore, I would ask all of you, do not let the Media Assembly know that you are preparing for changes to certain laws. These laws of yours are passed by the National Assembly, we are representatives of the government for you, you should discuss it with us, not with other authorities of the state administration that you have the right to exercise control over. We control you, report here in time, because the law will not bring you the Government, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm saying because it's not gonna be after a year again of some new amendments to the law, etc. Just in time to talk about it. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 4. I thank you all. You don't have to be around anymore. I set Saturday December 26th at 7:10 p.m. as Voting Day on the agendas of the Second Special Session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 180 MPs are present in the hall at the moment, i.e. most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote - a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government since 16 December. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181, for – 178, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. I put to the vote – a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 17 December 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181, for – 178, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. I put to the vote – Proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government since 16 December 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181, for – 180, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. I put to the vote – a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the European Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 17 December 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181, for – 180, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. I put to the vote – Proposal for a conclusion on the review of the State Audit Institution's work for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 23 November 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181, for – 180, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. We'll be back at 10:00 tomorrow. We've got the ninth session. As we discussed at the college, tomorrow we will have a debate in the principle of proposed amendments and amendments to the laws and international agreements, and the next day we will discuss the proposals for the conclusions of our MPs, members of the Committee on European Integration. Of course, Tuesday's debate is scheduled in detail and voting, if anything else doesn't change, it's a plan for the next three days. The 20th night, so Tuesday night, we close and finish our regular session. Thank you.
