ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the halls, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 182 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As you know, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups may request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1235	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice and Resolute Minister Maja Popovic. Namely, the city of Jagodina and the company “Nort cardboard” d.o.o. Belgrade concluded an agreement on 28 March 2013 to rent 11 hectares, 72 acres and three square meters of land in an industrial zone without compensation. The obligation of North Cards to this contract was to build an industrial facility for two years and employ 150 workers. The "Nort Card" object did not end within the agreed deadline and the city of Jagodina sent more than 10 letters to the "Nort Card" between 2015 and 2017 and with a request for completion of the facility and employment of workers. All this stuff that I'm talking about and contracts and memos can be delivered personally to the competent justice ministry, counting both the contract and all the correspondence between 2015 and 2017. Because of the failure to fulfil the contract obligations of North Cards, the city of Jagodina filed an appeal to the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade on 3 November 2017 for the termination of the lease agreement. On 30 January 2018, North Card filed a complaint against the payment of the amount specified after the skill of 291,324.170,65 dinars and 888,781 euro, based on the amount invested in the start of the facility. I point out that the land of North Card was given without compensation, so by breaking the contract there is nothing to return to it. In this case only the city of Jagodina suffers from the fact that the location in question is occupied by the start and the unfinished facility. I also point out that the facility was built exclusively for the needs of the North Card and all investments that had the North Card were exclusively for their own purposes, not for the needs of the city of Jagodina. The building permit has ceased to apply in the meantime, the facility is now lawless, not listed in the real estate cataster, and as such is intended for demolition. In addition, due to the debts of the “Nort Card” according to the contractors, the solution which adopts the temporary measure and “Nort Card” prohibits alienating or burdening the immovableity of the construction, the facility is subject to public sale by the public contractor. In addition, they may provide the conclusion of a public enforcement body from 16 June 2020. Since the city of Jagodina has this situation in practice, I have to ask you a parliamentary question to clarify it, which is of interest to all the citizens of Jagodina, or I am asking you a question for the next legal matter. In the case of an investor who is granted land without compensation for the purpose of building a factory under a contract concluded with a municipality, or a city, and for the employment of a certain number of workers, and if the same, or the investor, fails to comply with the contractual provisions and does not build a planned investment within the agreed period, i.e. giving up the same, municipality or city has the right to terminate the contract without compensation? Is the municipality, i.e. the city, obliged to pay the investor a fee for part of the facility that the investor built on the plot in question? I request legal interpretation and the Ministry's position on this issue, and any documents necessary, if necessary, may be delivered personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1236	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Selma Kučević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1237	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I ask my question to the minister of justice, Mrs Maja Popovic. The reform of the judiciary that was implemented in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which began on 1 January 2019, according to the Law on the Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, established the Criminal Court in Novi Pazar for the city of Novi Pazar and the territory of the municipality of Tutin, and with the Department of Tutin. Also, a basic court was formed in Novi Pazar, and within it a judicial unit in Tutin. A public municipal prosecutor's office has been suspended and established in Novi Pazar for the territory of the town of Novi Pazar and the municipality of Tutin. Since it has been decades of work under this judicial organisation, we have spoken several times to this Parliament, also to the government, to the ministers and to all the other authorities, but so far we have not come to an understanding. Analysing the advantages and disadvantages that have been shown for this time, a request for the establishment of an independent infringement court for the territory of the Tutin municipality, the basic court for the territory of the Tutin municipality, as well as the municipality’s public prosecutor’s office for the territory of the Tutin municipality can be justified. In addition to that, the following arguments are made. Namely, for both types of courts, as well as for the municipal public prosecutor's office, there are quite enough cases, as well as for the independent functioning of these courts and for the necessary burden of each judge individually. It should also be noted that the courts are equipped with a court building, as well as with all necessary equipment for the self-functioning of them. I must point out that a certain number of judges, as well as other workers, travels daily or several days a week to Novi Pazar, with this road infrastructure far too well known, whose reconstruction is likely to be transferred to the next two years, which further affects the increase in funds and costs. In practice, it has indeed proved to be an extremely bad solution to the current organisation of the judiciary, since communication between the seat of the court and the judicial unit, i.e. the Tutin municipality department, is difficult. Also, for administrative reasons, all claims, all written acts relating to the Tutin department, must be physically delivered to the court in Novi Pazar for seduction and then delivered physically to the judicial unit or department in the Tutin municipality. Also, all written acts taken, decisions, solutions, judgments and all other acts must be delivered to the headquarters in Novi Pazar for divorce in the main register. It's all a really big area to be delivered through regular mail. If we take into account the geographical features and characteristics of the Tutin municipality, which belongs to an extremely large municipality, one of the larger municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, which stretches over 741 km square, it is a hill-mounted area, extremely dissociated, so the settlements are remote, both from the Tutin municipality, and I'm telling you all of this for a reason why if one of these parties that is extremely far from the Tutin municipality has confirmation that they are not convicted, then they have to go 80 km in one direction only, so 160 km in both directions. Not to mention this winter period, when all these areas are literally cut off because of extremely bad climate conditions and strong and harsh winters. The Tutin municipality is located in the south-west of the Republic of Serbia, thus bordering Montenegro, as well as Kosovo. The border line with Montenegro and the administrative line with Kosovo, I am free to say, is the source of many illicit actions that can be qualified as commercial offences, violations, and criminal acts, and in any case, it is on the judicial authorities that they are urgently acting in such procedures. In fact, if we, as a democratic society, want to make justice available to all citizens of this country and to provide protection to citizens, protection of public order and peace, public security, public order, in general, it will be far more effective if there is an independent basic court in the Tutin municipality, a criminal court and a public prosecutor's office for the territory of the Tutin municipality. I don't see a reason, if in neighbouring municipalities, even smaller municipalities, there are these courts, then why should the citizens of this municipality be discriminated against on any basis? From the above, I ask the Minister of Resort – will he, in what way, bring justice closer to all the citizens of this country, and return the courts and the public prosecutor's office to the citizens of this municipality? It is certainly a municipality that belongs to the order of the most underdeveloped and poorest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1238	Thank you. The People's Messenger Tom Phil has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the people who live in Serbia, both of the questions I want to ask the president of the Assembly and my party president, in the spirit of all that we in the Socialist Party of Serbia are doing, and this is the question of whether you, as president of the Assembly, will give the initiative that MPs have a mandatory agenda every month or in two months that would refer to our southern province? There is no point in the UN Security Council having this as a permanent topic, you were there as foreign minister, protesting the number of sessions decreased, and we in the Serbian Parliament as if we were not concerned by the province, we do not have a permanent presence. I want to remind you that in Kosovo and Metohija, various things are happening, which are important to us. The trial of the alleged murderers of Oliver Ivanovic began. Is that what we need to find out from TV? I want to know what's going on with that trial. We have a Committee on Kosovo, which could, every month, or for two months, however you want, give us a report, oral or written, on the state of the province. Also, you're witnessing that they've been arrested and carried out at The Hague by six U.K. members. I think we need to know what kind of co-operation with the D.A.'s office is, what are we doing about it? It's necessary, gentlemen and ladies, to look people in the eye, if we hadn't forgotten the southern province. The second question is addressed to you, Mr. President, as well as to the Prime Minister. Our head of the parliamentary group, Gjorge, was asking a question when the government was on Thursday, but that answer is not satisfactory for us. We haven't heard of the government thinking of forming a body that will take care of the trial of witnesses and victims? You know, I'll tell you something. I don't like to talk about myself, but from 1996 to 2014, I was sitting in that ad hoc tribunal, your secretary was a witness. It's an anti-Serb court, and it was terrible what we went through, especially the ones we defended. First Croatia, Bosnia and then we, then Kosovo. You know, it's anti-Serbia, that they're against us, that's what we're used to, but what I'm protesting and what I don't want to get used to is that our own country isn't helping us. All Croatian defenders are paid by Croatia. Haradinaj, Limaj and the others are paid I don't know by whom. We worked for money from the tribunal and, I repeat, we had no help until this authority arrived. The first to help us was you, as interior minister and Ljajic. If it wasn't for Ljajic, I'd never have got the papers. We received documents from the D.A.'s office, because our country, especially under DOS, wasn't interested in what was going on with us there. They gave the papers to the trucks, the bags from the department stores, who later charged us, and we couldn't win. You know, it's terrible when you enter The Hague tribunal, so first you see the office of Natasha Kandic, which passes through the tribunal as well as through his apartment. She had the same status with our war crimes prosecutor. And where are we in this? I'm not complaining. I'm not a man who's ever cried...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1240	Mr. Ambassador, it's been five minutes. I know you're a lawyer so you can talk for an hour, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1241	I'm sorry, I only end up with one sentence. I don't want that to happen, that it doesn't happen this time, that our witnesses are killed and that we don't have the support of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1242	Thank you. Since questions have been asked to me, but also to the government, of course, I will not answer everything that Thomas said, but the general state will certainly help our organised approach, this new court, because this is not the same court that was in The Hague. This is the KLA crime court and the situation a little different than it was last time. It also remains an obligation to prepare documents and to protect witnesses and everything else in general in order to help bring justice to Serbian victims as well. As the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic said, we will certainly have the Kosovo and Metohija topics on the agenda of our plenary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. Let's move on. MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1243	Dear President, honourable colleagues, MPs and fellow MPs, I have three questions today, and I would like to ask three or three answers from the competent institutions, and they are encouraged by all of what happens in the previous period and what we are all witnesses. My first question concerns the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, and I ask it as someone who witnessed everything that was happening in the previous period, but I am also more interested as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia – do they see anything controversial in the media that has been directly controlled by Dragan Gilas since last week run an organised campaign, a hickey against MPs in the National Assembly of Serbia? Do they see anything controversial that this house and everyone who is in it, so whether it was in the position of position or opposition, satanicizing, insulting, demeaning, calling the worst names possible and trying to discredit it in every way possible? What is particularly interesting, following all these shows, I noticed that each of the MPs who spoke and asked questions about the malversions of Dragan Gilas was dragged through the worst possible mud. Now the question is raised – is that how these media and Dragan Gilas are trying to scare us all here so we don't ask him where 619m euros from or not to ask where his brother Gojk Gilas 35 apartments came from? So, I'm just wondering if anyone in that body sees anything controversial in this campaign that's been going on for two weeks, and it's defined itself, and it's been experiencing its spike in the last seven days, and that's how the print media, which is directly controlled by Dragan Gilas, allows itself to present the MPs like this. I take this picture, i.e. I can't even describe cartoons out of courtesy. Serbian citizens know what's in here, but I just want to know if anyone sees anything controversial in this. As for Dragan Gilas, my second question has been raised by everything that has happened in the past few days. We asked the question - will the competent institutions respond to his brother having 35 properties estimated at 5.5m euros? What now broke out in the first plan, and what my colleagues and I were talking about a long time ago, is the Adi bridge affair, so I'm just curious – will the competent institutions examine the documents that appeared in which it clearly appeared that Dragan Gilas paid for consulting services only in one transaction of 2.5m euros to a company that deals with the sale of ships and spare parts, and that no other ship was bought, and they couldn't even participate in those construction works? I'm just curious -- why are those 2.5m euros paid and will the competent institutions examine it? At the very end of the last question that may be most important, we're asking it persistently over the past sessions in a circle, but we're not getting an answer, have the competent institutions examined all the information that Caba Der brought to Hungary, where he admitted that two mob organizations offered him money to kill Alexander Vukic? Has anyone dealt with it, asked for further information or asked a question, asked for an additional explanation from that hit man? I also didn't get any information, nor did I find her anywhere that Srdjan Nogo got any call for calling on one of the media to kill President Alexander Vukic's family, and his parents, as well as the youngest son who doesn't have three and a half years old? So, on these issues, I demand an answer and only this because of the citizens of Serbia who are asking daily for answers or any court process I ask the question that we know what we can tell the citizens and that the citizens here hear what is going to happen and what is going to happen. Serbia is a free country. In Serbia, human rights are guaranteed to all, but the only rights are being violated by Aleksandra Vukic and all of us with whom Gilas is being counted daily through his media. I would ask for answers to these questions or information to make it clear to everyone once again that Serbia is a free country in which elections are coming to power, and I don't know what kind of bloody scenarios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1244	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic, Marijan Risticevic and Djordje Komlenski. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed that the draft Decision on granting consent in the Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2020 be put on the agenda of the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 187, for – 175, did not vote – 12. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The SPAS Parliamentary Group has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 176, did not vote – 10. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 177, did not vote – nine. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 177, did not vote – nine. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 187, for – 179, did not vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1. Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, Proposal for a Law on the grant of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of United Credit Bank Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Skialstations of Serbia" Belgrade, under the Treaty on Long-term Investment Credit for the Construction of the Brzeća Gondola – Mali Karaman, Proposal for a Decision to give consent to the Decisions on Amendments and Supplements of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2020. 2. Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodian Hungarians, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy of Hungarians, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy of Hungarians. I guess MP Martinovic won't talk about it. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: a total of 188, for – 181, did not vote seven. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate under Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 189, for – 181, did not vote eight. I find that the National Assembly of Most Votes established the agenda of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020 as a whole. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. 1st draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2021, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2021, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2021, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2021 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2021, 2. Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Debt Act, 5. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Unity Bank of Serbia a.d. of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise of Serbia under the Treaty on a long-term investment loan for the construction of the Brzece Gondola – Mali Karaman, 6. Proposal for a decision to give consent to Decisions amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2020. Seven. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPAS Parliamentary Group, 8. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, 9. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, 10. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings of Sinis Mali, Finance Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs, Saša Stevanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Darko Komnenic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Ana Jovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Milesa Marjanovic, Head of Finance Department, Olivera Ružić Poparić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Dragan Nesic, Ela Ki Simic and Mirjana Lukic, independent advisers at the Ministry of Finance. Point 1. – Proposal for a budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2021, with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension disability insurance for 2021, a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2021, a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund, military insurance for 2021 and a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2021. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Before opening a principled and unique search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. Given that we have defined that when the debate on the budget is on the agenda, the time proposed for the debate to be doubled, I have suggested on that behalf a long debate in principle, i.e. that the time of debate for parliamentary groups is 10 hours. This proposal is being decided by the National Assembly without a search, so I invite you to vote on this proposal. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Thank you. I am stopping the vote: a total of 187, for – 166, did not vote 21. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Before I open the search, I would just like to inform you that today we are at a session of the College, a regular session that we hold every Tuesday, agreed that today we will have a principle search and a single search on the 1st point of the agenda, means a draft budget. That, in line with the proposal that Dr Aleksandar Martinovic proposed to combine certain points of the agenda, tomorrow we will have two joint discussions on these several laws and another joint debate on the proposal of the board members to continue the debate, since there are several amendments to the budget and there is one amendment that seems to me to amend the Budget System Act. Then we would continue the debates in particular Thursday and afternoon, after the end of that debate, it would be a day to vote, i.e. to decide on all these agenda points. I wanted to inform you at the beginning of this session so that you could all plan your activities in the next three days. We'll be here next week, if God will, continue hanging out with our minister who's most often been in the Assembly, Sinisha Mali. I hope it's for his pleasure, not just ours. We will have a session next week with agenda points concerning the adoption of certain laws on which public hearings will also be organised by the committee responsible, led by MP Aleksandra Tomic. So we're going to have very dynamic activity by December 29th at midnight, when the regular session is over. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, pursuant to Article 157(1) and Article 192(3). Rules of Procedure, I am opening a principled and uniform search on the 2021 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the RFPIO for 2021, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the 2021 Army Insurance Fund and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2021. Proposer's representative, the finance minister will speak first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1245	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is today perhaps the most important document we will discuss for the next few days, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2021. Before I start talking about budget details, I'd like to say if you'd let me make a brief retrospective of everything that's been going on this year, because exactly the 2021 budget comes from all the circumstances, from all the events that happened to us in 2020. So, if you remember, at the end of last year, so in 2019, the Republic of Serbia, after four or five years of fiscal consolidation, of the difficult reforms launched by President Vukic while still President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, entered our GDP's high growth zone. Every single macroeconomic indicator was more than good for us. In the last quarter of last year, the growth rate of our economy was 6.1% in 2019. We continued the high growth rate in the first quarter of this year and despite the pandemic of the coronary virus, despite the closure of our economy in the second half of March of this year we had a rate of growth of 5.1%. So, the difficult fiscal consolidation measures, the heavy reforms, came into fruit, and Serbia went to high and stable rates of growth before the pandemic of the virus. There was a pandemic of the coronary virus and we were fighting on two fronts. We fought to preserve our economy, we fought to preserve the lives of Serbian citizens. When the economy is on a timely, decisive, more than precise support measures for our economy, we have come out with a package, from now on over 700 billion dinars, so six billion euros, 12.7% of our GDP. We have singled out so much money, honourable MPs to help our economy, to help the citizens of Serbia to mitigate the negative consequences of the pandemic of the coronary virus. Let me remind you, these are three full minimum earnings for a million and 50,000 employees working in the private sector. There is an additional 60% of the two minimum earnings we also paid for the same number of employees. By the end of the year, we have a minimum salary payment for all those, one minimum earnings, for all those who work and who are employed in the catering sector and in the tourism sector. All of Serbia's aged citizens have been paid 100 euros in aid in money paid on the day it was promised over six million citizens of Serbia. I just want to remind you that it was an aid that had an extremely good effect on our economy, because this is precisely why we helped and maintained a level of economic activity during this year, which is witnessed by a good VAT inflow into our budget. Not to forget, two billion euros guarantee schemes with business banks, a billion and 450 million have already been used. This guarantee scheme will extend to half next year. I call on all our businesses, small, medium-sized enterprises, take these liquidity loans, the state guarantees them. The Development Fund came up with 200m euros in 1% loans, hence cheap loans, already paid 100m euros. The National Bank has come out with a moratorium to pay for a four-month loan throughout the year. We've cut the reference rate. So we did everything that was necessary for our economy to survive. We helped hotelers, we increased the employees of health care institutions pay in April of 10%, we gave all healthcare workers 10,000 dinars, one-time assistance last month. We gave our oldest citizens one-time aid in April of 4,000 dinars, here in December, in just two weeks on December 18th we will pay exactly 5,000 more for all of our oldest citizens, for all of our pensioners, there are millions and 717 thousand in Serbia according to data from October. So, most of all, we help those who need our help most, and here the honourable MPs of our country have shown, your state, shown their strength. So, after four years of surplus in the budget, after the difficult reforms of fiscal consolidation, after the high growth rates we had before the pandemic of the coronary virus, we had enough power, we had enough money to react in the right way, not only Siniša Mali says so, the IMF says, so does the European Commission, and when they ask you how justified these measures are, have at least one piece of information in your head, which is that the Republic of Serbia, that our country will have the smallest GDP drop in all of Europe this year. So these measures have resulted in what has never happened before, which is that our economy shows how resilient it is, how strong it is, how strong it is and how responsible economic policy can respond to the crisis. One piece of information, which is very important to all of you, so this year we're going to have our GDP somewhere between zero and minus one, we're going to see how we're going to go. All other countries, much more developed countries, are in much, much greater depth than we are, and if we hadn't gone with these measures, if we hadn't gone with this kind of support of our economy, according to the projections we did together with the NBS, in the second quarter of this year, our decline in economy would have been 15%, and the decline in the whole year would have been at least 6%. We, honourable MPs, have avoided this scenario, that blackest scenario falls in economic activity. You do not have the opportunity in Serbia to see mass layoffs and factory closures, the closure of arbitrary facilities, as you have the opportunity to see in some other much more developed countries. There is no such thing, and that is why I am very proud of President Vukic's policy, on the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy, on your support here, because we have managed to show that we can during the crisis period, and this is not the first crisis that has hit our country, to be the best in Europe. So we should continue this budget, and I come slowly to the budget, is just about what the IMF says, as the European Commission says, that we will be the best in Europe for the next two years when the growth rate of our economy is in this particular respect, you should look at the budget for 2021. A budget that has two distinctly strong components. One is a social one aimed at raising the standard of living for Serbian citizens, raising salaries, raising pensions. The second one's about investment, capital investments. Dear MPs, we will never invest more money than next year in capital investment in health care, health infrastructure, travel infrastructure, railways, anything that raises the quality of life of Serbian citizens and just push our GDP forward. When I talk about the exact results, I'll read it, and then I'll start telling you about the other details that are about the budget. So the total incomes and revenues provided for in the 2021 budget are 1.336 billion. This is an increase of 3.5% compared to the amount foreseen by the 2020 budget rebalance. Total expenditures and expenditures were planned at 1.514.8 billion dinars, down from 14.63, nearly 15% compared to the same 2020 rebalance from November. Projected deficit 178.5 billion, so we projected the deficit to 3%. This is the level that allows us, on the one hand, to single out record money for salary increases, raise pensions, for capital projects, and on the other hand, to keep our public debt level against GDP under control. No, just to keep him under control, the Racio, or public debt, will be further reduced by the end of 2021. When we talk about the social component of the budget next year. So, in the budget for the next year that's ahead of you today, there's money to raise pensions for all of our oldest citizens per so-called. The Swiss formula, as promised, is how we fulfilled our promise to the pensioners. This increase, therefore, will increase every pensioner's check by 5.9% from January 1st next year. Not only are pensions safe, they're safe, we're paying them off the day they're due, but we're also increasing them despite the pandemic of the coronary virus, given the needs and interests of our oldest citizens. Once again to take advantage of the opportunity, thank you very much for everything they've been through with us, what they've been through with us during the last period of reform. Also, we're going with a pay increase in the public sector. Five percent increase for our healthcare workers since January, for all the other 3.5% and for everything else will be a 5% increase as of 1 April, plus an additional increase for our soldiers, so despite the pandemic of the virus's coronary, we go with the increase in wages in the public sector. Let me remind you, what President Vukic said, our priority is project "Serbia 2025". A large number of investments from the project are in the budget for next year, but what is most important perhaps is that we do not give up the goal of making the average salary in our country of 900 euros by the end of 2025, the average pension of 430 euros. That's why we're going with these increases that, apart from directly affecting the standard of living of Serbian citizens, because, let me remind you, inflation is about 1.5-2%, so in real terms of growth and pensions and wages, that's important for our economy. It is a very important principle where you maintain the level of demand, therefore, that people have money to buy goods, buy and acquire things that are necessary for our production activities to grow and, of course, affect the growth of our GDP. The third thing that's very important when it comes to the social component of the budget, it's an increase in minimum earnings. The government of the Republic of Serbia has decided that minimum earnings, minimum wages, will rise by 6.6% from January 1st next year. I'll remind you, in 2012, the minimum profit was about 15,000 dinars. This year and next year, so from January 1st, 2021, the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia will be over 32,000 dinars. So, for eight years, despite the fiscal consolidation measures and the reforms we've been through, more than double the minimum profit. What we want to do, too, to facilitate employers, in the budget for next year you also have an additional reduction in payload by 0.6%. As you know, two years ago, we made a promise that every year we would reduce the burden on profits, reduce those taxes and contributions, to encourage the development of the labour market, to reduce the grey economy in the area. The promises we made back then, we stick to them. So I say once again, despite the pandemic of the Coronal virus and the world's greatest economic crisis, we're not giving up on our principle, which is that we're going further downsizing the payload. So these are very important elements relating to the social component of the budget for next year. I don't know if there are any countries, probably on the fingers of one hand can count, countries that will have such a strong social component and take care of their citizens despite the pandemic of the Coronus virus over the next year. When it comes to investments, 330 billion dinars, 5.5% of our GDP, you have capital investments in your budget, honourable MPs, who are standing before you today. And to read that, just so I don't get the wrong number, you have an additional 28.3 billion dinars in your budget that are transferred to local self-government units, to mandatory social security funds and to invest in these areas. So, if those two figures were to add together, we would get to the amount of almost 6% of our GDP that we point to infrastructure and capital investment. So, one amazing number, to give you comparisons only for the sake of the data, in 2012, the participation of public investment in GDP was 3.1%. Then it's even getting a little smaller and everyone's telling us you need to get to a minimum of 5 - 5.5% to be sustainable. Despite the pandemic of the Coronal virus, despite the crisis, we find enough space in our budget where we go with huge capital investments. Why? Two are basic reasons. First, I think you all see and all Serbian citizens notice when driving new highways as safe as possible. No one can say that President Vukic failed to deliver on the promise he made when we made and finished the Milos highway, the large and eastern arms of Corridor 10 towards Bulgaria and the southern arms towards Northern Macedonia. So, roads are reconstructed in Serbia, highways are being built in Serbia. In the past five years, we've built at least 350km of new highways. These investments, road infrastructure, investment in railway infrastructure, attract foreign direct investment, encourage domestic investors to invest as well. So, industrial parks develop along the highways, industrial zones develop along reconstructed railway lines, goods flow faster, cars, trains are safer, and this affects our economic growth. According to information we have from the National Bank of Serbia, this year, by the end of the year Serbia will have a total inflow from foreign direct investments of 2.3 billion euros. I'll remind you, 2.3 billion euros, in the last three years we've been absolute records, even twice in those three years, the Financial Times, the most respected financial magazine, has declared us number one in the world when compared to our GDP and population numbers, number one in the world that attracts the most foreign direct investment. That tells you enough how much Serbia has changed. On the other hand, this year that is most difficult tells you that with 2.3 billion foreign direct investment Serbia is absolutely dominant in the region. For Serbian citizens, this means security, new factories, new jobs, but for us, the obligation to invest even more in the development of road infrastructure, railway infrastructure and all that is important for the quality of life of Serbian citizens. In order to keep something in the budget for next year, you have the money to continue working on the Moravia Corridor, you have the money to continue the work on the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica highway, you have the money to start the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor, you have the money for Iverak-Lajkovac which is already working to continue the work, you have the money for the highway Sremska Raca-Kuzin. In the spring we are also going to build a highway from Nis to Merdar, the first part of 33 kilometers, Nis-Pločnik. So that's what we've provided the money for. Spring is where the work comes in. Next year we also finish the railway line, the fast track of Belgrade-Novi Sad. What we dreamed and dreamed of, in 35 minutes to get from Belgrade to Novi Sad, that's what we'll be able to do by the end of next year. There's money in the budget to build the subway. So, we move by the end of next year and with the construction of the subway, which is a major infrastructure project for the city of Belgrade, but also a huge chance for the development of our economy, because there will be dozens, hundreds of domestic enterprises, thousands of domestic workers and another great chance, as Belgrade on the water has been a great opportunity and still is, for the development of our economy. In next year's budget, you have big investments in health care. It's a special subject and I'm going to talk a lot about it today. There are a few things I want to mention now in this opening address, and then I'm going to go into detail. What is very important, honourable MPs, this year, is the second fight we fought, the fight for health care, the fight for the lives of people. Given the pandemic of the coronary virus, this struggle continues. I want to take the opportunity to thank all medical professionals, all doctors, all nurses, all those who, day and night, have been working for eight or nine months to have as few negative consequences as possible in people's health. There's some information I'm particularly proud of. There may not be a country, except China, given the examples we have, which has built two completely new hospitals. Dear ladies and gentlemen, according to what President Vukic defined in August of the month, 1 December, 2nd or 3rd, two brand-new coves of hospitals were completed. So, in just four months, we've completed two hospitals and these hospitals are currently receiving patients. If you look at the situation we were in, it was an extremely wise move, an extremely clearly defined decision for the right reason, which is that our capacities are increasing, as you can see at the right moment. I also want to thank the president for this initiative, and on the other hand the citizens of Serbia, because these two hospitals are their success. We have allocated almost 100m euros from the budget for the equipment and construction of the two hospitals, which is precisely thanks to the consolidation and sound finances we have at the moment. When you look at the salaries, it's one of the topics that's important to my budget for 2021, I've heard a few criticisms about it, and it's the biggest criticism of the Fiscal Council, they say -- you haven't paid attention to wages and pensions, you've raised your salaries and pensions a lot since the economy is ours. My answer to that is very clear – you are not, gentlemen, rightly, our priority is to increase wages and raise pensions, with the retention of macroeconomic stability and in no way endangering this macroeconomic stability by paying and increasing wages and pensions. On the other hand, let me ask all of you, so do they tell us that young people are always leaving us, what we are going to pay for, raise our wages. And to reward, motivate, or thank all the employees of medical institutions, hospitals, health homes for all the efforts and day-to-day work they have made and who are doing, heroic work this year? Well, just as the state can, better equipment, medicines and everything else, but also an increase in wages. Our policy is that when we have space, when there are opportunities we will increase the wages. In 2011, I have accurate data in October of a nurse in Serbia earning 34,000 dinars, some over 34,000 dinars, this year over 58,000 dinars, an increase of 64%. So we want to keep it at a time of fiscal consolidation, so we want to keep the young, we want to keep everything to stay in Serbia, to make their dreams come true here, we want to attract people from other countries to come to find the country. We have to do this by building new kindergartens, new hospitals, new highways and increasing wages. Which, for you to know and all citizens of Serbia, the growth of public sector wages is followed by the growth of wages in the private sector. I've got accurate data on this, and it's a discussion we can have today. As far as investment goes, let's not forget the environmentals. It is very important for Serbian citizens that environmental package, the green economy that we are constantly talking about. We planned a large number of projects in the 2021 budget that are related to the area of environmental protection, the construction of new regional waste management systems. It is a project that will be implemented in eight units of local self-government, a total of 121m euros, the construction of new waste water treatment plants and a sewer network that will be implemented in 28 local self-government units, a project worth 200m euros. Finally, in the Kragujevac heat, we will replace the existing solid fuel boiler room, we will move on to environmentally acceptable fuels, an investment of 20m euros. Perhaps the biggest project that we expect next year, the signing of the contract, is to go into mass and mass work to build a shortage of sewage and waternets and wastewater treatment plants. To that end, we're spending the next five years of 3.2 billion dollars. It is usually a project that is part of "Serbia 2025", a promise we made and, for the next year, in the spring of 70 local self-government, we expect works, mass works as we have promised that every household in Serbia by the end of 2025 has a water connection, has a sewerage connection, that each local self-government has a waste water treatment plant, so the environment and future of our children here in focus, and that is part of the budget for 2021. When we talk about agriculture, we can discuss this in more detail, the total allocations for agriculture are 59.7 billion dinars, which is about 5.2% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and an increase of 3.6 billion dinars compared to 2020. I'm talking about a common number here, which is about the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture. As far as health care is concerned, I did, I skipped what is very important to me, not to forget the most important projects, the Clinical Centre in Belgrade ends next year, KC Vojvodina in Novi Sad, KC in Kragujevac should go to work. Now I'm going to read you the projects that are related to the health care area for next year, and where the contracts are already signed. So, equipment for the Institute of Mother and Child “Dr. Vukan Čukić”, equipment for the Institute of Oncology, works on Dedinj II, works in Arangelovac General Hospital, works at Loznica General Hospital phase II surgical-gynological block, works at the Institute for Infectious and Tropic Diseases in Belgrade, works in Vrbas General Hospital, works in Surdulica General Hospital, KCV Novi Sad, Home of Health Novi Sad, 800 million dinars in Novi Sad to reconstruct their House of Health. Further, Home of Health in Valjevo, Home of Health in Veli Gradište, Home of Health Vranjačka Banja, in the Royal Institute of Public Health, Home of Health Majdanpek, Smederjevska Palanka General Hospital 300 million dinars of works, Smederjevska Palanka General Hospital phase II also 90 million more for the design of phase II. Vranje General Hospital, Kikinda General Hospital Works, Pirot General Hospital, Publishing General Hospital, 22 health institutions, contracts already signed, and the works will either start or start soon. I've got more and I'll read it to you at some point, otherwise the total value of these works is 15.2 billion dinars, and I have other large lists here of health homes, general hospitals, health institutions where the technical documentation is being prepared, where the negotiations are being conducted on funding and where we can start with the work at the end of the next or early 2022. So, firm commitment, this is very important for the citizens of Serbia, is further investment in health, further investment in buying and getting good modern equipment, medicines and everything that makes our health system stronger. I don't need to remind you, read and see, the strength of the countries, their strength, when we speak politically and economically, is no longer just about the economy, but also about the resilience and strength of the health system. Much more developed and larger countries have failed the exam when it comes to the crown, and the Republic of Serbia is not. Our country isn't. One interesting piece of information, you heard the president talking about it, the level of hospitalisation in our country is the largest in Europe, between 12 and 38% of all patients who come to the hospital, stay there and receive it. In Germany, you know, that percentage is between 1% and 4%, in Croatia, in Slovenia that are also well held there, and in our country between 12% and 38%. So, a large number of people, a large number of patients are being admitted to our health institutions, it's a huge pressure on health care institutions, a huge pressure on our healthcare professionals, and that's why we fully support them when it comes to the increase in medical wages, and on the other hand, these huge investments in health infrastructures in hospitals, in health homes and in the purchase of new equipment. In the budget for next year, when it comes to education and culture and sport and tourism, you have a large number of projects, I don't know how much to go into details now, because we're going to have a debate all day and I'm going to stay completely open to any of the questions that you have in this regard. What is important is that we plan 500 million dinars in the field of tourism, vouchers for all citizens of Serbia, we will not give up on that. You have a large number of programmes that are related to young people, when it comes to sport you also saw for yourself that we have made a decision over 10m euros to support sport and a dozen days ago that decision was made, so for individual clubs, individual alliances, that is huge support to our sport, our Olympics too. On this side, the state has shown that it can be comprehensively and targeted to deal with certain areas that are very important for quality and for the results that we achieve. So, when the budget is up for 2021, and I'm going to end up, we're going to develop, to strengthen our health system, to the social component of pay increases, to increase pensions, by maintaining macroeconomic stability, we're going with a level of deficit that is fully sustainable, which gives us the opportunity to reduce the participation of public debt in GDP to an even lower level than this year and that gives us the right to project a 6% growth rate for the next year which is not low, but is available if we all try to make all of these projects that are in the budget, do and end in the right way, and to create an additional space for 2022, 2023, 2024, and all next year, because Serbia needs to grow faster and faster, to get back to those growth rates that we had until just eight months ago, until before the root of the virus. I hope you will support this draft budget. I'm staying at your disposal for all the questions you can have about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1246	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? When I say that, I mean a letter to Alexander Tomic. Does he want as a reporter or as an authorised representative of the word? (Alexandra Tomic: As the Committee's rapporteur. ) The word is Aleksandra Tomic, as rapporteur of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1247	Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, for my colleagues who may not have followed the Committee's session yesterday, I would like to say that, unanimously, all present members of the Committee supported the draft budget, as well as all accompanying laws. At the Committee's session for the first time, we had a broad discussion. In addition to the finance minister, who is always proposing budgets and changes and additions, when it comes to rebalancing, there is always the President of the Fiscal Council, because under the Law on the Budgetary System, Article 92 speaks of the fact that at the proposal of the budget or the rebalancing board giving its assessment of the Fiscal Council as the advisory body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What we always have as one debate, the elements of the budget are the subject of each of us as a member of Parliament, but based on the presentations that we receive both from the Minister and from the President of the Fiscal Council. At yesterday's session, we also called on the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorganko Tabakovic, because we felt it was very important to see the budget to participate and someone who created the monetary policy of the Republic of Serbia, after all, and the part relating to inflation itself and this inflow of foreign direct investment, we were very interested, since they have the best information about it. We also called on the president of a advisory co-ordination body formed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which monitors GDP growth according to different methodologies that are in line with both the European Commission and international financial institutions, Mr Miladin Kovacevic. We really had something to hear in that debate. First, the documents that we are getting that represent the evaluation of the Fiscal Council on all this you have heard now in the budget presentation for next year of Minister Cynthia Maloga we have had the opportunity to hear that no country at the time of this pandemic and the resolution of the problem that hit us in 2020, in the following year is increasing its salary because it is not able to increase, because obviously as a state we have made, ultimately Parliament voted here and verified decisions that we have temporarily made to support Serbia's economy. This is why we got as an exposure to the National Bank of Serbia if it wasn't for these measures, we would go back to three years before the crisis started and hardly be able to achieve at all the high growth rates projected for 2020, of 6%, and it would be difficult for the deficit to be 3% for next year and difficult not to break the debt, public debt to keep within the limits of up to 60%, such as Mastricht, or EU member states that are trying to keep that level of public debt. But I'm going to tell you right now, all these developed countries have a much higher drop rate. So they're above 6% and what Serbia really should be proud of is that we end this decline in economic activity in this year with 1%. What you're saying, Mr. Minister, is that this year's inflow of foreign direct investment will be 2.3 billion and that stability and the will of investors not to give up their investments in Serbia and next year is actually a good indicator of how good we really were in this year, regardless of all the challenges that have really hit us, as well as all the states. What the Fiscal Council said in its assessment, which is that public finances are stable, means that it really supports this part that indicators not only the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but all international financial institutions, above all the IMF, have just given an increase in wages in their criticism. They feel justified that pensions are justified as they grow, that salary increases are justified for healthcare professionals, and that any other increase that applies to both civil servants and members of the Yugoslav Army is not justified because they believe that this is a major risk, since we do not know if we will have a 6% growth. They justify, of course, increasing capital investment, but since I don't think they've been sufficiently informed, since they're constantly talking about increasing investment in the area of health, in the area of environmental protection, I don't think they had this information that in 70 projects and eight plus 28, so a total of 36 local self-government will have environmental projects and start realising from next year. I don't think they had that part of the answer when they did the grade, just as they didn't have the information about the "Er Serbia" that they constantly attack, and some Gilas media say that the abnormal borrowing in "Er Serbia" and that in the Report and the budget assessment is 80 times mentioned "Er Serbia" as a company that, minors, is bankrupt. They did not know that there is no transparency in this public enterprise, because the contract exists on the Ministry of Finance site, because any payment from the budget is characterised as state aid and such, as state aid, has to be documented to the European Commission that if it were not to be declared a bankruptcy by the European Commission and no Air Serbia plane could take off.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1248	Alexandra, as far as the board is concerned, you've got five minutes, you've already crossed that line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1249	Okay, here I go. I just wanted to report that there was a very constructive debate on the Committee and that all those issues and dilemmas were removed with all the participants who were very important to all the MPs who participated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1250	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, from another committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1251	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, we have also considered proposals that MPs today will have the opportunity to talk about in plenary. What to say after the presentation of Mr. Minister and after the explanation of colleague Aleksandra Tomic, who is chairman of the Finance Committee, but here as rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I have an obligation to come forward and say a few words, because today there is also perhaps the most important law, or a bill to be discussed. So the draft budget for 2021 is so well-conceived that actually citizens feel the least about the consequences of the economic crisis that is happening to us because of the presence of the Kovid-19 virus, and they happen everywhere in the world. Most importantly, as of January 1st, a pension increase of about 6% is expected, a 5% increase in health wages, for other public sector employees 3.5%, and we see that there is a plan for April 2021, for an increase of 1.5%. It is also important to say that the minimum earnings will increase by 6.6%. The planned amounts of average salaries and pensions by 2025 are 900 and 430 euros, respectively. So, the conclusion is that the proposed budget continues with a tendency to improve citizens' living standards, but it will be directed and that is good to hear about the 2025 programme, which includes 14 billion euros in infrastructure and other major projects. Thanks to the great work, thanks, above all to the household relation to the state register, we can talk about the development budget at the moment when we are hit by a covid-19, so I call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support this bill, which I have now spoken about briefly, and other drafts of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1252	Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kanberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1253	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as has been said, the budget is one of the most important decisions to be made during a calendar year and, in view of respect of the principles of democracy, the budget must include citizens. He must through public policies ensure justice, security and general development. So the budget is the top of the political participation of citizens. Whether it's in practice or not, it's not the topic I'm going to be dealing with today, I'm leaving it to the public to have a critical opinion on it. What I am interested in is that, although it is said that the budget will be developed and that it will have the most capital investment, I do not see any shifts in the budget for the national councils of the national minorities, nor for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, which are financed, or whose projects are financed through the budget of the Coordination Body. Moreover, we have less than eight million compared to last year's budget for the Capital Investment Co-ordination Body, and there is also little funding compared to the needs of the National Councils of National Minorities. I'll use only one of these municipalities, but since they're similar, those data are worth both Preshevo and Bear. I must point out that since 2014, transfer funds, regular transfers to municipalities have not been increased. For example, Bujanovac received or received 391.927,649,00 dinars today, or 32.660.000,00 dinars per month. Now, the monthly amount of wages in 2014 was 20,300,000,00 dinars. Today, in 2020, the mass is 25 million, which means that the needs of the municipality are increased. By recognising the right to compensation for travel expenses for all workers, the municipality allocates six million per month, four and a half million dinars for preschool institutions and primary and secondary schools and 1.5 million dinars for other users. A special collective contract in education recognises the right to jubilee awards for 10, 20, 30 and 35 years, assistance in medical treatment and assistance in the event of the death of a family member. A large number of court rulings for 1980s cases also burden the budget of these municipalities, and of course the consequences of the pandemic are most felt in undeveloped municipalities. We have tried to influence the amendments to improve the budget and that economic classification 4.81, grants to NGOs, i.e. national councils and NGOs are increased from 267 million to 534 and, also, Chapter 3.12, of the Co-ordination Body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, should be increased from 382 million to 465 million, and 30%, because of the needs that exist in these municipalities. I hope that the government will take a positive look at our amendments and that they will accept those who aim to help these municipalities complete the projects that have started, all in order to improve our citizens' living conditions. These are our suggestions, and I hope they will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1254	Thank you. The speaker of the Single Serbia Group, Dragan Markovic Palma, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1255	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Single Serbia will vote in favour of the 2021 budget for a number of reasons. What we can't say without saying is that in 2020, it's certainly been the most difficult year in economic terms for the last 15 years, and that we've fought on the basis of the inflows we've had, that we pay off everything and that something called surprise, which is the crown, that everything that's necessary for funding, from the acquisition of instruments, through protective measures, that Serbia can be praised and that we've been better equipped with some other much more developed European countries in the environment and preserved the stability of the dinar, which is most important, because if you have a stable dinar, then there is security and economic stability and we give great opportunity with other privileges, I can say, for foreign investors, but also for domestic investors. I'm not going to deal with numbers, but the budget planned for 2021 is, above all, an investment budget. Capital investment is very important. There are not only performers and service providers, but also manufacturers. It was the first time in Serbia in two years that you did not have a free master, carpenter, builder, electrician, that everyone was engaged, but not abroad, but in Serbia, working on buildings built and built in Serbia. Not just capital investments. I can freely say that it's a household budget, because I couldn't see that in the budget plan there was a car purchase like it was seven, eight years ago, so 10-15 cars, etc. If I were to ask myself, I wouldn't let a minister drive it by a state car. So, to become a minister, you have to do something in life first, have your own car and drive your own car, but it doesn't matter. It is a practice that is inherited from choice to choice and, simply, I say what is my opinion. Social justice has not been expressed through social aid... Are you following me, Minister? Did the one sitting next to you come to dual education today? Minister, this gentleman who talks all the time has to keep his mouth shut when I'm talking-- today like when you finish two colleges after my speech, sir. I don't know your name. Is that how they taught you when someone's talking, and the story is because of you who came here, that you're telling some story of yours? Wait, then, based on my speech, you'll come to a conclusion and you'll hear something and learn. Thanks for the nod. That means I'm right. So, social justice. It's not social justice -- I'm going to give you now, I don't know, help or go to the counter where the Red Cross gives a warm meal and I don't know what, social justice happened when it comes to wages, pensions, increased wages. Here's a one-time help for the pensioners, the ones who celebrate St. Nicholas. Half of Serbia celebrates St. Nicholas, and half of Serbia goes to those who celebrate. So, two pensioners, ten thousand dinars. They can freely prepare their own glory for ten guests and it is a huge help for pensioners and plus what will be, as of next year, the Swiss model of pension accounting. What's more important is that everyone works, lives from their work. And to work, no one can come here anymore, looking for a job, and you say, "I don't know where I'm going to send you." For example, now that someone's looking for a job, come to me, my service gives him at least 10 factories, 10 entities that have companies, and they're looking for workers. Here, I guess you'll find something for yourself in those ten companies to get a job and work. As time goes by, which is good for Serbia, there are fewer unemployed. The arrival of foreign investors is increasing year after year, but they do not come to Serbia purely because of the geographical position. Of course, it's important too, but they come for economic security, because of the stability of the dinars, and I don't know any serious foreign investor who came to Serbia, some city, and that he picked up his machines and went back to the country where he came from. This means that the state promises it and honors it. Serbia has a credit rating, which is most important today, in international relations, and when it comes to credibility, that it can take credit tomorrow, but that loan that it takes Serbia, that loan goes to capital investment, where it will return to you tomorrow. That should be understood by those who do not know what economic stability is and what financial priorities are when it comes to the 2021 budget. I blame a lot of you and President Vukic here, he is the biggest culprit for this, why you do so much transparency and talk about how we are the best, and we are actually the best, in Europe and they resented us, so they say – you know what, there is no rule of law in Serbia and we will not open any chapters until the end of the year. That's not true. And they told us -- both August and September, those who decide on our lives from the EU that two chapters will be open by the end of the year. But, Minister, there is jealousy, why we are so successful and constantly something we are, as we are reportedly intruding both Croatia and Montenegro and Macedonia from time to time, and we are not touching anyone. It's all because of our success. There was no such thing as success in the past years. The rule of law is compromised, as they say. Yes, the rule of law is at stake for those who go on TV with a motor saw. That's what they gave themselves. Such rights are threatened and such rights will never be able to be used again without those authorities who are in charge of it preventing and who want publicity through the demonstration of power forces, especially where institutions are. They say, "Meadlock." That's not true. Imagine, in the election campaign, we had to justify and pay for what we did and it's called political marketing. To vote for you, you say – here, so many highways, hospitals, factories, etc. And others criticise and hate is their top priority in the political programme. They say, "Here's the media block." That's not true. Everywhere in the world, even in America, there are opposition media, there are also here, there are those in power. What was Si-En-En doing to Trampa? What was he supposed to do? When it comes to opposition and these rulers of major states, such as Mr. McCron, such as Mrs. Merkel, they should also know what they are doing and what our opposition is doing in Serbia. What would you do, Marie le Pen, if she entered parliament and she broke flags and she broke signs in French cities etc? It's gone, and we just need to compare their opposition and ours. They beat the people because they put on yellow vests and something is unsatisfactory about the rate of taxes, increases, etc. Our police have never raised a pen and a hand to anyone unless someone compromised the safety of the law enforcement authorities, police officers on the street. We know very well what happened in front of parliament after the election. I ask those who decide Serbia's fate not to apply double arches. Individuals were torn apart that Macedonia did not join the EU, but Macedonia only changed its name. No one has taken part of the territory of Macedonia, as they have taken Serbia. It's not the same thing if someone takes a piece of your yard and your house and you say everything's okay, I'm gonna go negotiate for mine, see how much of mine you're gonna let me be mine. It's nowhere in the world. In order to deal with the opposition, let us say, it is good for you. Whose are you? Who do you work for? It affects the budget. This is not an abuse of my speech because I'm talking about what I don't know. It's all about the subject. It's all a topic, because someone is looking at the side, assessing, and assessing one eye when it comes to Serbia. What else is very important for the budget? We had a surplus a few years back. Now it's that little deficit. He's very small based on the expenditures we've had and how many lives we've saved. When I'm at the citizens' lives and health, my attitude hasn't changed when it comes to the crown. I have twelve family members, and six members of my family had a crown. It's become a life. And little children and those middle-aged ones, and my sons and daughters-in-law, and my wife and I. It's people's lives. It's the hardest thing for anyone to get sick. That's what we have to live with. I don't mind that professional part of the CID, but a third of the doctors at the CID don't work in hospitals. I want to hear the one who heals the patient, I want to hear the one who says -- look who's lying here, he's had a fever for four days, he hasn't picked up in time, and now he's on the respirator. That they're texting us, not answering our questions at press conferences for an hour or so. There's a vaccine now. In 2009, I told Dr. Konu, then he was Minister of Health Tomica Milosavljevic, let go more, then there was bird flu, bird flu and that vaccine, tomorrow there will be horse flu, and you'll be talking to me again. There's this virus called the corona, it's not horse flu, and now it's the vaccine's main topic. Why do they want to force themselves to be stronger than Torlak? State procurement, Torlak estimates chemically by which vaccines are good. What more do you have to scare people every day with crowns and vaccines, should they receive the vaccine or not? There is no mandatory vaccine in Serbia. Whoever wants to receive it, take it. Now I'm going to tell these doctors that she's arrived, or she's going to arrive in Serbia with the palmeish vaccine, so I'm going to see how much they're going to deal with the name of that vaccine. Do you understand? Why are they doing this? They work because your suppliers will tell you – we have the greatest credit, we have fought for your vaccine, although we don't know what your vaccine is and we need to benefit from it, and those who will mentally have a particular problem, the whole family, because of that, which we listen to for certain days, just that – the corona, the vaccines, the coronarys, the vaccines. It's sad when someone dies, I offer my condolences. My two acquaintances left a few days ago. They're not among us anymore. One is Jay who didn't die of the crown and the other is one of my friends, from another town, it doesn't matter what his name is. But, ladies and gentlemen, if every day we talk about it and now we come here to the Assembly like when we're little children-- let's get tested. Wait, and that simple man has to go to the hospital to wait for the test. What kind of testing here for MPs, anyway? If there's anything wrong with you, go to the hospital like all the regular people. You have immunity, you have a passport, you don't wait when you're going to a country, and now the doctor's gonna come to your place and say "a" to get your wipe. Wait, is that what we do? And now the report will come out of here, the way we're here, they're taking away our wipes, and so on, that we don't know how to protect ourselves. And what are we to be protected, to be more protected from ordinary people going to the market, going to shops, ordinary pensioners, etc.? And another piece of information. Come on, let's hear from this expert section of the Crisis Staff - how many died in 2019 from other diseases, and how many years since the Crown? I'll tell you. I have received reports from several cities that more people in Serbia died in 2019 than in 2020 since the crown, except for the city of Belgrade, Nis and Kragujevac, because in Belgrade clinics come from some other cities, but when all of these are summed up, there are more deaths in 2019 than in 2020. This Serbia doesn't need that spin and that the people are dealing with it now, because the budget is bad and the state is bad. That's not true. All the results when it comes to international relations have never been more popular. Do you think you tell one of America - take off my 10th point. People, if we hadn't looked with our eyes, no one would have believed, because the 10th point was that Serbia recognised an independent Kosovo, regardless of what was now won by another, but in that consolidation of strength and in the consolidation of forces where in the environment they were fighting tomorrow and who will tomorrow be the first politician and first president of that country, and then being at the same time someone who asks in the European Union, we as one smaller state and as a country with a label. We've been glued to the label, and we've been struggling to take down the label, how we're bad, how we don't know, how we've been waging conquerive wars, and in fact we've been waging defensive wars. So, I ask you, Ministers and Government, to take advantage of everything that is called your power and to make our subjects something else. Now comes Catholic Christmas, St. Nicholas, first Catholic Christmas, then it's New Year's Eve, then Serbian Christmas, so St. John's Day, and if people need to sit through it all, let's leave them alone. Like those who war, he says, we signed a truce, we don't fight for 15 days. Come on, let's not talk about the crown and the vaccines for 20 days. Now that I've gone to Belgrade, wherever you turn, except for two or three stations, one of the doctors is talking about the vaccine. So where'd they find them, anyway? Where did you find them? So go out there like those fellows of yours who are treating the people. I congratulate a certain number of members of the crisis staff who are going, working, so get out of work, to let us know how many patients have come to his clinic today and who are working, they can tell us what's going to happen in the next period of time. Nothing's true about the crisis headquarters telling us the last seven months about the crown. Nothing is true except that yesterday he died so much, tested so much and positively so much. That's the only information that's true. Everything else is not true. They were saying, here's another month, when July, August, because the high temperatures back then, the crown will disappear, etc. And now, the other day we're sitting with some of our people we've seen, he says, "Are you going to vaccinate? ", says: "I don't know, I'm thinking. And you? He says, "Let me see, then you will," and says, "I will," and says, "Well, if you will, so will I." So, you people realize that it's become, this is now a worse time than when NATO-aggressor bombs fell on Serbia. We're more scared now. We are more afraid and we need to see how to prevent and that what is called results, what is called the International Community and the European Union, what is it that you resent Serbia, why is Serbia late for joining the European Union? We need that, too. Of course we don't have this high marks, so you know when so many German entrepreneurs would come to Serbia, Italian, French and some other countries. Never. When you read the report from some institutions that are made of the best experts in Europe and the world and say "good for Serbia", they say, and our Fiscal Council says "nothing's wrong". Wait, who's this fiscal council? I don't want to tell these people if they know anything or don't know anything, of course they do, but what are the criteria for which they and the criteria give certain grades? There were seven or eight of them. I wanted to ask them, what are the elements of the calculations? If they know, God killed me. Maybe those two-three guys know. So, the elements of the calculation are the invoice price where the dependent costs stand, the margin is added to that, everything is collected and the VAT goes, is that right, Minister? You learned, I never doubted you. This guy next to you, I can't even ask that. Now they've come to suck our brains out so don't raise your salary, don't do this. Sometimes you have to have an economic risk, my friend, for success, economic risk. This country has had an economic risk with a coverage that's been called the last five years and I hope that's how it's going to be in 2021. That is why the JS will vote in favour of the draft budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1256	Thank you. Minister Sinisha Mali called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1257	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I would only briefly look back at two things that we had the chance to hear. One is related to foreign direct investment and what you, Mr. Palma, have said, I think it is very important for the citizens of Serbia, so during this year, despite the pandemic of the virus, despite the huge biggest economic crisis ever, no single investor who has made a decision in the previous period to invest in the Republic of Serbia, to invest his money in our country has ever given up on that decision. What you have a chance to see in this budget, so we even increased the amount of money that is in support of such investments by almost 50% compared to 2019. I told you just before that this year we will have about 2.3 billion euros in investment, foreign direct investment in our country, which speaks enough about attractiveness and investment security. After all, when you see that one country has reacted as ours has reacted, that wages are safe, pensions are safe, that all of its obligations are paid by the state in the day, of course you become more attractive to investment because simply when people invest their money, their capital, they want to be safe. What is very important when you mention the Fiscal Council, so the strategy of our growth in the last few years is about investment and is about export. So we never invest in capital projects like highways, railway reconstruction, industrial parks. Therefore, the inflow of foreign direct investments which, in turn, result in an increase in exports. So, 100%, let's say, it doesn't have to be 100%, but the largest number of foreign investors, the vast majority comes to Serbia, builds a factory, but they're not just interested in the domestic market. They are interested in placing their goods across Europe and beyond. Therefore, the free trade agreements that the Republic of Serbia has are very important, but here is exactly why Serbia doubled the amount of goods and services exports from 2012 to 2019. In 2012, 17,5 billion euros, at 23.3 billion euros in 2019. So we doubled the export. That means our economy has changed so much. It means that the factories that are open here are competitive on the world market, we have what goods, we have what services to take out. It's a foreign exchange inflow for our country. It's an inflow into our budget. It's the basis for an increase in wages and pensions. It's the only sustainable, only first economic policy. So, the more factories that are related to investment in infrastructure, the better highways, safer, safer highways, faster railways, new industrial parks, therefore you have as a consequence never a lower unemployment rate in our country. A data I didn't say in my opening statement to repeat to you now only -- in the third quarter of this year, our unemployment rate is lower than in the first quarter of this year before the coronary virus. So, a real strategy that is focused on exports and investment. If you just let me, I know that I've crossed my exposure time, I didn't get a chance to answer the MPs before you, Mr. Palma, unfortunately, they're not there, what's very important to me to know is that, which I mentioned the last time I was here in parliament, from the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights finally came to request additional funding for the National Council of National Minorities, and that request will be granted in the amount of 20 million 756 thousand dinars. We'll approve that Thursday at the next cabinet session. What the honourable MP who has not mentioned at the moment did not mention, and I would like the citizens of Serbia to know that -- the government of the Republic of Serbia has since 2018 helped the municipality of Medvedja, Presevo and Bujanovac from the current budget reserve at the end of the year each of these individual years with a total of 90 million dinars. So, in 2018 - 40 million, 2019 - 20 million this year, this year, this year's crisis year, which I heard the state of Serbia helped nothing, with 30 million dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget to help only these three municipalities. Also, what I would like to mention, and not to mention, in the municipality of Presevo in August 2019, was completed the reconstruction of the “Wolf Kradzic” elementary school, the reconstruction of the “Skenderbeg School”. By the end of 2020, therefore, by the end of this year we will have completed the reconstruction of the “Ibrahim Keljmendi” elementary school in Medvedja, the “Medvedja” Health Home – the reconstruction was completed during this year. So it's not true that there's any discrimination or that anyone's forgotten. Whenever we can and wherever we can, whether it's schools, health homes or direct support to the budget, we provide it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1258	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1259	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, I am very pleased with the enthusiasm with which you defended and explained this budget. Your presentation was exhaustive, detailed, so it seems to me that there is little left for us MPs to tell what is new, but this budget is good, this budget is real, it is stable, it represents continuity and what is most important and what you said about its social component, it is maintaining citizens' standards, I say, maintaining and slightly increasing citizens' standards. That's a big score. In fact, we are in one of the biggest crises that is at the beginning of the 21st century, you see this for yourself, not only the state of Serbia, but I note that the state of Serbia is not a rich country, on the contrary, but we are giving the right answers to the crisis of the Kovid 19 pandemic. Why do I say that? I say this for a simple reason because the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives adequate answers to all the challenges we have in this difficult situation and something very positive, you respected the budget calendar. That wasn't the case until now. The budget calendar is respected. The budget arrived in the Assembly in November when it was time. We've had enough time to study it, to see its good side, but also the other side where we're going to give suggestions to make it possible and fix it. Also, you gave the final bill for 2019 with this budget, which has not been the case for the past 15 years. The state of Serbia is becoming a normal state, and that is what I also want to point out in particular. You yourself said in your opening statement that we were fighting two very important battles. It is a battle for the health of Serbian citizens and a battle for the preservation of our economy. Without winning both fronts, it seems to me that as a country, we won't get far. But when we talk about the most difficult crisis from the beginning of the 21st century, I want to point out that the answers to the pandemic were really appropriate. This shows the results both in health care and in the economy. Now I'm going to talk about health care. It should be emphasized that higher health equations are 8.8% of GDP. What does that mean? This means that we have completed the Clinical Centre in Nis, that next year we will finish the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, the further construction of the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad and Kragujevac begins. You mentioned we built two hospitals. One is in Zemun, the other will be quickly completed in Kruševec and the reconstruction of other hospitals you have already highlighted here. What I want, and that is my message to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, human lives are worth more than anything we invest in health care. No money should be regretted, no euro invested in health care, because it is a struggle for the lives of Serbian citizens. Even the fact that you continue to be in charge, be assured that you will have the support of the SDPP MPs to do so, because the lives of Serbian citizens are the most important thing we have. Here will be my message to the citizens of Serbia – yes, the citizens of Serbia, we can help a lot ourselves if we respect the recommendations of doctors, we respect the recommendations of experts to wear masks, to wash our hands regularly and to have the distance required of us. I note that the cost of treatment from Kovid 19 is enormous and that in Serbia it is free of charge. Please, all tests are free, and we have almost tested two million citizens of Serbia, which is about 30% of Serbian citizens. Hospital days are also free, medications, medical devices and vaccines, which I expect soon and unlike others who have a dilemma about whether to receive a vaccine or not, I must tell the citizens of Serbia that the vaccine is a civilizational act and I am one of those who can't wait to receive it because I believe that it will protect not only me, but also the people around me. What's most important is I see that we will certainly win, win for the simple reason we're doing this seriously, we're doing it responsibly, and that's what we're saying about reality and the answer to everything that's going on. I must point out that you have proposed an ambitious budget and I see that with great enthusiasm you stand behind that budget. I believe you. GDP growth of 6%, then you predicted a deficit of 178.5 billion or 3% of GDP. A decrease in public debt and I respect that, you know the limit of the Mastrict is 60% that's the red line. I like the red line too, I like the red color, so I like the red line for the simple reason because it's about things that are very important. We can be in debt, but Serbia has its economic power as well. Sustainable borrowing is something that we must constantly respect, which is exactly the 60% we have achieved, which we hope to reduce and not achieve. I welcome your commitment to upholding standards and increasing. I'm not going to talk about the big one, but I'm going to point out a slight increase in citizens' standards. That's what anyone who receives a salary, anyone who receives a pension, can see in their account what we did last year and what we've done since we adopted the Swiss formula. I stress, the Swiss formula at times like this gives good positive results, but the results will come in such that pension growth will be lower, but you know when you have rules, the rules worked out, then you're sure you won't get into debt crisis, you won't cross some borders, some red lines, and I have to stress one of the rules that I'm gonna ask for, which is that our pensions are 11% of GDP, and they're paying around 9% of GDP. It is a sustainable model that will allow the country to move forward, to pay for growth in the economy, and to have one sustainable, balanced growth that we have had. You know, I also support the growth of a minimum profit of 6.6% that's a big score. You yourself said what the minimum salary was in 2012, and what it was in 2020, or 2021. Since I am someone who comes from the union, I would like to stress, I welcome that this decision has been made by social dialogue and I stress that trade unions insist that the minimum profit be equal to the minimum consumer basket. I know that some things can't be fixed quickly, but I expect in the next period that we'll get to that number quickly, and then we'll talk about something else, because then the state will have much more growth, we'll talk about a higher standard and we'll say that the average salary is the average consumer basket, but first we'll achieve this goal that I'm talking about. Of course, I'd like it to be in the conversation, I'd like the Minister of Labour here, through social dialogue, because that's what European value is and that's what we need to talk about. When we talk about an increase in wages and pensions, when we talk about help, I keep stressing and I'm going to point out this time, I know it's a big bite, and it's social cards. I'm always like a socialist for a selective approach to get the most those who have the least, and those who have more or the most easier to endure all crisis moments. We can do that. I hope that this will also seem to be an adequate tax policy, where we will reach out to be a society of equal opportunities. And, of course, I'm always talking about pay grade and pay law. That's two big bites. I don't expect to do it right now, but I expect it to start and move towards that solution, because then it will correct many of the illogicalities that we have, and that fact itself will give us better financial results. You know, it's rare that the country has managed in these difficult times, not only to maintain the standard, but to slightly increase it. I keep stressing the treasure for a simple reason because we tend to talk about large numbers often, and I'm one of the ones who likes to say and a little increase in these difficult times is a big, huge increase. That's what Serbian citizens need to know. You know, they wouldn't be telling me about all this, about the raises, the wages, the pensions if there wasn't an adequate response to the Kovid crisis. We had it and we can talk about it. The biggest result in this budget, and therefore the minister must be proud, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, to be proud, and I hope that Srlig will get his share of the cake, as I see him insisting on the minister, but I am sure we will do much forward. I want to say for public investment and capital expenditure, we give the largest figure, 274 billion, or the state gives 330 billion. That's 5.5% of GDP. I remember two years ago, for the 2018 budget, I insisted that capital expenditure be 3%, and now we're at 5.5%. That's an extraordinary result. It will mean that Serbia's economy will have one swing and that is a long-term view of the future. This means that the government of the Republic of Serbia is looking to the future. Just so you know, 70 billion more has been given to healthcare than in 2020. You emphasized that we were continuing to build highways, the Moravia Corridor, Corridor 11, you were talking about fast traffic. Here, Minister, by respecting your enthusiasm, I promise you, trusting you, and I trust you to the next budget, in 2022, so next year I'll be on a fast train from Novi Sad in 35 minutes. It will be one of the very big successes of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of all of us, and of the citizens of Serbia. That means we keep our word and what we have to do and do. When I began to deal with politics and when I came to this home, my first discussion about the budget was precisely that I would insist on building a French corridor and making a tunnel through the Frusch Mountain. I said when it's over, I'll leave politics. You see, I've been waiting since 2012, so here I am next year. I hope that he will be finished, and that is exactly how long this assembly's mandate will last. That's gonna be a big score. Why? Well, I'm tired of listening when the first snow falls that the Irish wreath is closed to heavy trucks and buses. In the 21st century, we can't build a two-mile tunnel. I'm sure we'll build it and go through it proudly. Of course, I'll leave one more thing you were talking about, and I always like to talk about it. You were talking about the 20-25 agenda. I respect that agenda. That's very important what you said, but there's also an agenda of 20-30 or the goals of sustainable development. I will especially highlight this component because it is about infrastructure and environmental protection. Investment in environmental protection is essentially investment in life, investment in health care. You know, prevention is far better than treatment, the more we invest in drinking water that every household in Serbia has drinking water, that every household, which is a very large bite, has a sewerage, as well as to see the processing of garbage, to see a green economy that can also swing our economy. I expect, I haven't seen it in the budget, but I expect that the deposit at Prepolje will finally be resolved and I expect it, because we promised to clean Serbia, but not marketing, but really work, investment and what needs to be done, really, that Serbia has a healthy environment. I don't know what's going on with the 500m-euro loan from the Bank to develop the Council of Europe, whether we've finished it, whether it's arrived. That's what I certainly expect you to be able to invest precisely in these dumps, air purifiers and all that seems to be there. I'm not talking about specific numbers. You said how much the budget is, how much is the revenue, how much is the expenditure, and that's what's really presented. I can only tell Serbian citizens that Serbia's public finances are stable and far from the crisis. But that's why I'm asking you to really always take care of the red lines, because it can easily slip into what we already had so we don't have one new financial consolidation again, and that's what we don't need. You know, you should always say, the six billion euros invested during the Covid crisis in the economy, helping Serbian citizens and the economy is a very significant result. That's why we can now talk about development, investment and raising pensions and wages. Otherwise, we'd be talking about the cuts and everything that needs to be done. Of course, in the end, I would like to stress that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group supports this budget and we will vote for this budget in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1260	Thank you. The word has a minister, Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1261	Thank you very much. If you'll just let me take a brief look at two things that are very important to me from your presentation, which I've never had a chance to say before. The first refers to the PIO Fund and what is very important when you look at the way we pay our pensions, that Serbian citizens understand that pensions are fully stable, completely safe, that we have room for their growth year by year, but what is very important, that the basis of these payments is precisely the stability of the PIO Fund. Why the stability of the PIO fund? Because from year to year, the income of the PIO Fund is growing, growing from the contributions paid because more and more people are working in Serbia, we have an increasing number of employees, we have an increasing number of unemployed. Here's the exact data. For 2012, let's say we have 2008 right here in front of us by 2020. In 2012, the total revenue from the contribution to the PIO Fund was 287 billion. Total revenues in 2019 were 494 billion. So, a huge increase, with the participation of the transfer from the budget to the PIO fund. So, for Serbian citizens to understand, seven, eight years ago, there were insufficient contributions to pay out pensions from the PIO Fund, but the state of Serbia touched the PIO Fund every month and touched it with 48%. So 48.2% of the PIO fund's income was from the grant from the Republic of Serbia's budget because there were not enough contributions to cover the pensions of all employees, so a huge risk. % in 2019 25.3%. Almost twice as much, precisely because a responsible economic policy has been led, which is the right way of targeting efforts to open a large number of factories, to employ a large number of people, to reduce the grey economy and to direct taxes and contributions to the budget, to go to the RFO fund, to go to the Pension Fund as well, to this information, honourable MPs, is really an indicator of how a successful economic policy contributes to the stability of the pension system, because we are almost coming to the fact that the pension system is fully self-sustaining, because we continue to see a trend in the growth of the number of employees and a reduction in the number of unemployed. On the other hand, I would like to refer to what you said about pay levels and minimum consumer baskets. So, the definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that's what I said in my opening statement, is that year by year we push and grow minimum earnings. Why? Because the growth of minimum earnings directly affects the growth of the average salary in Serbia. It's statisticalally determined and it's very important to us. President Vukic made a promise a few years ago that the average salary in the Republic of Serbia, in December of last year, would be 500 euros. We fulfilled that promise, we move on, we need to reach 900 euros at the end of 2025. It's another promise we made and we're on our way to keep. That's why we're going to raise the minimum profit. In 2012, I said, somewhere around 15,000 dinars, here from January 1st next year over 32,000 dinars. Why is that so important to me? Because when you look at just a few years ago, the minimum profit covered the amount of the consumer basket, and when you compare it to the data today, you see a huge difference. Here's the data, in 2014, the minimum wage covered less than 60% of the minimum consumer basket, namely 58.3%. In 2020, for the first ten months, it covers 79.4%, close to 80%. So, despite the years of fiscal consolidation and the reforms we have been going towards, we are going towards that goal, we have discussed this on the Social Economic Council, that the minimum profit is equal to the level of the consumer basket, which is a very important social indicator. I say, once again, in 2014, 58.3%, and in 2020, 79.4. So the difference is enormous and talks enough about Serbia's progress on the growth of minimum earnings and coverage of the consumer basket in this past period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1262	Thank you. The word has a master, Ifsh Ujhelji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1263	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group will support the 2021 draft budget of the Republic of Serbia, because the proposed budget is responsible for citizens, as its adoption will ensure the continuity of development and social programmes on the one hand, and on the other hand the sustainability of public finances and the continuation of a reduction in public debt levels in terms of participation in the gross social product. Our MP group welcomes the fact that the importance of finding new sources of growth has been recognised, so research and innovation development, renewable energy sources, creative industry and eco-investment are taken into account when defining programming measures. The global pandemic, unfortunately, is not yet complete and cannot be seen to end, so the period ahead of us is full of suspense. This is why it is very important for fiscal policy to focus on continuing to reduce the overall tax burden on labour by further discharging the economy, i.e. increasing the competitiveness of the private sector. It is important to point out that infrastructure and capital projects, as well as pension and salary policies, have priority. The government of the Republic of Serbia has taken care that by increasing these two largest categories of expenditure, not coming out of the planned sustainable framework. Dear People's MPs, as the end of 2020 approaches, we can conclude that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has responded in due time to the challenges facing economics, primarily fiscal policy, set up a global health crisis. The first and most important task of the state, the state register was sufficient and unhindered financing of the fight to preserve human health and life. The basic objectives have been set by the adoption of an economic programme to support Serbia's economy. Economic capacity has been preserved and support has been provided in maintaining the liquidity of the economy during the duration of the emergency. It was a second, no less important task of public finances. Thanks to macroeconomic and fiscal stability, it was achieved in the previous period, the Republic of Serbia had enough space to help the economy reduce the negative effects of the coronary virus. A comprehensive package of measures was envisaged to help businesses and whose positive effects were reflected in macroeconomic indicators, unemployment, lower economic downturn and others. The planned value of the total aid package is estimated at 12.5% of the total domestic product. The total package of measures to support the economy and population in the current year amounted to 551 billion dinars, of which 110 billion dinars were provided on behalf of the tax policy measure, and of the direct support measure to the economy sector of 132.9 billion dinars. He would point out here that the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians supported the government's proposal to pay 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room each. In the previous period, the most important measure may have been a 10% increase in salaries for healthcare professionals, direct aid from 4,000 dinars to all pensioners and support to agricultural producers. It is very important to help farmers because, thanks to them and in these difficult times, agricultural products will still grow by about 5%, with record yields of certain plant cultures, which will positively affect the overall GDP. We also agreed with the adoption of rebalancing that it is very important to maintain the health and treatment of patients and therefore the Government of the Republic of Serbia spent an additional 60 billion dinars in the past period on behalf of medical equipment and medicines. According to the finance ministry, the fiscal deficit will be around 8.9% of GDP at the end of the year, but in our opinion, the opinion of the parliamentary group of the Duchy of Hungarians, such a one-time deficit would be fully justified because, otherwise, economic activity would be much higher this year, followed by a decrease in production capacity, including a decrease in the number of jobs. Also, without these measures, economic recovery would be significantly slower in the coming year. This was important to say because every time we talk about economics, we have to compare the past, the present and the future. We should make it clear and loud that economic growth in 2020 will be minus 1%, which is one of the best results in Europe. In the absence of measures and support for the economy and the population, the decline in GDP in 2020 would be around 5% of GDP. The euro zone expects a GDP decline of up to 8%. Dear People's MPs, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians will vote in favour of the proposal for the Republic of Serbia budget for 2021 for more reasons. The most important reason is that the proposed budget fully corresponds to the Master's Treaty, i.e. the EU Treaty. This in translation to figures means that in addition to the planned GDP increase of 6% of Serbia's deficits will be 3% and the public debt of the general state will be 58.70%. Inflation next year is planned at a very low and stable level of 2%, in addition to maintaining exchange rate stability. As Mr. Minister said, total budget revenues of 1.336 billion dinars are foreseen, which is 44 billion higher than the amounts foreseen in the 2020 budget, and total budget expenditures are estimated at 1,483 billion dinars, which is 245 billion less than those foreseen in the 2020 budget. The total fiscal deficit is 178.50 billion dinars. The real GDP growth rate in 2021 was projected at 6%. The most significant source of growth on the spending side will be personal consumption, thanks to preserved labour market stability and a preserved real increase in earnings, with recovery of consumption in the service segment and favourable conditions of borrowing. In 2021, investment will be the second most important component in terms of a positive contribution to GDP growth, which is very important from the perspective of its sustainability. The annual increase will be around 13.3%. The implementation of infrastructure projects is expected to continue, for which a record GDP of 5.5% is estimated in 2021. It is very important that, depending on the financial opportunity, pensioners who are the most vulnerable in the pandemic besides medical workers are helped. This is why we welcome the government's decision to pay 5,000 dinars in September and to increase pensions by 5.9% using so-called pensioners. Swiss formulas. We agree that it is extremely important to give one minimum profit to the workers in catering, hoteling, tourist and renting agencies. We support a minimum profit increase of 6.6%, a health salary of 5%, and a public sector of 3.5%, with an additional increase of 1.5%. In the exposé of then candidate for Prime Minister, and now Prime Minister Mrs. Ana Brnabic, the completion of the projects of adaptation, reconstruction and construction of the National Theatre building in Subotica was included in the government's priority and completion of the works is expected in late 2021, which the Prime Minister pointed out during a visit to Subotica and a tour of works on the theatre building in early June of this year. For the expected completion of the work on the National Theatre building in Subotica in the 2021 budget, no funds have been planned. The reason is rational. In early November, the rebalancing was defined by 218,600,000, which has not yet been spent. At the end of December 2019, the so-called 8/1 stages of works that include construction and architectural works, as well as equipment of theatre hall with stage technique. However, due to the pandemic caused by the infectious disease of Kovid 19, the slowdown of works, repetition of public procurement, public procurement procedures in previous years, some of the funds remained neutral, and is expected to end the eighth phase of the reconstruction of the National Theatre in 2021, which will invest around 18.5m euros in the project. For farmers, the important segment of the infrastructure and production cycle is the construction of two overpasses on the Pacherska and Kelebija-Ekutski path to the Ipislon arms, in order to ensure safe approach to the fields. In the 2021 draft budget law, 250 million dinars were identified for Ipislon, but, as in the case of the National Theatre, some of the funds from the previous pandemic cycle remained neutral. Ipsilon's arm is working, so on November 20th and 21st, because of works on the Mekutski road, the regime of freight traffic has changed through Subotica. In light of the global pandemic and the focus on domestic tourism, we are confident that significant resources will be planned for the infrastructure equipment of the spa, and we are particularly interested in improving Banja tourism in Vojvodina, so that throughout the 15/3 MV/CG throughout the year in our spas in Pacir, Kanjiža, Palić, Apatin, Banja Rusanda will ensure continued offer and improve the integration of health and environmental tourism of local economic and cultural activities and services and thus create preconditions for Banish tourism to become a factor not only of local, but also of wider regional development. In this sense, by the middle of 2021, work on the park complex and the wellness centre on Palic is expected to be completed. The foundation stone was set on 15 December 2018. The value of the investment is about 1.1 billion dinars co-financed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the province government and the town of Subotica. The complex will extend to about 3,000 square metres, with five indoor and five outdoor swimming pools. The facility will be able to accommodate up to 2,500 users and will make an important contribution to the development of Banjska tourism in Vojvodina, Serbia. Special attention is given to the Association of Vojvodina Hungarians to agrarian politics, because in Serbia more than a million and a half people live on agriculture and it is important that we all think together how to maintain and improve agricultural production and at the time of the pandemic. One measure is direct subsidies and liquidity loans at favourable interest rates. The rebalancing of the Republic budget has provided considerable resources for incentives in agriculture and rural development with the aim of preventing and easing the effects of the birds. Businesses in Serbia are at the disposal of fiscal reliefs and the state's grants. The 2021 budget in the part of the fosterment in agriculture and rural development identified 38.3 billion dinars. That's good news for Vojvodina where about 500,000 people live from agriculture, where every fifth employee works in some part of the food chain. For economic and development policy, the draft budget sets out 66.6 billion dinars, with about two-thirds of the total amount being capital expenditure of 22.8 billion dinars and subsidies of 21.7 billion dinars. For the programme of attracting investment covering jobs related to the proposed and implementing measures, investment incentives, the integration of companies with strategic partners, the growth of free zones and the like is planned for 29.6 billion dinars. Almost 5.5 billion dinars have been planned for the programme to encourage and develop competitiveness of the economy, which includes activities related to the payment of subsidies most through the Fund for the development and provision of technical assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises. 4.15 billion dinars are planned for the Regional Development Programme, which continues to fund support for local self-government for infrastructure development. In addition to priority projects, such as the interstate projects of building and modernising the Belgrade railway line – Budapest, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians pays special attention to the construction of local roads and streets in local self-government, as well as the enhanced maintenance and reconstruction of state roads on the AP Vojvodina territory. We can ask the question – why is building six kilometers between Orom and Chantavir important? The road is important because it will facilitate communication in a wider area, which is the border area of the town of Subotica, the municipality of Kanjiz. Also, the construction of the road will provide a more efficient, safer transport of municipal waste from the municipalities of Choko, Bačka Topola, Mali Ijoš and Senta to a regional dump that is close to this route. When we talk about the railway, for all citizens of Serbia and Vojvodina, it is of particular importance to complete the reconstruction of regional railways on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the reconstruction of the Subotica-Segedin railway line, as well as the construction, or reconstruction of the Subotica-Baja section. I must mention here another important investment which is also an important project for our citizens, which is the reconstruction and construction of the Horgos-Resca border crossing. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will support the budget, as it contains building important infrastructure and water projects, such as building a highway between Belgrade and Zrenjanin, building a traffic station between Novi Sad and Ruma, building a second phase of a wastewater treatment plant, cleaning water for drinks in Kikinda and improving the conditions for the implementation of ships under the dam at Tisa near New Vienna. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, I would ultimately like to repeat what I said and the rebalancing of the deficit funding. Namely, in Article 2. You stated the budget law that you plan to provide the necessary funds to finance the budget deficit from loans from domestic and international commercial and multilateral financial institutions, foreign governments through the broadcasting of state charters. We know that citizens of our country are currently able to buy state papers in a very complicated and expensive way. Our proposal is to simplify the purchase of government bonds through the Treasury, with minimum costs and without taxes to our citizens who are willing to finance public debt to the state. In fact, if most of the public debt is in the hands of our citizens, then it provides a more stable financial market during extreme events, as is the current pandemic. On the other hand, we believe that it is better to pay the interest rate and interest to our citizens who believe in the state and buy state papers and who will spend them in the country, rather than foreign speculators. We will vote in favour of the budget, as the government of the Republic of Serbia is making efforts to preserve public health and security, helping businesses, making efforts to preserve living standards and liquidity of the population and paying special attention to capital investments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1264	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1265	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us with a draft bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2021. Today we are talking about a document that has the character of the country's financial plan for one year and represents a forecast of the country's income and expenditure for next year. The 2021 budget is planned in line with the country's economic situation and the needs of society. The good side of this budget is that it's realistically planned and it's not planned for a major deficit. Also, the good side of this budget is said to be on one side of the budget for 2021, and it encourages further development of the economy and marks a continuation of development, which essentially means continuing the implementation of the national investment plan. On the other hand, the draft budget has allocated more funding for salaries and pensions, which means raising citizens' standards to a higher level. Certainly, the difficult circumstance of budget planning for 2021 is the situation caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus and the inability to look at the consequences of this pandemic, which requires the planning of certain funds. For a reminder, according to RZS data, GDP growth in the first quarter of 2020 was 5.1% and was followed by positive developments in all sectors of the economy, although growth in economic activity was solid during the first quarter, the start of a slight slowdown in economic activity was observed during March as a result of dramatic changes in the international environment, all caused by the coronary pandemic virus. There are certainly some shortcomings in the proposal for this document and we from the PUPS believe that amendments to this law will be corrected. The PUPS parliamentary group – Three Ps will vote in favour of this law and vote for it. I, as a representative of the PUPS and the PUPS parliamentary group – Three P, a party that has identified itself as protecting the oldest population, pensioners, older people and socially endangered part of the population, will take advantage of the opportunity to talk in this context about the need for the budget to have a social component that will meet the needs of a large part of the population. The government in general, as well as the ministries individually, needs far more attention to pay attention to our oldest citizens, through specific positions of financial resources to ensure that the problems and needs of the elderly are seen. Given that the state is Serbia, a country with an extremely older population structure, and we fall within the very top of the European Nations and states that have an older population and apply to older nations in Europe, then we must certainly also have the budget and other legal solutions to adapt to this population structure. Serbia is a signator of the Madrid document, titled "Madrid International Plan of Action on Aging", which was adopted in 2002, which marks a turning point in society and state relations towards older people and envisions building a society for all ages. This document requires the government of signatories to approach a new relationship between age and age in the 21st century, and the holders of these activities are the Government in general and above all, the Ministry of Labour, Health, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the regional authorities and units of local self-government, institutions of social protection, health institutions, institutions in the field of education and culture in co-operation with NGOs and humanitarian organisations and associations of citizens. In accordance with this document, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted in 2005, a national ageing strategy aimed at creating an integrated and coordinated policy that will bring society and the economy, and above all, health and social, labour market, education and culture, sport, into line with demographic change, in order to create a society for all lifetimes, which particularly strives to meet needs and free the untapped potentials of old people. The strategy is based on the following basic principles, the life-long development of individuals, the promotion and protection of all human rights and fundamental freedoms, the provision of economic and social security and the quality of life in age, the enabling of full integration and participation of the elderly in the community, the elimination of all forms of social neglect, the reduction of functional skills in age and disability. Employment in achieving gender equality, respect for diversity and consequently different needs among the old population. Promoting intergenerational tolerance, solidarity, dialogue, establishing partnerships at all levels, the government, the NGO sector, the private sector between the old people themselves. Old people have great knowledge accumulated in years of hard work, great experience and wisdom, which is a characteristic of old people. That is why it is necessary for them to join all segments of social life, because they can still and want to help the social community. On behalf of 1.7 million pensioners and another 300,000 old people, who do not have any income, because they have not obtained the right to retire, and cannot achieve the vision of social assistance because of the possession of some property on which they cannot earn income, for various reasons, which makes up about two million inhabitants of this beautiful Serbia, I will try to convince the carriers, primarily the executive authorities, that in planning the budget, not only the republic, but also the provinces and local self-government, to adequately view our oldest citizens. The Madrid-based international plan of aging action, based on the Strategy on Ageing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, insists that the government and ministries be the bearers of activities in co-operation with NGOs and humanitarian organisations and associations of citizens. The Union of Pensioners of Serbia, as a representative representative of Serbia's pensioners with over 650 thousand members, as well as the "Third Age Movement of Serbia", which is also a representative representative of all third-time people are also NGOs and humanitarian organisations and associations of citizens, and as such bearers are all the activities of older people in the Republic of Serbia, in the work of social needs, health needs, cultural and entertainment activities, sports-recreative, educational and other activities. Therefore, the government, state authorities, all structures of government at all levels should see the Alliance of Retired Serbia and "The Third Age of Serbia" as partners in the realisation of all programming activities with an older population. The Government of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Madrid Agreement, made a decision on the education of the Council on Age and Age Affairs in 2017, confirmed the possibility of using their working and creative potentials and participating in the development of society, economic and public life. Unfortunately, most of the local self-government was not managed by this government decision, and they did not educate this body. As far as I know, the only town of Nis, the township of the Red Cross Nis and a few other towns and municipalities in Serbia have educated this body, and others as if they do not have an older population of their own. If we are building a society for all lifetimes, then it is necessary that local self-government should be educated advice for old, old-age offices, so that old people have the opportunity to express their needs and problems through them and give specific initiatives and suggestions. The civilization level of one society is measured by the attitude of the youngest and the oldest. If that relationship is good for us then we've achieved something very valuable. The pensioner isn't just a state of mind. Dignity, above all, because they're creative and valuable people. Pensioners are people who are still professors, doctors, workers, merchants, artists, people who continue to work and create. Bringing these people down to the usual phrase: "it's just pensioners" or ugly "pensos" is inadmissible. The PUPS Group – Tri P, launched a social dialogue on reform of the pension and disability system last year by adopting amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, a continuation of the start-up reform of the pension and disability insurance system, which definitely excludes the possibility of arbitration, individual group or pension coordination organisation, is already being defined by the new legal solution by the rules in this area. We at PUPS are the position that pension is an economic category and it must be paid regularly and that the state be guaranteed payment. On the other hand, new ways must be found to help pensioners with low pensions as a form of social giving. There are very positive examples of care for pensioners and we from PUPS welcome the initiative of the President of the Republic, Mr Alexander Vukic, on the payment of 5,000,00 dinars, to all pensioners as a form of assistance, but also to acknowledge that pensioners have borne the greatest burden in the time of consolidation and stabilisation of state finances. In line with the Serbian President's initiative, PUPS has launched an initiative to plan funds for these purposes, such as one- or several-time cash aid, food aid, drug procurement and other types of assistance, within their own capabilities. Since January 1st, the budget envisions the harmonisation of pensions by the Swiss formula of 5.9%, showing the justification for last year's adoption of a new Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. We believe that the proposed Swiss model of pension harmonisation is good as a transitional solution, but unfortunately, it constantly reduces the average pension from the average salary in the longer run. Therefore, the PUPS proposes the Tri P pension alignment model – pensions follow wages, because it is far the most just and just. When I talk about this Tri P model, it means as much to the professor, the doctor, the officer, the civil servant in employment, as much as to the professor, the doctor, the officer, the civil servant who's retired. The position of President Aleksandar Vukic, who has seen the shortcomings of the French formula and in agreement with the President of the PUPS, is particularly appreciated by the PUPS, Milan Krkobic announced an improvement in the Swiss formula as suggested by the 2019 PUPS. This means that harmonisation should be linked to public sector salary growth and that pensions on average do not fall below 50% of the average salary. If President Vukic's forecasts, that the average salary in 2025, are true, it will be 900 euros, which means an average pension of 2025 for our oldest citizens, will be 450 euros. Unfortunately, today we heard it will be 430 euros. Minister, please change your attitude and make it at least 50% of the salary. On this occasion, I would particularly apostrophe that the labour ministry finds the possibility of increasing the lowest pensions of all categories of pensioners from agricultural, old, disabled and others. I'm sorry the Minister of Labour isn't here, but you should think, first of all, about these lowest pensions, or minimum pensions. The second topic you'd be talking about is next. In October of this year, we adopted the Law on Ministries, which implemented a partial reorganisation of the current structure of the ministries, suggesting some failures in the previous period. The establishment of three new ministries will help strengthen public administration capacity in the given areas and improve the situation in these areas. Reorganisation of the current structure of the ministries and the establishment of the village's ministry of care is essential to the survival of the village, and thus the survival of Serbia. The budget allocated funds to the work of this ministry. They're both small and large. Small, because the needs are high, and the funds are insufficient, but they are large because for the first time the state takes care of the village this way. The village lacks social upgrades in all areas, culture, health care, education, infrastructure, etc. I expect the Minister of Agriculture to come up with concrete proposals for the overall social upgrade of the village and next year will be a key indicator for future governments and future ministers of the village. Milan Krkobic, the current minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia in charge of balanced regional development, has shown that he will and can run and implement projects that are important for our village. Let us remind ourselves – 52 weeks a year, 52 mails in Serbia's villages; Serbia's country in Serbia by bringing doctors, postmen, civil servant in Serbia's villages; the project – 500 cooperatives in 500 villages, has exceeded all expectations and more than 760 cooperatives have been established for three years. At the proposal, Minister Krkobic was formed by the National Team for the Rebirth of the Village of Serbia in response to the further collapse of the village. This team brings together numerous experts and authorities from agriculture, infrastructure, health care, education, culture, sports and other social areas of life, as well as representatives designated by the academic board for the village of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. Furthermore, the National Programme for the Rebirth of Serbia, which treats all aspects of life in the country, from existential through the infrastructure segments of culture, the preservation of cultural heritage in rural areas, sports, education, health care, to old crafts in rural tourism, has been developed. Of the 4,700 villages in Serbia, each fourth disappears. In 1,034 villages there are less than 100 inhabitants, while less than 500 inhabitants are in 2,832 villages. If the current process continues, for a decade and a half in a quarter of the village, only monuments will remain as evidence of life before now. These are devastating data that suggest a new agrarian and social reform is needed, which would allow for the development of agriculture in the out-of-town environments in which more than 40% of Serbian citizens live. When Minister Krkobic talks about the village, you rightly think that the village is a necessary school, infirmary, post office, home of culture, cooperatives, church, but also all infrastructures that involve a decent life – roads, waterway, sewerage, ataric roads, access to the Internet and all that would keep young people in the country. It is therefore the obligation of all ministries to plan funds for these purposes in part of their competences. When we say that the funds are defined for the village small and large, it is right to say that the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Programme for Rural Development of Serbia will be based on the plan "Serbia by 2025", which provides for five billion euros for five thousand kilometers of local roads, three billion euros for sewers and waterways in 80 local self-government south of Sava and Danube, an additional 300m euros for agriculture, 86m EU for irrigation, 50m for the purchase of tractors and other funds that will be installed by the Ministry of Agriculture in its programmes for the restoration and resuscitation of the Serbian village, through strategic surveillance programmes for the village and rural population, by proposing a measure of activities to improve the living and rural development, care and promotion of traditions and cultural heritage in rural areas, projects in co-operation with the EU. The ministry's activities will also be aimed at buying empty houses in rural areas, for the assignment of couples who decide to live in the country. Next, a free agricultural land allocation for up to 50 hectares of young couples, without compensation. Then, the adaptation of existing homes of culture or cooperative homes in gravity villages to multi-functional facilities with the necessary facilities and services for younger and older populations; the economic and financial incentives programme for agricultural, craft, tourism, social and other cooperatives, in order to improve the business of old and newly established cooperatives; information and technological support in rural areas; computer learning equipment in rural schools with internet and connection; strengthening of signals in rural areas; support for the most significant cultural manifestations in rural areas, as well as the launch of new manifestations that foster tradition and revive social life in the countryside; additional activities to improve the social standard of rural population, the procurement of mini-buses and other driving activities. For all projects, adequate educational and promotional activities are envisaged, which aim to bring the most extensive audience closer to the values and opportunities of life and work in the country. I call on all MPs to influence local authorities in their local self-government to help rebuild and revive Serbia's villages in co-operation with the village's ministry and thus create adequate conditions for more than 40% of the population living in the country. In the voting day, the PUPS Parliamentary Group will support this law and other laws and vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1266	Thanks, buddy. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1267	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I would like to make an opening statement. During the debate on budget rebalancing, the SPS Parliamentary Group made it very clear that we believe that the budget rebalance for 2020 is a realistic view of the situation, in fact a realistic insight of the problem, that it represents the present and that it is a path that leads to the future, and the future is exactly what you ministers were talking about – the realisation of the objectives defined by the "Serbia 2025" plan. When we spoke to the representatives of the Fiscal Council and tried to convince them that we do not have a historical deficit, they say, in fact, we have a deficit, but that this deficit is not expensive, that we do not have a deficit because the government of the Republic of Serbia has led a poor fiscal policy, but because of the crown, but regardless, we have good economic indicators and data that confirm and guarantee that Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do better and more, that the controlled deficit, that the public debt is below 60% of GDP and that we are moving in parameters that are actually going to be guaranteed what we are talking about today, which is that we have a balanced development budget for 2021. Economic policy which is not socially responsible, in our opinion, is not a good policy and therefore we fully support the draft budget, we support the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, because the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, above all, a citizen of Serbia. Do you know what essential issues are today when we talk about economics and when we talk about the period facing Serbia, which the whole world faces, which is a period of great uncertainty, an unpredictable year? The main questions are whether there were layoffs, whether the factories were closed and whether what you were talking about, ministers, for a moment, foreign investors gave up investing in Serbia? So, no factories have been closed in Serbia, no workers have been fired in Serbia, and as far as foreign direct investors are concerned, you are absolutely right, I will just supplement. So no foreign investor has given up investing in Serbia. Some plans and programmes have been moved for several months, which is completely justified, but for the first nine months of this year, foreign direct investment was about 1.9 billion euros. So, out of the total amount of foreign direct investment, which comes to the Balkans, about 60% is directed towards Serbia and it is no wonder that the Financial Times has been putting Serbia at the top for several years when it comes to attracting foreign investors. So we showed, you're right, we're safe, we've shown stability. The government of the Republic of Serbia has had a responsible attitude towards the economy, and it will certainly make Serbia an even more attractive investment destination in the coming period. So we avoided that blackest scenario that appeared in many countries in Europe and the world. Serbia has allocated 700 billion dinars or six billion euros, which is 12.7% of GDP, from the beginning of the pandemic, from March to today, for measures aimed at the standard of living of citizens, which are directed towards the economy, of course, I mean this new package of measures. So the question arises: has one country in the world and in Europe accepted this much of the burden of crisis on itself and has it allocated this much resources? Where's the funds from? Just from the results of the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose foundations were laid in 2014. So thanks to this reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, a few years ago we had a surplus, when they laughed at us, when we had a debate here on budget rebalancing, not because we have expenditures, but because we have surpluses. So we had a few years back surplus, we have a public debt under control and we have a record unemployment rate in the third quarter of this year 9%, and I'll remind you in 2013 it was 25.9%. So today the growth rate of our economy will be the highest in Europe. It's a live policy. This is what we also talked about with representatives of the Fiscal Council, when we were trying to convince them that economic policy cannot be reduced to just numbers, to dry figures, but to life and that it must be directed towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is living politics and what is the result of living politics? It is the hospital in Batajnica, whose stone foundation was set up in August, a few days ago opened, 930 beds. They said it cost 2,000 euros per metre square. It can be twisted minds, thinking about making some money during this period. No, it cost, as far as I know, 1,131 euros per metre square, but these are the visible results of one responsible policy and when these independent bodies say – not transparently. So, in an unpredictable year, in an extremely difficult year, in the year when we faced huge challenges, it means, with the biggest health challenge, whose end is not yet being seen, we've never had a more transparent year when we're specifically talking about economic and financial indicators and what the government did in the previous time period. When it comes to the budget, I have already said, balanced development, set on a real basis, we are setting the basis for growth in the next period of time, because a country facing a crisis in this way, which in this way is going through a crisis, the system works and not only works, but it has very good results and economic indicators and there is reason to look optimisticly at a period that is before us and of course has a perspective to be successful. We think it's good, despite the criticisms that we could hear from members of the Fiscal Council during yesterday and the public debate, that a high rate of growth is foreseen. We think it is good that the scale is raised, that the goals are raised, because that is good above all for Serbia's future. The growth rate is high, but it's not invaluable. The most difficult economic year we will end up with the highest rate of growth, i.e. the minimum rate of drop 0.6 to 1% and, on the other hand, the budget is aimed at raising the standard of living, but the budget is, as I said, developmental. We agree that the two main pillars are when we talk about the 2021 budget. The first is aimed at the standard of living of citizens, and through an increase in pensions and wages in the public sector. There's already been a word about it, a Swiss model that is fully justified at the moment. An increase in pensions of 5.9% early next year. Increase the minimum labour price by 6.6%. On the other hand, when we talk about medical staff, a 5% increase in healthcare and other public sector employees 3.5% and an additional 1.5% in early April, the first April. It's not a April joke. So definitely an increase, a total of 5% for public sector wages. A responsible approach was made to make this budget, not to endanger macroeconomic stability and not to increase public debt and not behave, as the Fiscal Council said the government was not cautious. I think that was the definition in the Fiscal Council Report. So this government is not acting irresponsiblely and irrationally in terms of taking expensive loans to finance salaries and pensions, which happened in the period behind us. Salaries and pensions are financed from real revenue sources. The strategy, when criticising salary increases in the public sector, is precisely going to raise wages in the public sector, as these salaries are pulling pay growth in the private sector. The confirmation is in reaching the average salary today in Serbia. It is 500 or 520 euros, correct me if I am wrong, at the end of this year. So it will be 500 euros, which has been a defined goal. Salary growth this year, despite the pandemic, and inflation ranged from 1.5% to 2%. The objective of the 2025 plan, therefore, definitely in 2025, is the average salary in Serbia 900 euros, the average pension in Serbia 430 euros, and we welcome the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia -- each saved dinar aimed at increasing wages and pensions, towards improving citizens' living standards. That's how you increase demand. Citizens buy more and business activity is stimulated by demand, further development and economic activity. Speaking of increasing wages in the public sector, I also talked about it during yesterday's debate at the Finance Committee's session. So we keep listening, even by some independent bodies, that we have a lack of professional, competent, professional people, as our young ones leave. Let me ask you, who in the local self-governments, and most of us coming from some local self-government, from municipalities and cities, with high professional training, a competent expert to work for 35 or 40 grand and to bear responsibility? How can we keep young people in Serbia if we do not want to raise salaries in the public sector? So continue to raise wages and pensions, but also minimum labour prices. The minimum labour price was 15,000 dinars in 2012, while on January 1st, there will be 32,000 dinars. The second pillar is fully supported, which is an increase in capital investment, encouraging the realization of projected GDP growth 6%, 330 billion is 5.5% of GDP. So much will be allocated to capital investments. As far as the period behind us has been concerned, specifically in this year which was unpredictable and difficult, one piece of information suggests that from January to November capital investments amounting to 146 billion dinars have been realised. That is 14.7% more compared to the same period of the previous year. It has been shown that when the state encourages investment, private investments, domestic and foreign investors are encouraged to continue to invest and thus create a good basis for 2022 and 2023. The stability of the currency is successfully held. I also want to look back. So foreign reserve never bigger, as well as gold reserves. Dinara course stable. I think it's the same or stronger in the March month period, when the pandemic started. This is the result of responsible economic policy On every criticism the best answer are numbers and reality, facts do not support criticism, any criticism of the budget proposal for 2021. When it comes to subsidies, which was also a criticism of the Fiscal Council. We disagree with the position of the Fiscal Council. On the contrary, we believe that subsidies are necessary, because subsidies are not only used to stimulate the economy, but also many institutions that are important to our country. So this is where we think of the development of entrepreneurship, farmers through IPARD 4.7 billion dinars, for the purchase of fiscal devices to all go to the burden of the state. We'll also talk about the fiscalization law, and we talked about it yesterday during a public debate. So, an extremely important law that in a year, a year and a half will surely save far more resources than what is currently being allocated to fiscalization. He, along with the e-facture law, should enable online monitoring of traffic, and will certainly curb the grey economy in Serbia. I guess that's the goal of all of us. Then how are we going to disable and if there's one reasonable reason to disable and abolish subsidies? Subsidies also go to the Innovation Action Fund, for the Centre for the Promotion of Science, Science and Technology Parks in Belgrade, Nis and Cačka. Support is given for the work of the institution of culture. Well, do we have to stop all this? Does life need to stop in Serbia? If that's the position of the Fiscal Council, let's just keep it on their stand, because usually their attitudes time deny, time and results deny. When it comes to public enterprises, another criticism of the Fiscal Council "we are constantly talking about restructuring, nothing is about public enterprises". That's not true. So the state only has its priorities. And what was the priority? The company, which owns most of the states and how much of the open problems that existed, has been solved, in particular, Bor, Majdanpek, Smederevo, a strategic solution. Then, starting in 2014, the government of the Republic of Serbia is drawing up guidelines for the development of annual programmes for their business. This certainly has also contributed to more efficient business control and control of planned costs. Given that public enterprises, for example, ended in 2014 with a loss of 65 billion dinars, and that the situation is far better now, it speaks quite enough about the policy the government has towards public enterprises. And what does restructuring mean? What do they expect from us when they say the restructuring of public enterprises? That we're firing citizens of Serbia today? Well, this government doesn't have such a policy, it has a socially responsible policy. We agree, rationalization, more efficient public enterprises, but also socially responsible relationships, above all. So the government has long-term goals. The government has a strategy. It's true, there are problems, but it's not something that's insecure and that's insurmountable right now. They could be heard today during the debate and some criticism at the expense of the draft budget law, above all, that no public opinion was heard. Well, we believe that when a debate was held that we had during yesterday, where every MP could participate, and we had a very competent and professional meeting headed by the Minister, Governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, when we have such a debate and when we have such a dialogue that is certainly useful, and we have it with the MPs, so what are we MPs? Well, we're the people's government, aren't we? We have the legitimacy and trust of citizens to talk and to speak on their behalf in parliament, to represent their views. Then how come we didn't have a public hearing? The other problem is whether you had time to come yesterday at 11:00, because you don't pay travel expenses if you're not a member of the Committee, that's another question. That's another question. But you were certainly able to participate in a public debate and that if you have suggestions and suggestions, you would say just before the debate began. Also, when we talk, Minister, about underdeveloped municipalities, you said how isolated it was, but there's one more thing, we have a new ministry, a new ministry without portfolios that will specifically, correct me if I'm wrong, and I know that the budget has been adopted and that certain projects are already being discussed, that projects are directed right through the municipalities that are fourth, fall into that fourth category, and how familiar I am with the municipalities that have been spoken of today belong to that fourth category, and that they will have the opportunity to come through the projects, except for those funds that you mentioned, to even more resources for the realisation of projects when we're talking specifically about underdeveloped municipalities. So it is not true that the government has an irresponsible and unserious relationship to undeveloped municipalities. The government attaches equal importance and importance to every municipality and city in Serbia, and that is quite clear. It's one topic if you want to show it as politics and if you're talking to your electoral body, I don't mind, but that should clearly be said here. So, I don't agree when someone says, with all due respect to their colleagues, but it's not one of the important laws. Budget is the most important law. Budget is life. If we have an unreal budget, we have an unreal life. Since we have a completely realistic draft budget, a proposal drawn up and defined on a realistic basis, of course the SPS Parliament Club, that is what I said during yesterday, without thinking, will support this draft budget law, and we will certainly participate in the debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1268	Thank you. Minister Sinisha Mali called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1269	Thank you very much. Just one brief comment on what you were saying about public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. So, not suspiciously, public enterprises, state-owned enterprises are doing much better today than it was seven, eight, nine or ten years ago. What is our obligation as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to further improve their business for two reasons each year. The first is that all state-owned enterprises, all public enterprises, improve the quality of their services, so the services they provide to Serbian citizens, are better year by year. On the other hand, also that some of the money they make, not to be lost, but to earn, to invest in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course, from the budget, we also finance highways and the construction of hospitals and schools and increased pensions and increased wages. So I just want to give you one piece of information that's very important to you. In 2008, the total number of public enterprises, state-owned enterprises that paid part of their profits to the Republic of Serbia's budget, totals six. So believe it or not in 2008 only six companies were able to pay some of their money in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Last year, 2019, that number was 55. So nine times more companies are profitable or have enough money to share their profits except in the projects and investments they have, that 50% of the law says they are investing in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This tells you enough that the data on how effective the governance of public enterprises has been improved and what is very important, over the past few months, the government of the Republic of Serbia, this is new information for you, the government of the Republic of Serbia, together with the EBRD, is working intensively on a new governance strategy for state-owned public enterprises. I expect in the next ten days that the proposal for the action plan will be held at a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that from next year we will start to apply it, and once again, public enterprises are no longer our major fiscal risks. You remember, Serbian citizens and honourable MPs, when we had to raise money every month to support RTB Bora and Jelizara Smederevo's work on the basis of the extremely good friendly relations that President Vukic has with the Chinese president, we found strategic partners for the two companies. We provided employment, secured those jobs, secured the future for both Smederjevo and Bor, so also for the east of Serbia. On the other hand, we've reduced the subsidies and grants we've made year by year from month to month with these companies. This is just another example of responsible economic policy. So in 2009, only six companies paid their profits into the budget. Here in 2019 55 and that number is growing year by year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1270	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1271	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, here at the end of this debate when we speak to representatives of parliamentary groups, we can say that when we look at the budget, it is, we all say, a developmental one, but we say that it is socially progressive and macroeconomically balanced. When we say that it is socially progressive, it says that in addition to this social responsibility that we have for everyone in society, and that's especially the part about wages and pensions, we have to say that at the time of the pandemic and in the year that we have to leave and to enter, we actually want high growth rates just to minimise all the problems we have in the economy today, caused by a pandemic that hasn't been recorded in the world so far. Many countries will go out with this year with a 6% drop in their economy, some of 12%. Serbia will come out with 1% decline, i.e. it will be the best in Europe when you actually see growth alone during the year, since we have had a complete decline and a halt in economic activity in the time of month and a half, when not only we but also 27 EU members, we have practically declared quarantine and stop all activities due to the Kovid 19 pandemic. So next year's budget is based on certain assumptions. Two basic assumptions are that the deficit will be 3% and that growth will be 6% next year. Based on this, all revenues, which amount to 1.336 billion dinars, which are 3.5% higher than this year and expenditures that are 1.514.8 billion dinars, which are 15% lower than this year by looking at rebalancing, account for the 3% deficit on 178 billion dinars. What does that tell us? That tells us in fact that this deficit we're showing that from 8.9% of the deficits we adopted on the rebalance a little less than a month ago we're bringing that deficit down to 3%. This means that this growth, which we are planning out of 6%, should go from real investment that is at the highest level in these capital investments, but obviously also based on the inflows of foreign, direct investments, because we had the opportunity to hear that the foreign direct investment inflow was actually planned for this year was 1.9%. Yesterday, we heard for the first time that this projection, based on real indicators, the National Bank said that in 2020, with an inflow of foreign direct investment of 2.3 billion euros, shows essentially that Serbia is going towards this expansion and high growth rates and that it is a fully justified precondition and assumption based on which this budget has been established. After all, it is the Fiscal Council in its assessment that we have stable public finances. They say in their criticism that it may be too much of an optimistic scenario. However, on the basis of those assumptions and exposures and ministers and governors of the NBS, we see that these assumptions are fully justified because growth and development will go from increased exports. After all, we also go to increased spending based on salary and pension growth, so we have a growth of wages that 5% immediately starts from January 1st for healthcare workers, 3.5% refers to civil servants by April 1st, from April 1st, even 1.5%, which means that everyone will have a 5% increase, and from April 1st, next to this 5%, we will also approve as state members of the Serbian Army that will go to a 10% increase, with not going linearly, that applies to all employees at once, but those who have the lowest wages will have the highest increases, and those who have the highest wages have the lowest increase. So we're going to try to make one balance as a country to people who are our security forces, who have their jobs and who are in very responsible jobs. What's important today when we talk about pension growth is that we have complete respect for the Swiss formula, which we've talked about so much, initiated by both the Fiscal Council and the Ministry of Finance. So it only works when the country's growth rate is 4%. Everything below 4% has no Swiss formula. This means that we, as a state, planned that these growth rates would surely go over 4%. That's why we don't even understand why the Fiscal Council is saying that 4% should be forecasted, because then they're saying there's no pension increase, and on the other hand, they're saying in their assessment that all they need to do is increase pensions and just increase capital investments. So somewhere in their projections, I don't think they're still standing at that point of view, which is that we have a real possibility as a society, as an economy that we have this capacity to really progress very quickly. Serbia's 2025 plan planned in December 2019, when we didn't even know that the crown would appear with such great challenges in the economy, is for us a strategic plan which obviously in the budget for 2021 was painted through investments that we had the opportunity to hear in value of 330 billion, besides those relating to travel infrastructure, the continuation of the Moravian Corridor, the continuation of the Preljin – Požega road, Nis – Merdare, Ruma – Šabac – Požega, we have the beginning of an important project, which is the metro in Belgrade, which after 50 years next year will practically enter its realisation. So, for 50 years, Serbia has been talking about building a subway in Belgrade, 50 years we've seen as the capital of Serbia that other capitals have long had subways, how they're using, how they're discharging this traffic in Belgrade, I'm talking about protecting the environment, and you just haven't had that opportunity by 2012 to start such strategic projects at all because some of them have been thinking about how the Ada bridge as a strategic project worth over 600m euros to pour into their own companies' pockets and become some rich people, like Gilas, who reports property from 1.625, and now 1,725 square meters in real estate in Belgrade and Serbia, and then you come to the conclusion that it's not realistic to promise these strategic projects unless you really work on them as politicians, and then as managers to run the city of Belgrade. What has proved is that political responsibility is needed by one political party and someone who is at the head of the political party and when he was prime minister, such as Aleksandar Vukic, and now that he is president of Serbia, is showing this responsibility every day for his and his foreign and domestic policies. It is based on this responsibility and the strength that we had to implement economic reforms and fiscal consolidation in 2014 through 2016, which is why we can, in fact, now talk about these results. Yesterday on the Committee, we had the opportunity to hear from the governor that if the measures were not adopted at the moment when private sector support, in April, May, June of this 2020, we simply couldn't discuss today's 6% growth projections for next year, about 3% of the deficit, to return three years back to economic results and not even be able to talk today about an increase in wages and pensions. Therefore, it takes a truly political will, a political discipline to fulfill what you promise Serbian citizens. How much does it cost to have a political party's policy shown right in the elections. They are citizens who assess whether you have fulfilled this plan, whether they are satisfied with the implementation of this political programme and simply give you support or not. When we talk about the growth of earnings, and that's what one of the criticisms is when they talk about growth, the fiscal council never agrees with the increase in earnings, it only agrees to increase wages and investments, and we should say what we have had to hear is that with this increase in profits, it will cover only 10% of GDP, i.e. pensions will cover 10.4%, which shows in fact that this growth, which is projected for next year, should also receive support from international institutions, and it is given as such and the IMF to look at all possibilities. At the end of the day, we got agreement for both this budget and this kind of increase. So that space was used to raise consumption in the future and that growth in earnings, it should be said, as important information, that in the past period for the private sector went in double terms compared to the state. Thus, the growth of profits in the private sector was 28.2% and 14% in the state sector. Therefore, we think that this is indeed the kind of budget plan that has been drawn up extremely rationally, efficiently and effectively and will give full results in the following year. What is important to say and to point out from the good business of public enterprises, which showed that from 2015 to 2019 they had positive balances, and you can see this from their reports in the APR, means 50% of the income, i.e. from each public enterprise's profits, are required to pay into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, after fiscal consolidation and economic reforms were carried out, four times in a row, we had a surplus in the budget and then public enterprises had positive financial reports. This means that they have had a certain increase in wages within the public sector accordingly. As a result, there is no salary increase in next year's budget when we talk about employees in public enterprises. And that's one indicator of how rational you are when it comes to increased wages in the state sector. So the deficit shows us the stability of the state register. The response of Serbia's economy is precisely to all these challenges that hit us in 2020, and this is actually a picture and an opportunity to look at the economy and standards and investments in the next 2020. The tables and figures themselves cannot be viewed completely independent of the daily life of Serbian citizens. We fight for the lives of all citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown that this struggle is day-to-day, selfless and we think that we should simply support this draft budget in full capacity as SNS MPs and as a support to the government that has shown that only if we have a vision, a mission, a strategy to implement this kind of plan, because when we say that this is our new reality then it means new knowledge and new our enthusiasm. That is why at the session when we discuss the amendments and after the debate is completed, we will support this draft budget for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1272	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1273	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I warmly welcome you all. The adoption of the budget is one of the most important points and most important topics during one year in the National Assembly and therefore deserves all the attention given to it. Certainly, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in the National Assembly will give support to this budget, expressing understanding of what is covered, given all this crisis situation, where it certainly could not be answered by all wishes, needs and demands, but I am particularly pleased that those projects that have already begun will be continued, that the crisis we are facing will not endanger these projects in the entire area of the country, especially in the Sandzak area, when it comes to road construction of Novi Pazar – Tutin. Also when it comes to the construction of a further pipeline from Bruce, via Kopalnik, Novi Pazar and Tutin. This is, therefore, good news, we certainly expect other projects to begin, announced projects to continue, and that is what we can happily convey to the people as MPs. What I would draw attention to is about the budget, but it is possible to make a certain correction from out-of-bugue funds, and on the subject of helping economic operators, i.e. employees of various business entities that the government has given over the past months on several occasions through various kinds of assistance and what was incomprehensible to us, and we have received a question from citizens, is – why are religious communities and churches not covered by this programme? Since they are subject to specific status in relation to certain rights and obligations, but when it comes to community employees, especially smaller communities that have very serious education systems within their organisations, this means that they employ a very large number of people, so we got some kind of complaint, or questions and regrets why they were not covered by this programme? I suppose that some religious communities, namely the dominant Serbian Orthodox Church, can see it through various reports, receive very serious funds through various projects, not only through the Justice Ministry's Office, but also through concrete projects from the government itself, so that it may have the opportunity to deal with this problem. But when it comes to smaller religious communities and churches, however, the problems are much bigger, and I would therefore ask the government, or the competent ministry to help the issue in principle and in a moral sense, but also legally and above all, to make it very serious and to find a way to help legal entities within churches and religious communities in a way that helps other legal persons, i.e. economic operators, in order to make it easier for them to overcome this crisis and overcome it in a way that has been an aid intensity that has definitely helped many economic operators to at least for the time being, and hopefully, in the future, manage themselves successfully with the challenges of the economic crisis. So, I will remind you, and it is known to all of us that the Constitution and the competent laws are explicit on the full equality of churches and religious communities, and certainly that this must not and should not remain exclusively on the declarative level, but should be implemented, and the issue of financing churches and religious communities is one of the important issues, very important from the aspect of the need, but also very sensitive if we have a certain gap in equal treatment. So, once again, the initiative to move forward as soon as possible, if it's possible to replace what hasn't happened in the past months, but certainly from now on, we're going to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1274	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, in accordance with Art. 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The next on the list of registered MPs is MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1276	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, there is one applicable law in Serbia, the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted as part of meeting the conditions in the European integration process in 2018. Article 5 of this law defines development planning documents such as a development plan, an investment plan, a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, an AP development plan and units of local self-government. The law also regulates the adoption of the development plan as a long-term development document, plans in the Republic of Serbia adopted by the National Assembly. So this is one of the highest hierarchical acts just below the Constitution, which, as I said, is adopted by the National Assembly. Why is this law important to the budget? When drawing up a development plan, this system is coordinated with international commitments, including commitments from the EU accession process, the specificity of the planning, programming, use of funds from European pre-accession funds, international development assistance, etc. is taken into account. This law states in its Article 55 that all applicable documents of public policy will be brought into line with this law when the first amendments and additions of these documents are made. One of these acts is certainly one of the most important things to be brought in one year, which is the budget. Now, the Law on the Plane System in Article 53 makes it clear that the Development Plan will be adopted no later than 1 January 2020. And all of this would have been perfectly arranged if this government, including the Assembly, hadn't broken the bill on the planning system. This plan has not only not been adopted by 1 January 2020, but has not been adopted by today, which means that the law is constantly being violated for almost a year. I don't know if it was adopted at some secret session, but I know that we haven't considered that plan and that we can't get to it. The violation of this law may best show how unplanned, not systemically is actually done here, and the worst is not transparent. Without these plans, we do not have those basic parameters that can measure the success of one, the other, the third governments, especially because of the fact that the adoption of this law has ceased to apply the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. This is proof of how many laws are passed here just for the sake of order. I'm not going to qualify as real or not, but they're reading what you suggested to us we haven't succeeded in any particular reason why anyone from Sandzak or Presevo Valley should vote for this. If we start in a row starting with a list of capital projects, we see that in this, as in the next two years, no development project in Sandzak is planned. This is particularly important if we take into account the devastated state of health system in Sandzak and if we consider the fact that in the next few days, for the next few years, we will actually have great temptations and pressures on the health system. That is why it is unacceptable for us to find no place in this draft budget for the project of building a clinical centre in Novi Pazar. I think that anyone who has seen the conditions in which our citizens are being treated and how many citizens are gravitating that regional centre clearly why this project had to be one of the priority projects in this budget, or the budget proposal for 2021. What I don't understand is why other MPs from our cities don't stand up for this clinical center. Whether it is representatives of Bosniaks or Serbs, both will be treated at the clinical centre. He should be using all of our citizens. All of our citizens have been treated in devastated, destroyed corridors. I'm sorry to see that we are the only ones here fighting for this clinical center and because you see our struggle as some kind of provocation. Do we need to share that request on ours and theirs? Same case with the highway, same case with the railroad. Anyway, I need to stay on the health system for a little while longer. The point also discusses giving consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2021. Why did this plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund not provide for a refund of the costs to citizens who have been paying out of their pockets for the past months even though they had health insurance? Thousands and thousands of our citizens, despite health insurance, had to buy antibiotics, vitamins, pay for the infusion, and even the arrival of technicians home to include that infusion. It cost hundreds, including thousands of euros in a family in Sandzak, but also across Serbia. There is much to be resented by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, but such behaviour allows for the absolute monopoly it holds. This situation must change, but for starters, it must insist on refunding all the costs that the citizens had because they had to pay Kovid 19 out of their own pockets, even if they did so with civil lawsuits against the Fund. When it comes to the construction of road and railway infrastructure, it is commendable that the funds for the construction of the highway E 763 Preljina-Požega are defined. It is a highway that will later connect the citizens of Sandzak both with Belgrade and Podgorica through Duga Poljana, and later with the network of roads to Sarajevo, Pristina, etc. However, no funds have been provided for the Požega to Bolar stock, and a special purpose plan is also needed to move towards expropriation. For regional co-operation on both economic and social terms, good roads play an extremely important and important role, and we are pleased that we were the drivers of this project and active participants, because as part of the government's position in the ministry and from the ministry's budget we have just paid for the construction of a project documentation for the construction of this share that is now foreseen by the budget. Rehabilitation of the New Pazar-Tutin Road also deserves praise. Thanks to Serbia and Turkey's good co-operation, residents of the two towns in Sandzak will be able to get the way they deserve very soon. He'll get a 21st-century journey, and I hope it becomes a city very soon. We expect that the road route Novi Pazar – Sjenica will soon find its place in another budget. As far as railways are concerned, we cannot accept the fact that even after more than 100 years of New Market's drive to connect with the railway system this item cannot find its place in the budget. In order for Novi Pazar to connect with the rest of the country, but also with the world, it is necessary to build a 20km rail line. Unfortunately, there are no funds planned for the construction of the Alexandrovac pipeline – Kopalnik – Novi Pazar – Tutin. In recent months, citizens of Novi Pazar have been exposed daily to air that is one of the most polluted in the world, and therefore this project is of paramount importance to all citizens of Novi Pazar, Tutin and the whole of Sandzak. In the end, I want to look back at the funding of national councils. The very name of this budget line is unacceptable to us. It says – Donations to NGOs. I don't know which way this is in order to draw attention in this home that national councils are not NGOs, that it is under the Constitution and the laws of this country the authority of the minority self-government elected in the direct elections. They are 23, and they represent almost one third of the country's citizens and it is unacceptable to define their status through grants to NGOs. The co-ordination of national councils, following a meeting with the resolution minister, addressed a letter requesting to give up that planned 20% reduction. You, Minister, earlier in the debate said that during this week, you would hope to return these funds to the government this week and return to their work. However, they also demanded that their resources be doubled in this 2021 budget proposal, since national councils, although not part of their competence, although health care is not within the scope of their authority, have helped citizens and the health system to get over this challenge with the coronary virus. It has put their work at great risk. So, by amendment, we have tried to intervene in this item, where we have sought, where we have submitted the request of these 23 national councils of 23 national minorities living in Serbia, to double their funds for the following year. I hope that during the debate in particular, you will respect that request. For all the above, I would like to say in the end that we in Voting Day will not support this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1277	I thought you would, since everything was appreciated, but good. How did you start talking? We'll do it in the end and then we won't vote. But, well, my disappointment isn't that great. Let's move on. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1278	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a brief look at this and give a brief answer to some of the things we've had a chance to hear. First, information for you, in December of last year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia voted in a guarantee for "Serbia" to build a pipeline from Alexandrovac to Tutin. The papers are ongoing, as you know. There is still some part that concerns the expropriation that needs to be completed, but the government of the Republic of Serbia has fully stepped behind the project. The arrival of the pipeline is yet to be expected, both you and we, further economic development, the economic development of that part of Serbia. We'll stay behind that project. As I said, the National Assembly has already confirmed that guarantee. What's very important to me, just before I said so, too, and the last time we had the opportunity to communicate, I promised we'd help the National Council of National Minorities. On Friday last week, we received a request for an additional 20.1m dinar, and we will also honour that request and transfer that money to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the National Council of National Minorities, on Thursday. What I won't be long now, since my time is running out, I just want to tell you, we're trying, you haven't been in the O.R. before, that whenever some local self-government is running projects to finish these projects and do it. Just before, I finished the reconstruction of the elementary school "Vuk Karadzic" in August 2019, the school "Skenderbag" in Presevo in August 2019. The first one cost 78 million dinars, the second one cost 59 million dinars. Ibrahim Candi primary school in Presevo will be completed by the end of this year, 147m dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We reconstructed the home of health in Medvedja. You have yet another information that is very important, which is the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the budget through the current budget reserve. Here, if you look, just this year, so in the biggest crisis year, the blackest crisis year for the entire world economy, the government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out another 10 million dinars for the Medvedje municipality, 20 million for Presevo, for Novi Pazar 191 million dinars, Sjenica 25 million, Tutin 10. So, only this year in November, in December of this month, these municipalities received an additional 250m dinar from the government of the Republic of Serbia for liquid liquidity, the completion of capital projects and assistance for whatever local self-government this aid was needed. Last year, New Market 80 million, Shadow 10, Tutin 10, Bear 10, Bujanovac 10. In 2018, Medvedja 20, Bujanovac 20, Novi Pazar 150, Sjenica 40, Tutin 20. So, just to be completely open and transparent, the government of the Republic of Serbia is helping every local self-government that needs help. This is not small money, these are money that local self-governments have also run for help for various problems or projects they have had, and that's where the help and projects have been received. That says enough how much we think about everyone the same way. Just a moment ago, you said we should be doing more capital investment. I agree, let's run for office. When we already have a record budget of 330 billion dinars for capital investments, let's run for more similar projects such as the construction of the Alexandrovac pipeline – Tutin, such as the construction of the Senica road – Tutin etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1279	Who's calling? National MP Ilija Matejic is asking for a word. On what basis? I'm just sorry, whose name are you speaking for? Are you a group chief or an authorised representative? [[The People's MP Ilija Matejic throws, but you can't hear or understand.]] I'm sorry, I'd really like to give you my word, but, uh, you're not on the list of authorizeds, so, uh, no one mentioned you personally. Let's get on with the list. MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1280	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, if a government organization is a government, then it corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and national minority councils are independent bodies, so they cannot possibly be government organisations, not even the level of government. But let's start talking about the budget. I'm happy for this information you've presented about local self-government and projects behind the government of the Republic of Serbia, and you're right, it's not small money, as colleagues from the AP Vojvodina like to say. I am quite sure that the vast majority of local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, on various grounds, is looking for certain funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. And there's this non-intentional transfer that we pay them every year. I wish our local self-governments, including those from which the Bosniak population is mostly, would not hand over requests for the grant of funds for non-intentional transfers. To explain to the citizens, you know what it is, a non-purpose transfer is that local self-government can spend money on its own free will. Most often the vast majority of non-intentional transfers end up for salaries, or covering some losses often in public enterprises, where the same local self-government is the founder. I would be more hurtful if it were dedicated transfers based on projects, that not only those who exercise power in such local self-governments would benefit, but also citizens, whose name they exercise power in. I am absolutely sure that residents, citizens and in Pogorevec, both in Smederev and in Petrovac on Mlavi and in Novi Pazar, would be happier and happier if money was spent in this way. In this budget for 2021, it is noted that serious resources continue to be given to the health care system and that at the moment it requires an epidemiological crisis with which Serbia is burdened. But you'll always have, as much money as you can spare, you'll always have dissatisfaction, no matter how much money you make. Now I've heard that it's treatment from Kovid, that it costs citizens in their pocket, and that even that basic medical care must pay. But I still can't agree with that. I can't, I just finished that episode in my life, and I know I didn't pay for anything from medical supplies, and there's no one in Serbia. I will also return to that later, but just to mention, according to some information provided by the Fiscal Council, Serbia has the least hospital beds in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Then I have to ask one other question, and how does Serbia, which has the least hospital beds in Central and Eastern Europe, currently have the most citizens compared to the number of people treated in these hospitals? It's not just an arbitrary data that I'm giving, because the level of this secondary health care, which is highly burdened by the Covid epidemic, is at such a level that I can say that we have relative to the number of people and the number of least fatalities infected. Not only in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but in the territory of the whole of Europe. I guess that's how we managed to adapt our health system in a relatively short time to the situation where the whole country and its citizens are. What is also to be praised in the Republic of Serbia's budget is that it also deals with the social work, and it concerns salaries and pensions for 2021, and it seems to me that this is where the biggest controversy in society is being conducted today, not here amongst the MPs, it is obvious that Dragan Gilas has found others on their behalf who will talk about whether at the meetings of the congregation working bodies, whether at public service, whether in funds, media, etc. It's obvious that Dragan Gilas has found someone else. The fiscal council, as one state body, which is independent in its work, but also corresponds to the National Assembly and to every Budget Law, the Rebalancing Act, financial and other laws, must give its opinion to the National Assembly and assess the effects of adopting such a law. This is what I hold in my hand some paper, which is everything, just not what the business of the Fiscal Council is, everything else is, and politics, and I can say amateurism, written, signed. I appreciate Mr. Pavel Petrovic, and I will be, taking into account when I talk about his opinions and estimates and his age, but I cannot feel that in this way the government of the Republic of Serbia must attack the right and good policies. Now, let me say, at the beginning, the first thing that goes into the eyes, says that the biggest structural permanent problem within the 2021 budget, which will be difficult to remove, is over-separation for subsidies and wages in the public sector and pensions, of course. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, in the last three decades, life in Serbia has not been a bit easy. Apparently, because he had a comfortable life, someone didn't consider how most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live? For the last 30 years, we've had wars and sanctions, and criminal aggression after the pact, at the end of the five-eyed revolution, mutilated the economy by privatization, mutilated the economy and public finances by robbery, and of course it was all reflected in the citizens' standard of living? I'm asking one question, since it's supposed to be too much of a difference between public sector employees and that's also one dance of numbers, what is a public sector, and what are salaries? These numbers are very skillfully tried to manipulate the Fiscal Council, because the public sector is and Serbia's Elektroprivreda, is the EPS financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget? Absolutely not. Are other public enterprises financed from the Republika Srpska budget? Absolutely not. Do they live and work on some market1? Absolutely, yes. They're earning their wages. And those salaries paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, these are the salaries of the administration, these people here that serve us as MPs. Do any of you have any idea how much a person with a 20-year job job, a high-end expert? What is the salary in the National Assembly, or the rest of the administration in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, does anyone know? Does he know that there is less profit than average in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? And these pay increases that are due to take place in 2021, except for members of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, health workers, refer to this administration that, I can say, is one of the jobs and activities that is the weakest paid in Serbia. But that's not what the fiscal council is going to say. They will put them on average with the electricity industry of Serbia, with other public enterprises and say -- well, they live better than everyone else in Serbia, they get money from the budget, and they don't do anything, which, of course, is not true. Now, that's the politics of Pavel Pavlovic and the Fiscal Council which, I can say, does not do its job properly. When you read this, you look at some things that are false. He says subsidies are also paid to the EPS, "Serbia gas", "Petrochemicals" and others. No subsidy was paid to neither the EPS nor the "Serbian gas". Only if it counts on projects such as the "Turkish Stream", i.e. the South Stream. But it's not, my people, running business. It's an investment. It's a project. Petrochemia is a restructuring company that has been mutilated by privatisation and returned to the debt state. Well, as we have solved the problem and Sartida, as we have solved the problem "Bora", we will also solve the problem "Petrochemicals". But it's important to attack something and say it's not good. And that's the problem we've had backwards for, I can tell, for years. Next, constantly, whenever you read their grade, there will always be something to keep quiet about, so that all the results we have are challenged and shown in one rather incorrect way. For example, in each of their estimates back here for years, it has been said that Serbia has recorded a lower growth in gross products compared to Central and Eastern European countries, that we do not have enough investment, that it is not investing enough in infrastructure, that it is not investing enough in environmental protection. And as the data starts, you know what year it is? Since 2010. Since 2010, when the former regime was in power, when we had a negative growth of gross products, or a fall of 3.5%. But that doesn't bother the fiscal council. They won't say that. They say it's not their job. And why don't we look at 2016, 2017, 2018? Why don't we look that even when we implemented fiscal consolidation measures in 2015 we had a slight growth of 1% and in 2016 we had a more serious growth. That fiscal council won't tell you. Also, let me know in which country in the world so far, when fiscal consolidation measures have been implemented, is gross product growth recorded? I don't know, really, about any such land. What else is also very important to keep quiet – most Central and Eastern European countries are EU members. You know, as a candidate for EU membership, Serbia has the right to certain grants called pre-accession funds. But EU member states have the right to EU funds. The relationship is at best for Serbia ten to one. So, for one euro that we get from the EU, members get ten times as much for such projects. Imagine now, I will not mention a single country, when you have to provide two or three billion euros in some period to build a highway, reconstruct the railway, build hospitals, invest in a health system, provide funding sources, and let the EU member get free of charge and you with such an EU member not only keep up, but are in some elements and significantly better. And what does Paul not say? Why doesn't he write it? What does one way to treat us Members is that we are people who do not know that we are thinking for ourselves and we do not understand ourselves at all about the work we do? Come on, I understand for these semi-literate journalists of Gilas' media, so they don't even know how to write what was on board, they don't know what to do, they haven't learned, they haven't even learned to be brought up at home, they're telling the truth, and the other thing is that even when they do, they don't know it. But the fact is that Paule has been representing Dragan Gilas lately. Here's an example. In this assessment of fiscal stability, it is said that it surprises the fact that no funds are provided for RTS and RTS in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It doesn't surprise me at all. Well, we took off the public service, finally, from the back of the public service, we downloaded "Darek Media" and Dragan Gilas. You know what that looked like? The budget separates five or six billion dinars and is paid to the Public Service because it has a secure way of funding for salaries and current costs. Public service at the cost of sales, or we can say freely - and gives seconds to Dragan Gilas, who sells it as an economic-propagandic programme on the market and is garnering huge money. It wasn't from the budget maybe, in an indirect way. Which was then not reported by the Fiscal Council to conduct an analysis of the business of RTS and other public service, as he did, in a rather unprofessional, incorrect way with, say, "Er Serbia". For fellow MPs who have not looked at the score, see, a whole chapter "Er Serbia", a whole chapter. What is the name of this chapter - Is the pandemic the cause of all problems in the business "Er Serbia"? Is this seminar work? What's this? A political pamphlet? What? Is that a grade? I say this is the humiliation of every MP and parliament in general. Do we have any state authorities that should be involved in the business of public enterprises? Well, don't we have a DRI? She's the one who's giving those grades, not the fiscal advice. The other thing is, it's a lie to the truth. If you take a good look at that opinion of the Fiscal Council, you'll see they're making it based on data they're supposed to be unable to verify. See the Budgetary System Act, which regulates the jurisdiction of the Fiscal Council. So, for everything he's interested in, every state body, every ministry, primarily the Ministry of Finance, must provide answers to their demands. Did they ask for it sometime? No, they're not. Do you know why? Well, they wouldn't be able to arm anyone like this, because they'd have all the data, because they'd have to go to a lot of trouble to write a story like this. These are fairy tales they wrote. fairy tales, nothing else. It's obviously some urge to support the former regime's policies and Dragan Gilas. I don't know how to explain it. I can't even explain the masochism of the Public Service, which this Fiscal Council is excelling, and this same Fiscal Council has allowed their existence and their wages and their public enterprises to be threatened by that same Dragan Gilas. The fiscal council kept quiet. For a long time, the second half, which has been conducted in public for the past 100 euros, which the Republic of Serbia, because of the problem in its economy, has given to citizens. People, yes, it cost the Republic of Serbia about 700m euros. That's just as much as Gilas robbed while he was in power in Serbia and then the same Fiscal Council kept quiet about it. All of these measures that we had during 2020, due to overcoming the problems of the economy, individual branches, have yielded their results. They gave their results that Serbia may now have the best result in Europe as regards the economy. It is now the primary thing, how to preserve in the first place the health and lives of our citizens, and in the second place to preserve the economy of which these same citizens live. The secondary one, which is also not a bit insignificant, is that we prepare our economy for the post-crisis period. Of course, Minister, I'm glad that in the 2021 budget you're talking about that part, because the crisis problems will begin in 2021, that our economy will be stable and that the moment it is possible in full capacity it will start working. Let me remind you, in 2008, we also had a financial crisis. The financial crisis was a little baby with a crisis that today in economic terms, not just in health care. Nevertheless, we did not sell five billion euros in foreign exchange reserves to avoid preserving the rate of dinars, as it was then. Let me remind you from 78 dinars, August 2008 to 119,80, August 2012. We didn't have inflation, our factories weren't closed, people weren't losing their jobs, we weren't having a negative GDP. These are all some results with which today very few countries on the globe can boast, and then someone from the Fiscal Council shows up and says that nothing is right? When we discussed budget rebalancing for 2020, because I see it seems to be one of the biggest problems the Fiscal Council has, it's the EPS. Here, they wrote that they received subsidies, which, of course, is not true, I then said that EPS is the largest giant in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that everyone would want to own it, and if they can't own it, at least to exploit it, and then these stories come from various financial organisations, not whether to implement reforms in the EPS, but also to determine how we're going to implement it. You know, where did it go most? It's from the Fiscal Council. Do you know who that came from most? From a member who resigned. And do you know where this former member of the Fiscal Council is working today? Well, in financial organizations. Nothing here is an accident, and nothing happens by accident. It is here that all the measures we are implementing, which are in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but are not in the interest of the former regime, are not in the interest of the tycoon. The fact that we don't let anyone rob the Republic of Serbia anymore, that's the problem with them, and that's why we have opinions like this given by the Fiscal Council. One more thing and I'm done. This is the fifth or sixth opinion of the Fiscal Council in parallel, which not only offends the dignity of the National Assembly but does not give a proper assessment, or anything written in earlier opinions has not proved to be true and incorrect. If someone makes a mistake five times in a row, and for that, they're getting a huge salary next to retirement, it's time for him to resign. This job no longer needs to work, because it is not capable, and the fact that it is not capable, there is no need to hire Milojko Arsic, a former vice governor, who, while being a vice governor, financed the reports of two banks, Vojvodina Development Bank and Agrobanka. He didn't care about their liquidity, and the price of small things -- a billion euros, no less, no more. Now he's the one giving advice to the fiscal council on what the fiscal council needs to write. I wonder if that's what he's getting the fiscal council money for, too. We'll also check that, see if such experts are engaged by the Fiscal Council, to write such false, political pamphlets to the MPs. Because of the world that the government of the Republic of Serbia has done in the past in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because these results are visible, tangible, real, there is no reason not to support this budget in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1281	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Imamovic, I assume you're looking for a replica, but what exposure? (Enis Imamovic: Replication of colleagues Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1282	Thank you, Your Honor. So here, for a few reasons, I misread my exposure. So it's not true that citizens paid out of their pocket treatment. I'm glad my colleague's previous speaker left behind that episode successfully and I'm glad that... I'm not going to say on purpose what he's been using his privileges, because treating the cost of the Fund is not a privilege, it's the right thing to do. Unfortunately, for the citizens, it's quite questionable. I was talking here about the problem that citizens are being challenged by the right to use their health care that they pay for. A colleague may not be aware, but I'm sure the citizens who are watching this and who have paid out of their pocket can confirm these words of mine. The second thing here has been pointed out several times that several hundred million dinars have been transferred to the town of Novi Pazar, and we are just fighting to transfer to the city and other local self-government units non-intentional assets, but you have obviously decided to transfer those funds to your coalition partner in Novi Pazar. Check that out in your interparty relations. We are fighting this, and my appeal and the beginning of the speech was to refer to the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, so perhaps a colleague of previous speakers could help me, since he was vice president of the Assembly in his assembly, to tell me why the Assembly did not adopt a development plan until January 1, 2020, though... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1283	Thank you. The time for the replica is up. Veroljub Arsic: Replica! ) Right to replica, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1284	My colleague, I remember the time, if you forgot, during the former regime when your party president was also participating power, that if someone wanted to receive the injection he had to buy alcohol and cotton, syringe and needle. That's how it was a few years ago. We didn't forget that. Also, I have to tell you that medium-sized patients and severe patients, so those who have health and life are most seriously at risk, have absolutely free treatment of everything, from antibiotics, supplements, vitamins, antipyretics, analgesics and everything else. One of my fellow citizens, who is usually an intern doctor, says this - I see that the state has seriously prepared and I am taking off my hat to President Alexander Vukic. For the first time, I can give a man a medicine with a single dose of 1,500 euros and have enough for every patient who needs this medicine, because this medicine needs to save his life. Is that what we're talking about, or are we talking about vitamins or aspirin? Vitamins and aspirin, is that what we're talking about? Antibiotics? You can't buy an antibiotic without a prescription in free sale. If you buy it with a prescription, it's free. Don't be false. Analgesics and antipyretics have never been on a positive treatment list, and they don't treat, they ease the disease, they tolerate the disease. You'd be cured anyway without it. What he's treating is free and don't be so mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1285	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The time for the replica is up. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1286	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, if you'll excuse me briefly, given that today's topic is very, very serious, just to briefly look at the public debt comment or explanation of the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget of major experts from the former regime, these are top financial experts, cream de la creme experts who led and destroyed Serbia in some previous period. I will show all citizens of Serbia, let them see if they can see what Mr. Alexic wrote on a board today and present to Serbian citizens outside the Serbian Parliament. According to Mr. Aleksic, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, if I am not mistaken, has written 15 billion dinars. So he showed public debt in dinars, he said 15 billion dinars. Then he said -- public debt in 2021, he didn't even say years, but he made a printing mistake and he said -- gydnes, he wrote in dinars, 31 billion dinars, and then he wiped it out, and wrote it in dollars. So, dinars in 2012, dollars in 2021. Then he calculated that it was 62% of GDP, completely wrong of course, and said that so many citizens of the Republic of Serbia were in debt but in euros. The master compared the 2012 dinars, dollars or dinars, whatever he meant here, in 2021, and then said in euros the difference that it all looked like. Dear citizens of Serbia, since this is an example of cream de la cream, a top financial expert in the former regime, I will say that the public debt in 2021 was 17 billion 717m euros. Mr. Aleksic only missed about 17,5 billion euros. How much ignorance is that? What's this surface? He, of course, misjudged public debt information, the projection of the public debt for next year, 2021, where it clearly states in your budget that the public debt will be 57.5% at the end of the year compared to GDP. Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable MPs, let's see who you're dealing with. From 15 billion dinars to over 31 billion dollars or dinars to 2,000 euros per citizen of Serbia. It's just amazing. Not to say that what he said further in his address, that the budget for the economy is shrinking. The budget of the Anti-Corruption Agency is reduced, and only the Statistics Service gets more money. Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable MPs, just to be clear, 20.16 billion dinars were allocated to the economy for 2019, 23 billion dinars for 2020, and 41.7 billion dinars for the economy. Of course, I singled out one-time assistance for a bastard who went through the Department of Industry this year. So, false information. From year to year, our economic and support and development of our economy is increasing. The Agency for the Prevention of Corruption in 2019 had a budget of 254.6 million dinars, in 2020 292.6 and in 2021 290 million dinars, but one of the information that is crucial to you, in this year the Agency had 25 million dinars extra that were related to parliamentary and local elections that were held. And that's where the budget goes up year after year and exactly the Anti-Corruption Agency rightly benefits the budget. The Republic Statistics Institute next year, just so you know, has extra money just for that reason, and that's 1.9 billion dinars, which should end the planned census of Serbian citizens. Great ignorance, great malacity from the biggest expert in the financial former regime of Mr Miroslav Aleksic, the cream de la cremation of the People's Party. Another brief review, as I also received Dusan Nikezic's statement in the meantime, another great expert, whom we remember and how he was an adviser to Mirko Cvetkovic and participated in the work of the government since 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012. He said and dared to say and ask – why didn't you raise your salary to doctors for a thousand euros four years ago? Mr. Nikezić, I will answer you very simply – because of your authority, your rule, the money your boss, your President Dragan Gilas put in his pocket, the money you robbed and destroyed this country, and I will give you the exact figures in 2008 of the budget deficit that you left 72 billion in 2009, 127.1 billion in 2010, 141 billion in 2011, 163.5 billion in 2012, 245.1 billion in 2012. A total of 748 billion dinars have left us with deficits, gaps in the budget, which since 2014, this government has been trying to shut down through fiscal consolidation, through the heavy reforms that all Serbian citizens have been through to cover your holes, to cover your losses, and there is probably 619m euros that Dragan Gilas has placed on the accounts of his private companies while running the city of Belgrade. That's why, Mr. Nikezic, we didn't have the opportunity, unfortunately to raise salaries, but that's why right after fiscal consolidation, right after the reforms we went through, we went intensively to increase the salaries of all public sector employees, especially medical workers. If you want the details, just let me, I apologize if I've extended, just let me know the exact details. So, a nurse in 2011, in October of the month, paid a salary of 34,804,3 dinars. The same nurse in 2020, in April, has 57,399 dinars, an increase of 22,300 dinars or 63%. For the doctors you mention, here's an example, in 2011 in October of the salary of 63,727 dinars, the same doctor's salary in April of this year 98,734 dinars. With 5% to go, there will be over 100,000 dinars, 103,670 dinars, by 54% increase. That, Mr. Nikezic, is the answer to how responsible economic policy, how difficult measures, on the one hand, fiscal consolidation, are made to stable public finances, and then the money that is invested in highways, invested in hospitals, invested in schools, in kindergartens, invested in salaries and increased pensions. Salaries and pensions are safe, safe and growing from year to year, and not what it was like in your case when individuals, privates are getting rich at the expense of the state, which remained debts and huge deficits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1287	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We're going back to the speaker list. Next up is Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1288	I thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and we are adopting this session for 2021, but in completely amended, I would say, above all, changed living circumstances compared to all previous years, at a time when our country faces a terrible pandemic and numbers that break new records every day. Our country, under the difficult conditions of the crisis, stands out huge funds on a daily basis for new hospitals, rebuilding and expanding existing capacities, for medicines, medical equipment, but also for salaries and pensions and all that goes from budgets. It is planned to continue in 2021, as is foreseen by the budget ahead of us. In other words, the minister explained in detail this morning which hospitals and health homes in Serbia are planned for reconstruction and reconstruction during next year, and we all need to be aware of that. There's no citizen who asked for medical attention without getting it, not being put in the hospital if necessary. Here it is necessary to highlight the importance of building two new Kovid hospitals in Batajnica and Kruševec, in record time. Batajnica is already receiving patients and Kruševac will be in a few days. All of this will greatly relieve other hospitals and allow the treatment of the most difficult patients. For now, we are fighting and the system survives, thanks to doctors and other medical and non-medical personnel who are making superhuman efforts, but also to the state. There are also those who criticise and, of course, we can always criticise everything, but this is the time when we have to put everything aside. We need to be solid and focused on each other, help each other, adhere to all the necessary measures, even though it's already all over our heads, but only responsible, aimed at one goal, which is to fight against the virus, we can help both our health workers and our country. I think it should be topic number one of all of this, and so we need to focus all resources and capacities on fighting the crown of the virus knowing that life and the state can't stop. We can't stop the economy because we have to provide funds to fight the pandemic, for wages and pensions, for investment. This encourages the fact that the draft budget provides for 330 billion dinars for capital investments, which should allow economic growth of 6%. The planned increased allocations for public investment also supported the Fiscal Council, characterising them as good elements of the proposed budget. This year's budget is projected at around 12 billion euros and it is real. The IMF, with which Serbia continues to have an arrangement, also says numerous prominent economists in Serbia. The budget has increased by about half a billion euros compared to the previous one, which is realistic, as the government's register is projected based on expected economic growth. This growth is planned to 6%, so almost 1% higher than the current year with what the IMF has agreed to, so I point out once again, the budget is realistically planned. Also, the planned 3% deficit, which is in line with the IMF's position, gives support to the projected 6% growth rate. The Fiscal Council also suggested that projects that are important for the health and quality of life of the population, as well as for the economic recovery of the country, including the equipment of the health system as investments in the basic infrastructure, be realised as efficiently as possible. That is also the government plan of the Republic of Serbia. With this in mind, it should be pointed out that this budget provides for the construction of the Preljina-Požega highway, which should be completed by the end of 2021, then the Moravia Corridor, the Nis-Pločnik highway, the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica highway and some fast traffic, then, for the rehabilitation of the railway, as well as for new industrial parks. All this is important for encouraging domestic and foreign investors to invest in Serbia because there is no investment without roads. An example of good practice is the Milos Veliki highway, which allows, not only safe and fast driving, but also an example of more and more investments along the highway route. Significant funds are also provided for support to farmers. For the IPARD alone, 4.7 billion dinars will be allocated, and I think this is good, because the major redundancies in the country's agriculture are in no way at all lost. On the contrary, agriculture is one of the most important economic sectors. Investments in agriculture are a safe investment, and the money invested is the fastest and safest return because each agricultural producer is itself a company that creates a new added value. This year 5.2% of the total budget is planned for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, a significant increase for the previous budget. What I'm suggesting, Minister, is still never enough means to protect the environment. Environmental concerns must be one of the priorities, and without investment, there is no healthy environment. Without major investment in municipal infrastructure, there is also no healthy environment. Only a healthy environment is the basis for preserving human existence and an essential factor for the quality of life of people. That is why they encourage announcements in projects to clean up both wastewater and air, but also to resuscitate as many as 15 dumps in Serbia, which is great news. For wastewater treatment, 3.2 billion dollars are foreseen and the project will cover as much as 70 local self-government. Once again, only with greater concern and greater investment can we have a healthier environment. What makes me particularly happy when it comes to the laws we are discussing at this session is that from January 1st to December 31st, 2023, employment will be facilitated on certain and indefinite times in the public sector, after six years in force has been banned from employment in the sector. Public sector employment will no longer be decided by the government's commission, but by the institutions themselves according to their needs and capabilities. It is a good way to keep people in Serbia, but more will be said during tomorrow's debate. To end up going back to the budget. It encourages, however, the evaluation of the Fiscal Council that Serbia is nowhere near the threat of a fiscal crisis, and that the state will be able to carry out its financial commitments in the coming period. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support both the draft budget and the other proposed legislation we are discussing at this session in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1289	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1290	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the most important obligation of every executive authority from the smallest, from municipalities, cities, provinces to the government is the adoption of the budget. A single Serbia is a state-of-the-art party. We have voted in favour of all the budgets since we take part in this work of parliament, for all the budgets that are good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this budget is good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that is why we will support it. An old president of the municipality of one time told me that the two most important things in the calendar year are for the president of the municipality or in this case we can tell the Minister or Prime Minister, is when the budget is adopted and the final bill is adopted. Serbia had one unexplainable break from 2002 to 2018, because according to all the applicable laws here, there was no final account, and Mr. Minister, I think you are the most responsible that we have finally managed to achieve this continuity and, of course, with the help of Parliament this year, we are also beginning to adopt final accounts. You will also be remembered for disciplined all budget users, unlike all previous ministers. Simply, with yours, on time prepared, instructions, everyone was ashamed not to react and they were all mostly, at least the ones I talked to, and they deal with local finances, they said -- listen, when the minister could do all this in time, it would be a shame not to do it. So it looks like a small thing, but when it comes down from your ministry and down, it's a great success. When we talk about the budget, I and as a member of the Committee on Finance since 2012 must also look back on what the DRI is doing with Mr Duško Pejovic and what the Fiscal Council is doing with Mr. Pavel Petrovic. Mr. Pavle Petrovic here a few days ago in this parliament in the field he led with the president of my United Serbia parliamentary group, Dragan Markovic Palm, said at one point, that he would remain remembered in 2015, 2016 and 2017 as the years in which we had serious fiscal stabilisation and excellent results. It always reminds me of that story between a father and a son, when a father can't praise his son in his presence, but always say that to someone else. I notice that in this case too. If Mr Pavle Petrović, 2015, 2016 and 2017 criticised these budgets in my presence and all the members of the Finance Committee, and then it was going to be a year how long it has been now and that the same year praises me, I am not afraid of a single word or some criticism that the Fiscal Council is referring to the budget that is on the agenda today. I am sure that this budget, which is not compared to the budgets of previous years, will also, because this 2020 itself has made such a difficult and confusing situation that it is a question of when this is going to end. The state audit institution has given you correct suggestions, advice from the workarounds of their activity and what I have noticed, and I think that ministers can be at least some good idea if nothing else, is that they realized that they were very bad at managing real estate in terms of business space and living space belonging to the state, municipalities and cities, and that we don't have clear records for now because of the specific methods of recording, because everyone finds their own way, so someone says I have five objects and it doesn't say that this facility is 3,000 squares, 5,000 squares or so on. I think it would be good to do a software solution where all of this would finally be transparent and if we had one situation where we could first see how we owned all of these properties, what their rentability and all of the resources and for all the other ministers who have some idea of doing something concrete with them in the future. The only thing I could use on condition that I resented DRI, is what Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma said when they filed the report here, and that was that most of the time they found some wrong books, irregularities of 500, 600, 700 euros. He said then -- it's okay, mistakes happen, let's just ignore these tiny ones and deal with big beasts, because their actions cause much greater damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget. We have had a significant growth in income in the last few years in all the budgets that we have voted here and certainly that this budget would not be like this if all the great world powers were not in relation to the Republic of Serbia as we do today. It is precisely strong and stable finances that depend on this foreign policy as far as it now acts directly or indirectly, but the fact is that Aleksandar Vukic, in the period behind us, of course with Mr Dacic, the president of the current parliament, has done a lot to achieve precisely this political stability behind which financial stability is certainly followed. This pain that hit us, Covid 19 or the Crown, didn't just hit us, it hit the whole world. What I've noticed in this budget, that's what my colleagues before me have been talking about, these are exactly the big increases we should expect when it comes to the salaries of health workers and pensioners and the public sector. You were a little before and you explained that over the past few years and in the private sector, the difference between private and public sector wages has been reduced, and I simply believe that this situation has, I say, given one security through this budget to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because you gave those two human things to people in 2021 precisely because of these good measures, which is faith and hope. So, when we all say it needs to be saved, we need to prepare for some crisis time, you're sending a message where all citizens can be relaxed because they can certainly count on the state and the state won't forget anyone. Since I don't have much time because of the organisation in our parliamentary group, I just want to mention one more thing that I think is important, which is the subsidies you've been planning in this budget as well. We had a lot of subsidies this year, 2020. We need to analyse their measures, their effects, whether goals have been achieved, but we should certainly commend that you have managed to find a way and the possibilities that even in 2021 we do not lack subsidies in different ways. Once again, the JS parliamentary group will support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1291	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vujic. Just briefly about the subsidies, it is very important for me to clarify Serbia's citizens. So, when it comes to subsidies, there is no misunderstanding or misunderstanding. So it's not to support losers and losing firms like it was in some previous period. When you look at the list of subsidies that we currently have in the plan for next year, it's, say, support for the development of entrepreneurship, support for industrial development. There are, for example, incentives related to vouchers, or vouchers for all citizens of Serbia to develop tourism and travel across Serbia. What is very important is support for scientific and technological parks in Belgrade, Nis, Chačka. This is support for the Innovation Labour Fund. It's support for the Science Fund, for various programs, for young people, for the researchers we have in our country. So that's very important to me that we understand. Yes, we're going with more money, but we're going precisely because we want to support these programs, we want to support what, when I say "what" I mean innovation, development, which provides us with both a better and a better future. What's about environmental science, to answer to your colleague, who talked about it a little while ago, is an ecology that is very important to us. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Serbian citizens, economics, investment in the environment to preserve the environment in a clean economy, is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Just when you look at the 2021 budget, you have more than enough confirmation to do that. The budget of the Ministry of Ecology in 2021 is 8.31 billion dinars. The budget in early 2020 was 7.9. It went down during the Covid crisis to 5.8. So we have an absolute and percentage increase in the budget for the Ministry of Environmental Protection. What's more important, and I want to introduce you to that, which are concrete projects that we're going to finance from additional sources, which are just aimed at preserving the environment, that is, the green economy, the green economy we're talking about all the time. We also provided the EBRD with a total of 120m euros for ecology, environmental protection. The loan will be used for the following projects: regional waste management system, construction in Apatin, Bac, Kula, Prijela, Priboj, Sjenica, Dimitrovgrad, Beli Palanca, Babušnica, Golubac, Kučevo, Mali Crnića, Petrovac at Mlavi, Veli Gradište, Žabari and Žaguvica, Ub, Osječina, Ljig, Koceljeva, Vladimirci, Barajevac, Lazarjevac, Obranovac, Valjevo, Baijna Basta, Požega, Arlje, Ivanica, Čajetina, Kosjerić, Čačak, Lucani, Šabac, Irig, Pećci, Ruma, Šid, Sremski Karlovci, Stara Pazova. So we'll spend 120m euros for that. In the coming years, projects begin, the deadline of 2023. Construction of new wastewater treatment plants and sewers networks. That's what we got from the CEB 200m euros. It is a waste water processing plant, primary sewerage network, waste water treatment: Razanj, Takovo, Topola, Osijek, Babušnica, Divčibare, Bela Palanka, Novi Knezevac, Srbobran, Dimitrovgrad, Pećinci, Književac, Negotin, Bačka Palanka, Temerin, Petrovac na Mlava, Nova Varoš, Gornji Milanovac, Bajana Basta, Bolovac, Ivanica, Velika Gradište, Raška, Apatin, Lapovo, Priboj, Ruma, Baška Palanka. In addition, we have a replacement of the existing boiler room in Kragujevac from solid fuel, transferring the boiler room to environmentally acceptable fuel. And on top of all this, so huge investments in ecology are also going with the project to end the lack of sewage and water network and build a wastewater treatment plant in 70 local self-government. That's what we do with a Chinese partner. We're expecting work to start in the spring. The total value of these projects is 3.2 billion dollars. Part of the project ‘Serbia 2025’. In the coming years, we are going into mass work, if I can express myself in extremely large investments just in the environment, protecting the human environment, to ensure that every household in Serbia has a water and sewerage connection and that every local self-government has a waste water treatment plant by the end of 2025. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1293	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Next up is Mr. Nandor Kish. It's a great pleasure to be able to give him my word in Hungarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1294	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today the draft budget for next year, and the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will definitely support this proposal in the day to vote. In 2020, the pandemic put us ahead of significant challenges. It was necessary to introduce various protection measures to prevent the spread of the coronary virus, such as closing schools and moving to remote teaching, limiting the work of certain companies and moving to work from home. These are just some of these measures that, unfortunately, can also have negative consequences in various areas of life, including the economy. In his presentation, he would refer to an area of education that is of great interest to Serbian citizens, especially members of national minorities. Education is one of the areas that was at the centre of attention during the pandemic. Many families have changed their daily lives because the educational and probational work from the perpetrators has passed to the homes of the families, and students participate in the follow-up at a distance. We must commend all teachers who literally adapted from one day to another to emergency conditions and work creatively and devotedly with students. We especially congratulate teachers who have made extra efforts and recorded lessons. The TV "Panon" from Subotica helped to record lessons in Hungarian. Thanks to this joint work for the entire school year, more than 3,000 lessons in Hungarian will be available. It is very important to equip schools with modern IT equipment, but also to further train teachers to use them, because our education system will only be fully prepared for distance teaching. By equipping schools with additional tablets, students from a poor social cultural mile will also be able to follow the teaching remotely without problems. Let me refer to certain activities that are of great importance to us, members of the Hungarian national minority. It is extremely important that the development of a new plan and programme for the subject is completed Serbian as an immaterial language, since the inadequate way of learning and knowing it has been a major problem for decades to come. It is significant that the conditions are ensured that members of national minorities attend classes in their native language in the place of residence, which is extremely important in the development of the child. In the case of Hungarian national minorities, this means that in many settlements basic education has been provided in departments with less than 15 students. Easier nostration of the diploma is also a significant issue for us. In this way, young people who have completed their studies abroad can find work easier and use their knowledge at home in the Republic of Serbia, which they acquired during foreign studies. Dear People's MPs, I'd like to look back on the numbers a little, more specifically, how much they've increased in the previous period. If we look at the previous funding period in the area of education, we can conclude that the funds invested in the education system are increased. For example, between 2006 and 2018, a total of 542.9 million dinars amounted to investment in education facilities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which was only 816.9 million dinars in 2019. Two of the largest projects in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development are the programme of modernisation of schools and education for social inclusion. Thirty-four investment projects were launched in the previous year, many of which unfortunately could not be completed during this year due to the pandemic. It is very important to continue investing in educational educational institutions, as this provides better quality of education. I would like to highlight several examples of significant investments in the past four years, in schools in the territory of the AP Vojvodina where teaching takes place also in the Hungarian teaching language: the primary school "Kizur Istvan" from Subotica, the primary school "Zravko Gložanski" from Vienna, the elementary school "Novan Radonić" from Mola. As someone who comes from Ada, I must stress that I am very happy about this investment. High school “Dositej Obradović” from Novi Knezevic, Chemical Food High School in Choki, High Agricultural School with the home of students in Futoga and other primary and secondary schools from Subotica, Somboro, Novi Sada, Temerina, Sente etc. In the draft budget ahead of us, we see that for the next year, investment is an increase and we hope that next year investment in Vojvodina will also be noticeable. As an example of the need for investment, I would like to highlight the primary school "Hunjadi Janoš" in Chantavir, where it is very important to replace the old heating system urgently. More specifically, the out-of-date heating boilers replace the new heating system. This would make the school not only a safer place for students in employment, but investment would also be important in terms of energy efficiency and environmental protection. Another example, the primary school "Miroslav Antić" on Palic, where the façade carpentry is planned at the part of the school building. We hope that these investments will also be among the priorities in the education portfolio. Representatives of the Duke Hungarian Union will continue to do everything they can for their community. We will continue to work and provide the same opportunities for members of both the Hungarian communities and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In voting day, we will support the 2021 draft budget and hope that our lives will return to normal as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1295	(He speaks Hungarian. I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Mr. Kish on his first concise presentation in the National Assembly. Now after youth experience. The word has the People's MP Đuro Peric. Just press it. Sign up again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1296	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Kovac, the Honorable Ministers of Sinisha Mali with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first commend the practice that has now been introduced, and that is to discuss the budget in the regular procedure, not what we had earlier in short periods of time when it was extraordinary and short-term. Because now we have really had the opportunity to take a thorough look at it, given that, by my estimate, this budget proposal for 2021, which is made up of the Ministry of Finance and which we are discussing today, and proposed by the Serbian Government, I think it's a very great budget proposal that we have. I spent 25 years in the state administration of the federal authorities of Yugoslavia, over 10 years in the municipality and the city of Belgrade. I also had a chance to look at it, because that's what I've been doing, all those problems that have been put forward in those budgets for so long. Here it is said that the budget, after the Constitution, is the most important act. Of course, these are budgets per year, and the Constitution is a bit broader. I have to say that the composition of this proposal is given to us, which is a very difficult and complex work of those people who have done it, because if you've all had it in your hands, and it is, we've seen that there are over 1,200 pages of text, and I think it's very analytically all worked out and it's given data, minors, about every detail. So I think this is one of the rarest draft budget laws. I said I've seen it many times. It is likely that from Minister Stojadinovic, who was the finance minister, he has not appeared so far, according to my assessment, any such a thorough and elaborate system. I'm not going into certain details and figures right now, I'm going as one whole package that was given to us for consideration. Then I'd say next. I'm going to look back at these only a few elements related to the budget, and I'm going to talk more about this financial plan of the Republic Institute for PIO, since I've spent a lot of time here as President of the Retirement Union, so I've had a lot of insight into all these problems that have plagued our pensions for a long time. As far as this proposal is concerned here, I think it is a fiscal and monetary consolidation that has been achieved after well-designed measures and creative solutions implemented by the president, Mr. Vukic and the Serbian Government since 2014, so that it is possible in a sense that individual solutions in the budget can be put in place and resolved more easily. That's what's positive. It's a negative thing that during this same period, we've been in a lot of trouble with this pandemic that's certainly made it a lot more difficult. The fact is that fiscal monetary policy creators have continuously worked on measures to ease pressure on the economy, as it has been said. The measures taken in April preserved the production capacity of the entire economy, the standard of living of the population, which is very important, are additionally supported measures for those sectors that suffered the greatest damage during the first wave of the epidemic. It gave one stability and security throughout our operation now in these conditions that we have. It is very important, I think, not by any chance in my opinion, that the budget revenue projection for 2021 is based on the movement of the most important macroeconomic parameters, gross social product, its components, inflation, exchange rate, foreign exchange movements, changes in employment and earnings in the 21st year and the process of effects changed in tax policy. The pandemic of the coronary virus has caused us great damage so far, but it is still maintained by affecting all spheres of life and the work of the inhabitants of our country, but the same is happening throughout the world. That evil occupied the entire globe, we know its name, but unfortunately, we don't know all the insidious properties that will continue to follow us as we can see. I guess there'll be a solution to that, too, and that's the end of it. I would draw attention to the timely measures of the creators of economic policy, which primarily focus on maintaining employment that has greatly mitigated the negative effects caused by the pandemic, so no significant turbulence in the labour market is expected. This is seen in the end by the average salary in January-August of 59,234 dinars. Mr. Finance has repeatedly pointed out and today said what priorities are in everything that we are presented and I think it's acceptable for me on one hand, it's going to say that it takes care of the social standard as we call it and the population standard at all, and the other around these big investments that they have. But I would add something else to that, and I think that besides what really matters most, I think that you even have it in a certain way just that I haven't been able to find that correlation with all the numbers that were there, and that's about health, which has put us at an extra burden, that it's clean health without these pandemics, etc. It would be quite different, although it is of great importance, but this certainly affects that it creates certain pressures that we have. Also, for agriculture, I think that it is well-conceived in this sense that in various ways both through these subsidies and through the rest is all quite well foreseen, but I think it is also of crucial importance in the development of our further system, as is the development of villages and all these issues related to the survival of the population in our parts of the country. I think with this draft budget that our parliamentary group, as our comrade Stosic said, will fully accept all these laws that are related to the budget and these other issues. Now I would just like to clarify a little bit of some of the issues related to this financial plan of the Republic Fund PIO. The PIO Fund's financial plan is a special legal act, it is in addition to the budget adopted under certain pension and disability insurance laws and the Budgetary System Act. In this respect, the National Assembly agrees on all these parameters that have been presented, and they have followed recommendations they have also made in the Budget Proposal, such as projects of annual inflation averages, real GDP growth, GDP – 5997 billion, and the indicative total expenditure of the Fund is around 724 billion and 18 and are higher than last year for 4.83. Now, what matters here today is what Mr. Minister said, what happens to social security contributions, which are 556,9 billion and out of these contributions to the achievement of the function, is 75.94% of the planned income, and the state's aid and transfer is only 153 billion and 30 million, which is 21.17% of the total. I stress this because Mr. Minister mentioned that we had a situation where the state had to intervene with 48% of the funds for the operation of this fund. I remember, however, even if it happened that 55% of the funds were given for it for a month. However, the matter has now changed very seriously and these 153 billion are being given, and we need to understand it a little bit, it is not so much about these contributions not being going well, but it is the obligation of the state to this employee people who are in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with an unfettered internship, miners, fighters and various other groups that the state had to do with its laws, as have regulations on special pensions for SUP members and others from judicial authorities working in Kosovo. So, of these 153 billion is a large part that would be constantly present, because these are the special solutions that have been given. There's been a lot of talk about how we had a situation where at one point, we had a slight pension suspension, and we didn't have that formula, as we say, so this so-called. Swiss formula 50/50, 50 from consumer price and 50 from profit. That's what we had out there in 2005 and so on. It is now a satisfactory solution, but in the longer run, as has already been said here, and our President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, noted, that there is a little bit of a pension disturbance on this long track, so he made a commitment that he would personally participate in it and find some correction that would make a more permanent solution that would be safer this way. I have to say that we didn't make it all up together here, I've had conversations with the Federation of Pensioners of Hungary, they've had about four million pensioners, but they've brought them down to only two million, and this other one has to be found through some other solutions. So far, we've taken it as a problem that it's the easiest thing to do with this so-called. The average pensions are 50% compared to the average earnings. Right now, it's a little bit disturbed, but for justifiable reasons, because it had to increase something about our healthcare workers' earnings, etc., so it now stands at around 47.8 compared to these 50/50. However, I must say, those 50/50 were not definitely established in this relationship by the President of the Republic and Minister Krkobic. There can be some other elements and factors that will make it even better and tighter. We had like PUPS various other proposals related to so-called. Technological-fiscal funds to assist these existing funds, etc. We took this because some of the countries that have accepted this so-called. Funding the current pension to go as it is now foreseen. But there are a few problems, and I won't be much longer, and one of those problems is, as we've heard before, even the other day, and now I'm pointing it out specifically because I was a direct witness as it all happened. So we have a big problem with so-called. Farmers' pensioners, who are somewhere around 170,000 now and there have been made a debt of two billion euros, as I have heard from you, Minister. That's what happened, I remember when there was a problem, since Djindjic's government. Djindjic made a gesture there that did not allow it to go any way during which he had been going until then, but that would probably be corrected by now and to make one system of obligations is now about doing it seriously, because there should be appropriate solutions. We're going to have more pensioners now, because there was about 250,000 of them here at the time. On the other hand, there must also come from the real reform of pension-inhabitation and find appropriate solutions, as we do, for example. Of these millions and 770,000 pensioners, we have a million and 200,000 pensioners whose pensions are up to 20,000. That's very small. This is now one order of social problems that must be addressed in another way. The trouble is that we still have a lot of busy worlds that also have lower earnings and shorter deadlines, because that's what made these pensions so low. It's about low earnings in the various industries that were, and it's also about short work hours, and then it happens that we, for example, even below the lowest pension, which is about 13,900 dinars, have about 200,000 pensioners. That's a little illogical, but that's true, that's the situation. This results in everything, because this system as a system cannot solve these huge problems that are related to such a large mass of people whose problem should be properly solved. So, I think what I'm saying is that now there's been a slight decrease around these pensions on average, that this 5.9% increase is going to lead to that level and then we're going to have one situation that's normal and that these adjustments are going to go further. It's still about that, and that's what I'd end up with, that despite all the problems with such low pensions and so many pensioners, it's not easy to deal with, because it's huge expenditures, regardless of all those agricultural pensioners, those 170 grand, have an average pension of 11 grand. I've been counting, only 21 pensioners in the area have a slightly bigger profit than that 11 grand. It's a small amount at first sight, but when you have a large number of people, then it's asking for a much larger amount of money. So I'm hoping that we together will be able to find a way out of all this that's related to this pension-involvement problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1297	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1298	Dear Mr. Perry, just two things I'd like to point out. What you were talking about is very important – the stability of the PIO Fund. The stability of the PIO fund, directly or indirectly, depends on two things most – the number of employees and the height of the average salary. When you look at the number of employees, I have a table in front of me, from 2005 to the third quarter of 2020, you see that the number of employees from year to year has been falling somewhere, and we have now come to the conclusion that our number of employees in the third quarter of 2020 is 2,936,600 people, according to the labour force poll, the number of unemployed is 292,000. Let's say, let's look at 2012 -- we only had 2,200,000 employees and over 700 hundred thousand unemployed. So, precisely the responsible economic policy since 2014, which has been aimed at opening factories, hiring people, giving everyone a chance, on the other hand, to build highways, bridges, industrial parks, to attract foreigners to invest in us, proved to be justified, and that is why you have as a result the financial position of the PIO Fund that says – yes, gentlemen, in 2012, our total income from the contributions was 287 billion, and in 2019 494 billion. And that's why these transfers from the budget to the PIO fund are shrinking from year to year, just before I told you, they were 48.2%. So nearly 50% of the money, pensions paid to our pensioners came from the budget, not from the contribution that enters the PIO fund. Now that's 25.3%. And to take advantage, when I told you about the number of employees and unemployed, too, to tell you all of you and the citizens of Serbia, from the beginning of 2015 to the third quarter of the first nine months of this year, the average salary in the private sector has increased from 38.998 dinars to 55.724, so by 42.9%, and in the public sector the salary has increased by 28.4%. So, for less than in the private sector. I want to tell you, apart from the fact that we fulfilled the promise made by President Vukic at the end of last year that we will cross the average salary level in the Republic of Serbia of 500 euros, it is also very important, because I have heard criticism from the Fiscal Council, so the fact is that pay in the private sector is much faster compared to public sector wages. And that's very important. For you, Mr. Peric, it is important that salaries go up, higher wages, percentage of taxes and contributions are higher, goes to the PIO fund, more employees, goes to the PIO fund, pensions are safe, stable, are paid on time and, as you can see, by the Swiss formula, rises from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1299	Thank you. The word is by Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1300	Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, allow me to say a few words about the bill we are discussing today. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the draft budget law. For every government of the Republic of Serbia, this is the most important law. It is also very important to citizens what we are talking about today, because they are in a position to hear the state of the country's economy, and how many budget users there are, what the government's plan for economic and economic development is, in one word, that the money at its disposal will be spent and how it will be achieved. At the beginning of his presentation today, the law reflects what happened in 2019, and we must especially underline it, because in 2019, a thing happened that was so far unknown to the world community – the Coronation 19 virus and the pandemic of the virus simply put the world into a completely new situation compared to any period of its history and the whole world faced the consequences of the spread of this coronary virus. The world economy has stopped or slowed down movement, almost all countries in the world feel the effects of the pandemic of this virus, in almost all countries of the world are negative economic indicators, with the exception of China, which has recovered, or has come to this negative zero and will appear to have a positive growth rate by the end of the year, while all other countries have these negative tendencies or the state of their economy. I must say, our country did well at the time of the pandemic and that the government has acted very wisely with all the measures it has taken. Because the government achieved two main objectives in 2019 compared to the pandemic, which is to preserve the health of the population and preserve the country's economy. All what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done as a special economic aid package at the beginning of the year, or in the first half of the year, has proved to be very important for today's moment and for the structure of this budget that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is discussing today. The data that you presented that we had 2.3 billion euros in foreign investment, foreign direct investment says in itself how much foreign investors trust in our country's economy, and if I can say in the political system and everything that makes up part of the state identity of the Republic of Serbia. You know, nobody's going to invest in those countries where there's uncertainty and where there's no expected results and they have their reasons to invest in our country. If we go into some debate, we might be able to discuss whether and to what extent this is in line with this attitude that there is no rule of law in Serbia, but then we come to the policy field, which is what we want to avoid today, because we are only talking about figures. The fact that this budget has an investment character and it's a socially responsible budget. Why do I say investment? Because he foresees a lot of investment, investment, not only capital projects, but also investment in the health system, and I think that's the thing he can look forward to, not just because of the situation related to this pandemic, but also because of the future and concern about the health of the population, but I mentioned the already smartly planned development of Serbia's economy, it puts us in a position to plan GDP growth in 2021 on the projected 6 per cent. That in itself says that this government is doing a very good job, and I think citizens need to know all these elements so they can assess how the government works. I mentioned that it is expenditure, relating to capital investments and large infrastructure projects, but also to investment in health care. That's good. The fact that we've made two new hospitals and that we've been thinking about it since June, this year, is also about the wisdom of our state leadership, because then it's hard to predict in relation to everything that's been said about the pandemic, that it's going to happen in the second half of the year, what's happening now. In fact, it is no unknown that all the prognosis related to the duration of the pandemic has fallen into the water. And at this point not only here in this part of Europe, but throughout the world, if I may say the wild virus. There's a large number of infected people. Unfortunately, there are also a large number of deceased people, and it is obvious that the only way to stop that covid, at least within a certain time, until the care of the whole population's health has its results. This isn't just about two hospitals planned in June, and now they're finished. You, Minister, mentioned, if I have well remembered 22 health institutions being created and invested by the Government of the Republic of Serbia throughout our Republic, which speaks of one, let me say, a comprehensive plan to improve the health system of the Republic of Serbia. You also mentioned the Clinical Center, along with numerous local self-governments, you mentioned the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad, was formerly the Clinical Centre in Nis, and when investing in other health institutions can be understood how much the government of the Republic of Serbia cares about population health. When it comes to capital investments, I won't talk much about it, because my fellow engineer, Milutin Mrkonjic, the largest builder in these areas, is far more and more professional than I am, but I can't help but mention my impression that the state of infrastructure projects in Serbia is at a very high level at this moment, that we have the best infrastructure in the last few decades, that we can simply say with satisfaction, with pride, that they have been made, that they have implemented infrastructure projects that have practically connected Serbia from the north to the south, east to the west, to travel quickly, to travel safely, to have an increased number of vehicles both domestic and foreign. All this has to do with the country's economy and, of course, foreign investment. I was an example of working a few years ago in a situation to read the statement of a large international multinational auto company that says that if we make the highway that and that, then they will, of course, increase investment in our country, because they will have a greater opportunity, that is, to increase production. Here everyone is looking for their own interest and wants to realize it, but also investment and infrastructure projects are not just improving the country's traffic, rail and other infrastructures, those for a huge, huge number of people means safe jobs, for families safe security, a safer future, a higher standard of living, in one word we have satisfied people working in infrastructure. I said my colleague Mrkonjic would talk about it, but I can't help but mention some of these projects. Everything is very detailed in the structure of the budget that is available to us, and on the continuation of the realization of the highway "Milos Veliki", in the section towards Montenegro, the highway "Belgrade – South Adriatic" and the "West-Moral Corridor" and about the bypass around Belgrade, but not just about these highways. Today we heard information that the railway line "Belgrade – Novi Sad", a fast track, as part of a larger project, an international character, should also be realized, then the start of building "Metro", the highway "Nish-Medare", also part of an international project. One word improves car traffic, rail traffic, but the structure of this budget shows that ports, river ports in Serbia are also improving and that the government has planned large investments in these areas. In one word, the government through these projects also improves the entire system of traffic and all kinds of traffic in the Republic of Serbia, but also improves the quality of life of citizens. Let me say a few words about another area, extremely important for all of Serbia, especially for its future. It's education. The government of the Republic of Serbia planned in this budget a slightly larger means of education. It's designed for employees' earnings, but there's one much more important thing that's not mentioned, and it's part of funding the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. It is the execution of all those obligations that the ministry has in its work. In fact, in the budget structure of the Ministry of Education and Science and Technological Development, it is seen that at least science will be involved, new projects are involved. This is support for the work of the Scientific Technology Park in Nis, support for the work of the Scientific Technology Park in Cačka, support for the work of the Institute of Artificial Intelligence, Reconstruction of the Air Academy and when we see in the structure of the budget that the Science and Technology Park in Belgrade is planned and supported, we can see the importance of all these investments, because the word is intended to monitor accelerated technological development and create conditions for attracting innovative technological development companies and create conditions for developing knowledge-based economies. When it comes to the Air Force Academy, the reason for the implementation of this project is to provide conditions for the implementation of the Programme for formal dual education, both medium and high, and informal education through professional training, qualifications and retraining of staff according to the needs of the labour market. There's a lot to talk about education about, but I'm just going to mention two other important things to me. One refers to digitization. This is the condition of future progress, not only in our home and not only in education, but in society as well. The resources are provided for in the part of the funds available to the Ministry of Education and Science and Technological Development, the means of obtaining computers in computer cabinets in primary and secondary schools, which has not been done in previous years, or has not been done to the extent necessary. It is predicted that in the next four to five years, modern computers will be in all schools, so that children will gain modern knowledge and will be ready to use them after leaving school, of course. In the following year, at least 10,000 new computers should be provided from the budget. Credit should be able to get an extra 20,000 computers. Overall, university education requires about 50,000 computers in computer classrooms, with the number increasing by introducing the subject-matter obligation to the digital world in the first four grades of primary school. Another part of education is very important. It refers to regular funding for higher education, not only for employees' salaries, as I have seen here that the funds for universities in Serbia have been allocated, but also for the financing of students. Dear citizens, it is little known that the state has a large share in funding higher education, that of the 253,000 students in Serbia who study in colleges and higher schools of vocational studies, 105,000 students study in the cost of the state, which is 44.7% and you can see for yourself what it means for a small country like Serbia, then we should not be surprised when we have such quality education, but it is not only about funding, but also about other programmes. An important part of the education system is both student and student standards. It's a good thing the state is detaching funds to maintain existing homes. Namely, there is room in the dorms for 18,000 students, and the number of food users is over 30,000, which says that there is a large proportion of students who use studio accommodation and feeding facilities. There's the dormitories. There are 12,000 students living and learning in these homes. Of course, the state pays, the price of their use of student and student homes is low compared to the real economic price, because the state covers most of those costs. I would like, just when it comes to the Ministry and that part to mention that by the end of this year, a contract will be signed for the completion of the school resort facility on Palic, which was started six or seven years ago and is expected to be 25.12.2020, the third phase of the completion of the contract for the construction of a student resort in Palic, and then the accommodation facilities on Palic will be 280 seats and will not, of course, be intended only for students, other categories of citizens will be able to use those facilities without mentioning the maintenance of international scientific conferences and such. I would also like to mention a project relating to the reconstruction of the home of students of the Sonja Marinkovic High School of Agriculture in Pozarevec. With this new investment that's about to be... It's just, I forgot, the student resort should be over in 300 days from the moment of signing that contract. So, if the contract is signed on December 25th of this year, as announced, then it is realistic to say, on November 1st of the following year or sometime at that time that the facility is made available to students and other users. I mentioned a student home in Sonja Marinkovica in Pozarevec. After listing this new contract, home will be in a position to receive 173 students. So much will be the accommodation capacity of this home. Construction of Belgrade's Belgrade High School of Agriculture is also planned. The accommodation capacity is 168 seats. Also, the contract is due to be signed on December 25th and is also planned to be completed in 300 days. This all says that the government takes care of both students and students. Allow me at the end of my exposure to mention two more things. Mr. Minister, if I have heard correctly, but please correct me if I am wrong, the government has planned to invest in the protection of the environment of 3.2 billion euros in the next five years, which says that the government is long-term planning, to say, building, or creating a healthy environment, which will have its own deep meaning not only for the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also has that other dimension. When I mentioned the second dimension, I'm talking, first of all, about that in better living conditions, of course, there will be this far greater number of those who will come into our country. I would like to mention this dimension of the budget, and that is the socially responsible dimension of the budget. This refers to the increase in public sector wages and the increase in pensions. You are very detailed today when there comes an increase in wages, which I would not repeat these data to employees' structures and how much, but it is good to know, because it also speaks of the state of the economy of Serbia and says that it simply has conditions for these expenditures which says that the economy is good. Finally, let me mention one small piece of information that I found in the draft of this Budget Law, which speaks of the government really taking care of all categories of citizens. Namely, I found one piece of information related to the Ministry of Mining and Energy in the work concerning the protection of energy-hazarded customers. In order not to convince me, I will only read that the funds are intended to protect threatened electricity and gas customers from the category of household that are temporarily and permanently due to their social status are not able to meet the obligations of paying for electricity or natural gas, i.e. households whose member, by suspending the supply of electricity and natural gas, can be at risk of life or human health. This is the socially responsible dimension of the budget seen here for one category of people, but this dimension of the budget applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In one word, I think it's a quality document that gave a very detailed analysis of the economic situation in Serbia and everything that the Republic of Serbia intends to do in the future, of course, so that in the coming year we have, I say, a budget that can continue to have a development component. The SPS parliamentary group will vote on the proposal in the day of voting, because we think it is a good document for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1301	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1302	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, Mr. Obradovic, to correct you, and to correct myself earlier when I said that we were entering a project with a Chinese company about the construction of a lacking sewage and water supply network and a wastewater treatment plant in 70 local self-government, I said that the total value of the project is 3.2 billion dollars, and in fact it is 3.2 billion euros, so I apologize, but you have additional investment in environmentalism. So, I said a 120m-euro EBRD loan just now, a CEBO 200m-euro loan, plus 20m euros for a boiler room in Kragujevac. As you can see, I'm holding all this in my head, probably you, too, so we're absolutely committed to investments in ecology. Just let me talk about education, about education, about science, I think you're talking about the right subject. What I just want to sort of sum up for the citizens of Serbia, we will in the 2021 budget, if you vote on it, have an extremely high level of resources allocated to education, for education, for science. The total amount is 235.7 billion dinars. When you look at the rebalancing, where there were 224 billion, so 12 billion dinars, we have more for education despite the crown and the covids. We believe that investing in our young people, investing in research, investing in education capacities, in knowledge, in laptops, in computers, is the most important thing for us. In addition to fighting the pandemic of the coronary virus, where we are fighting for the health of our citizens, where we are fighting for our health system, we are also making every effort to improve the education system in Serbia, to invest not only in hardware, so not only in buildings, not just in computers, but also in knowledge and in the brain, in the heads of our people, so that they are as ready and able to cope with challenges in the future. Just a few things I want to set aside. So there are 940 million dinars of money for Erasmus Plus in the 2021 budget. So, a project that allows our students to enter the exchange process with foreign students. Free textbooks for socially endangered students, 700 million dinars were allocated. Digital textbooks, 789 million dinars. Modernization of buildings, schools, purchases and supply of equipment, benches, computers, 729 million dinars. In Article 3 of the budget, you have 37m euros for digital classrooms, to continue the digitalisation process, classrooms in our country. This is very important information for all those involved in both higher and higher education, 95m euros will be provided to start building art schools in one place. So these are applied arts, dramatic arts, etc. The biological, security college, the geographical college that, if I'm never wrong, they didn't have their own buildings, this year we've singled out 50 million dinars to complete the project. The project is almost over. Then let's go with this 95 million to build these buildings, so that these colleges finally have their own rooms. We are also going with the extension of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade. If I'm not mistaken, that's where it's being built, next to college, a new building, a new campus, so on that side we're completely committed to what we may not have had a chance to do by now, or someone who hasn't done before, which is building a whole new school, a whole new college so that our students, our students, have the best conditions to work. For related schools, you have 65m euros in article 3, and for the reconstruction of student homes, the expansion of capacities, the construction of new ones, you have as much as 32m euros, so I think, when you add up all these figures, when you see that we have more in that basic budget for the Ministry of Education, Education, for science, it speaks enough about the priorities of this government and it speaks enough about our commitment to the education system, students, researchers and all young people who are key to building a better and better Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1303	Thank you. The next reported is Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1304	Many respected Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr Orlic, respected Minister Gojkovic, respected Minister Mali with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia's 2021 Budget Act, I can immediately say that this is the most important legal document for the state of Serbia in 2021, for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the state of the Republic of Serbia. Why the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Because we will rule, or work, and live, earn, and spend. This is essential, and it is very important that you follow the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. We bring this budget law for 2021 in very difficult times. We who have been through and worked in the field of war events from the Republika Srpska region of the former to Kosovo and Metohija and other parts can freely compare this time of the pandemic with wartime, and it is easier for us to endure this pandemic than for those who have not passed it psychologically and in any other sense. When you take this budget, a colleague from the PUPS said that, you can see that he is a developmentist, as the minister said, but also socially responsible. When I say that, then I have to say that for 2021 in the budget, all the key major projects that are being done and that will be under construction next year are planned. This means that at the time of the pandemic we do not stop key projects, and for citizens of the Republic of Serbia it means more highways, more roads, more schools, more hospitals, more homes of health, more small and medium-sized enterprises, more railways, etc. That is also the data, as Mr. Mali said, that in the following year we will invest 330 billion dinars, and this year we have provided six billion euros in aid to our economy and thus saved our economy during the pandemic from collapse. There are few countries in Europe who have done this. I have to say, while I'm already in this year, that the measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia brought in this year were economic, but also when it comes to the lives of our citizens, they were comprehensive, efficient and on time. I particularly underline this -- comprehensive, efficient and accurate on time. Thank you, Mr. Mali, for leading these three elements on each particular and precisely at a specified time. Thank you, thank you to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Mr. Vukic and the Crisis Staff. I know there have been criticisms from the media controlled by Mr. Gilas or for Europe, Gilas. I explained why. They criticised, one of the editors of his media, criticising you and the president that it would not come true for 2019, 500 euros. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? When asked on one media, on one television, here, to be open, which he controls, would he resign what the editor said if 500 euros were made, he said he would. The second day he went to another medium that was controlled by Mr. Gilas and asked him if he would really resign, he said he would. That day and the day before yesterday, every day, Mr. Minister, criticises you, the government, our MPs that these are lies. The truth has come true, he doesn't think of it, because he takes to the realization of his media and he knows from whom. While I'm at it, let me say that a former MP, controlled by Dragan Djilas, who was here in the benches with us, came by by by accident every 15 days, and this is Mr Balsa Bozovic or Bozovic, however he might be, and said the amazing thing yesterday. He said everyone knows that Kosovo is not ours to be lost. Imagine what he said. He accused the government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia's leadership of creating a large Serbian policy. Terrible things. He formed a regional academy, whose leader, who will fight against it and the first lecturer, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in that academy, is the centre of Novi Sad, will be Bodic Bojicevic, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia younger, and these older people know, and that is the one whose voice has broken the former Yugoslavia. Next, I'm not talking about lecturers. Since my smallness has been mentioned, Mr Bozovic or Bozovic, you came here once before this bench and told me - Mr Atlagic, you are a valuable man, I do not like to work. I told him - Mr. Bozovic, you won't be in this assembly for long. As you have seen, it is not, except in the media of Gilas, where he curses both the assembly and the people's messengers and the government in this country. Mr. Bozovic and Mr. Gilas and I are two worlds. Mr. Bozovic and Mr. Gilas burned down this assembly. I was wearing cans to shut it down. Mr Bozovic and Mr Gilas took my president, and I guess theirs, to The Hague. I went to defend the state of Serbia and my president in The Hague. It is the second-largest shame in the history of the Serbian people. The citizens already know that. You know what this is about. Not my little bit smart, he says, but I didn't finish college at the Bona fides cafe and that he runs the Academy of Democracy in the region, I can think of it when he says that Kosovo isn't ours, what it is, and that today's government is conducting a big Serbian policy. We're two worlds. As you can see, I was shutting down the Assembly, and he was burning along with his associates. He drove my president and me to justice in The Hague, and I went to defend him. If I have a virtue or if I have something good in my life, because it says that the biography is not pure, thank God everyone knows it, is not my virtue 200 scientific papers, seven books, it is my virtue to go to defend my people in The Hague and my president in justice, I am not ashamed of it, in The Hague, and he was on the other side of the barricade and we will never agree on it. Let's move on. As far as the budget is concerned, Mr. Minister, as my predecessors have already said, let me just take a brief look at the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. To say that, before this budget, these measures were once again comprehensive, in time and efficient, which also worked on the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science and Technological Development. It will be increased, increased compared to 2020 by 3.99%. However, the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia is 14.5% and you see that it is not a small figure which is 0.61% higher than in 2020. This is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for our students, which I will now say, because the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development planned in 2021 to finance four new projects, very important, for our companies and for the development of total science and technology. The four projects include: support for the work of the Niš Science and Technology Park, another project - support for the development of the Cačka Science and Technology Park, a third project, very important for the future and modernisation of Serbia, support for the work of the Institute of Artificial Intelligence and the fourth reconstruction of the Air Force Academy. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Thank the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, Minister of Defence, Mr Stefanovic and Commander-in-chief Alexander Vukic, for reconstructing the Air Force Military Academy, and the predecessors destroyed it. These four projects are a function of accepting the development of innovative technological and development companies and creating conditions for the country's faster economic development in the coming year, based on knowledge. Now that's important, in my knowledge, I'm underlining this, because as an English philosopher said, a grain of knowledge is stronger than steel, finished quote. That's why knowledge is so important. We have before us the process of adopting and developing education and education, behold, miracles, for the first time in the last 30 years, for 10 years, from 2020 to 2030, and it is already in debate. What I've been insisting on for 15 years is redefine the general goal of raising. I'm going to say a few words about that in the end. The global process that is being implemented, especially the pandemic, has imposed new forms of teaching and new forms of learning on us. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia and educational workers asked me to say a few sentences today. Standard teaching so far was the only way to get to the knowledge and skills. However, more and more online forms of teaching and learning are being used, so today we have more and more such training programmes, especially in IT professions. This way of teaching is quite acceptable to us in Serbia and as you can see, the government will finance exactly these projects in the coming year. However, to be educated, money is needed, parents know that. That is why these modern forms of learning in the form of the Internet are very important because they save both money and time and it is very important for our parents, but also for the availability of education to everyone, no matter where you are and how old you are. Now, that's a very important thing. Thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially Mr. Sarčević, which I do not say, which is the initiator of this and who has given three years or four, indeed, all of it, and has traveled these paths. Also, this system will enable all educational workers to improve faster, no matter where they live. Now that's very important. Now, what we have been insisting on for the last 10 years, where we have partially succeeded, is that by the time the former government arrived in 2000, it has expelled education from schools, from educational institutions, from families, from the means of mass communication, which means film, TV, radio, press, etc. various content and other factors of education and education. Even our teachers weren't allowed to use the word education. And our law, the former minister knows, who sits here, he really stood up for it, and we've reached the title of the Law on Education and Education, and that's a big improvement because it's been thrown out too. Although it would be more correct, we pedagogues know that the Law on Education and Education, because the student is first raised and then educated, although it is a unique process, but first on education. That is why I propose that when the law is amended, it is called the "Law on Education and Education" in order to highlight the educational function of the school in the future. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic, what did we have as a consequence, this cataclysmic rule of Gilas, what did it bring us in 2000? Lies instead of truth, and they drove them away because they kicked out of school, and that's why today we reap what we've sown 20 years ago, which means lies instead of truth, hate instead of love. That's it. Autoshockism instead of patriotism, try to say the word “patriotism. ” So that's the consequence. Then, violence against women instead of a proper “relation and human relationship between persons of different sex. ” They cut it all off. I'm talking about fascism instead of antifascism. Thank you to the President of the Republic, whatever your political opponents say, which is the first time we mark anti-fascist dates and renovate anti-fascist monuments in our country. We're talking about injustice instead of justice. We're talking about evil instead of good, criticalism, not criticism. What lies we hear every day at the expense of the MPs, the President of the Republic, that's not a criticism. Criticism is based on the truthfulness of facts, truths, not lies. And so, not to mention, I have a lot of it because I'm doing a little bit of it and I don't forget, thank you to the educators from preschool institutions to higher education for a huge superhuman effort to raise and educate our children in these conditions, as well as to thank these on the first lines, our health workers. Mr. Mali, I have to say what I said earlier, there are three days, whatever they say you're the best finance minister in the last 20 years, I don't have time to explain. For what the gentleman said earlier, I am a little over the years, and I know what the budgets were before, but it is certain that this budget is developmental, which my colleagues have been saying, to contribute to the development of health and health systems, especially to saving the lives of our citizens. These are the huge things you've achieved and put into the budget next year. Retirement and wages. Although they say it's not true, they deny everything. They were, Balsa Bozovic was against "Begrada na Voda", see what he now has with his co-workers in "Belgrade on Water". So, pension and salary growth, a sustainable deficit like you said, 60% of them won't, we'll even cut it, etc. Since I don't see Mrs. Minister here from environmental protection, and today you've been talking about it, these are huge things you're doing, and I especially welcome her, Mrs. Vujovic, and I'm giving her full support for all the nasty things that political opponents have said to her in recent years. She has the terrible support of SNS and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am convinced that she will endure it knowing what kind of man she is and what kind of worker she is. Finally, Mr. Mali, we will certainly, regardless of this pandemic, I am confident even better to keep and strengthen the accelerated modernisation of Serbia by the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mrs. Brnabic, the largest number of MPs in this high home of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and do you know who the engine of realising Serbia's modernisation is? Respected citizens know, but political opponents do not know, nor do Gilas, so Mr. Aleksandar Vukic is the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, he is our great ruler, reformer, builder and defender of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of religion and nation, all because of the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1305	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Next reported, MP Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1306	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers. I want to look first at the exposure of some colleagues who, after 30 years of politics, realized that Novi Pazar should have a clinical center. Thanks to the involvement of our academics' party leader Muamer Zukorlic in talks with the country's top representatives, the country's president, prime minister and resolution ministers over the past four years, the state of health institutions has improved both in Novi Pazar and in the whole of Sandzak. Of course we all expect the New Market to get a clinical center. We are the first party to point out this issue in its programming principles and documents. When we talk about the 2021 budget, it is certainly the most important law and the most important document that this Assembly should adopt and which equally affects every segment of every citizen's life, from macroeconomic stability to providing funds for a local road, for example. Karajukica wells, corner of the Cave. What's the question for Mr. Minister is that our projection of economic growth is 6%, and that the World Bank came out with a 3 to 3.5% projection. Now how real are we and how unreal are they interested in answering that question? I want to give recognition to the ministry in the way they fought the pandemic, to the fact that we have preserved jobs, that we have invested a lot in health care and that we have fully met the challenges that all mankind faces, and therefore our society faces. What I particularly want to point out is that this budget provides for a growth in income for 5.9% pensions, health wages 5%, public sector salaries 5%, and what I think is particularly important is this minimum profit of 32.1226 dinars, i.e. we have a growth of 6.6%. What is important from the position of citizens and citizens living in Sandzak is that this budget provides 10.5 billion dinars to continue construction of Milos Veliki highway, or the Preljina-Požega section, where the highway comes about an hour from the Sanjay municipalities. I hope that when we talk about the 2022 budget that we will also have part of the funds to continue from Požega to Bolar, that is, this Sanjay area, because there is no even regional development until we have good traffic and good roads. What I also want to point out and why we will vote for this budget is the financing of the pipeline to Novi Pazar, because large investors will not come to Novi Pazar nor to Sandzak until we have other than traffic and gas pipelines. What I also want to point out is that the continued financing of the New Pazar-Tutin Master's Road, which has indeed been in catastrophic condition, will help citizens and citizens living in these municipalities to communicate more easily and lead a responsible policy where we will make sure that young people do not move out, but to stay living in these municipalities. I would especially like to point out that this budget provides for 443 million dinars for the municipality of Prepolje and thus financing the removal of not the sanitary dump of the State. The budget also envisions 415m dinars for the municipality of Sjenica, 294m for the municipality of Priboj and 100m for the municipality of Nova Varosh. Although it may seem to some that these funds are large, I would like to point out to the Minister and the Government that they are underdeveloped municipalities, that they are municipalities that have been neglected for years and that certainly every million in these municipalities will come in handy. I also know that funds have been allocated from the budget reserve to all these municipalities, but I urge that both in the next budgets and in the rebalancing of this municipality be particularly treated. From all I'm saying, we're going to vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1307	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1308	Thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament, just clarifications for the sake of, when it comes to Novi Pazar, I would just like to mention what you said and ask about the clinical center, I would like to point out that in the previous period the hospitals in Novi Pazar received a new diagnostic block and new X-rays and a new angio room and new vehicles. Based on what I got from my colleague at the Department of Health, it's now one of the most modern hospitals we have. In addition, a public health office in Novi Pazar was established. If I'm not mistaken, until some time ago, that area was covered by the Kings, and now it's a special institution in the New Market. So I think that says enough how ready and eager we are to help everyone and build appropriate health facilities in Novi Pazar. As for the World Bank and what you said, look, everyone has their projections and I don't want to talk about the World Bank, we have very good co-operation with them, they support a large number of projects in our country, but if I'm not mistaken, the conversation I had with them ten days ago, they say there will be a negative growth rate in the Republic of Serbia minus 3.5% this year. I tell them -- gentlemen, we now know, here's the December month almost, that there will be between zero and minus one, that it will be the best result in Europe this year. They say, yes, but you know our bureaucracy, we've been estimating it a few months ago, and now we don't have time to change it, etc. So, everyone has their principles, some of their methodologies. What is important to me is that according to the methodologies adopted in Europe, therefore, the Eurostat methodology, their statistical office says that our growth rates are the best in Europe this year. So we're going to have the slightest drop, but also, and now I'm going to bring you and show you the IMF and European Commission projections for the next two years that are also projecting the highest growth rates in Europe right now for our country. So when you look at cumulative growth, when you look at average growth for 2021, 2022, so, according to the IMF and the European Commission methodology, we are absolutely leaders. As soon as I get that data, I'll share the charts with you. They're painted, so they're good. Anyway, what we're aiming for next year is 6% of our GDP growth rate. Is that real, we absolutely think it is. If we meet the goal we set ourselves, which is to meet all these capital investments that we put into our budget. At the end of last year, we met with a rate of 6.2% growth in the last quarter, in the first quarter of this year and in the middle of the second half of March when we were closed, we had a rate of growth of 5.2%, so our economy, our economy, entered the high growth zone before the very pandemic of the Corona virus. There's no reason we shouldn't go back to those high growth rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1309	I thank the minister. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1310	Thank you. Here I am constantly sitting here, and I expect that there will be questions about the budget for the Republic of Serbia's culture, of course, and for the information, as well as something that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can really praise. Up until now, there has always been controversy in the public on how much the figures have been allocated to our country's culture, more than on projects and what this money is being allocated to. This year I somehow even notice that there is no controversy in the public, nor in numbers, let alone what the government of the Republic of Serbia's funds define, which is actually a picture of a country's cultural policy next year. It's always about whether the budget is reduced or increased. Most interestingly, it was concluded whether the Minister of Culture had a better or worse position than the other ministers in the government and, of course, what the Light motif had simply become in our country, and this is a constant controversy whether we are approaching that threshold of 1% of the state budget or not? In fact, it measures the political weight of one minister in every government in the world. So we're nothing special here, but especially in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It did not occur to anyone to add to the budget of the Republic of Serbia the withdrawal from the AP Vojvodina budget, and to add more funds that are allocated from the local budget, that in fact, all of this is added together and see that the funds that are being allocated are not small total funds for culture in our country at all. I can really say with pleasure that the projected budget of the Ministry of Culture and Information for 2021 amounts to 12 billion 708 million 694 thousand dinars and compared to the 2020 budget rebalancing, for this current year it is even higher by a billion 224 million 861 thousand, which is an increase of 10.67%. That's the answer for all those who constantly have a dilemma and ask for numbers, not for the essence of what this money is actually invested in, which is not small at all in the pandemic era. I had this fear, thank God that's past in co-operation with the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the President of the State, that we'll get a smaller budget because of the problems that every country faces during the pandemic period. Not that it's not small, but we've made it really big. Thank you, Minister of Finance, for having, apparently, hearing, understanding, but also a tendency to culture. The structure of the budget is, I have to say it this mathematically, that the area of culture has won for 2021 10 billion 445 million 182 thousands of dinars and the area of information for nearly a billion and a half dinars, and the rest of the resources are left, that I'm not economically harassing you with the explanations of that. Indeed, the percentage participation of the Culture and Information Ministry budget in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia by 2021 is 1.10%, i.e. for culture, which we may be most interested in, is 0.77%, which is an increase in the rebalancing rate of 0.79%. It's the methodology of our ministry, but it's also the methodology of the International Monetary Fund, as well as the methodology of the Westminster Foundation, that is, the office that's here with us and that's done a really good budget analysis for 2021, which is consistent with us. I'm saying this because of the unbelieving Toms who always have other, different methodologies that don't match ours. I'm saying, the percentages we got, we got this methodology. I say, we should look at the budget of the Vojvodina, what the budget of local self-government is and what it is spent on, and we can say that no matter how much trouble we have with the pandemic, which is most invested in health care and must be invested in health care, culture has not remained aside. Because, as Winston Churchill also said at the time of the war, he was reduced by the culture budget and asked a rhetorical question, to paraphrasise – why we were at all waging these wars, so I am very grateful that my arguments that culture needed and in difficult times found confirmation both with the Prime Minister and with the finance minister. Of course it's always important to what it's individually invested in. I'm just going to set up a few items, so I don't take up your significant time. The most significant increase in the budget, what you will be interested in as representatives of different local communities and self-government and certainly transfer to the mayors and presidents of municipalities, the project "Cities in Focus". So we have a significant increase. This is defined for the 2021 year 349.5m dinars, which is 250.5m dinars higher than budget rebalances and 200m dinars higher than the 2019 budget. Why does this matter? A significant increase in funding will greatly contribute to decentralisation of culture, as culture is not something that is only happening and should exist in Belgrade and Novi Sad. Culture is something that needs to pervade the lives of all local self-government and our entire country. There is a great chance that by participating in competitions within this project "Towns in Focus" of local self-government, we are in advance infrastructure in the field of culture, it is about building new and reconstructing existing objects, the chance to get centres for culture, museums, galleries, cinemas, theatres, music schools, music scenes. So, I think we're going to get this more uniform availability of cultural content across Serbia. Of course, reconstruction, suburban and Petrovaradin fortress is 300 million dinars, and this is a new project in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Information. I don't need to say how much Petrovaradin Fortress with suburban, one of the most important, perhaps the most significant monuments of culture in Serbia with really great cultural and historical importance and great tourist potential, and it fits into a major national project, which is the "New Sad-European Capital of Culture" that was moved by 2022. We have introduced a new programme in co-operation with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, we share the same idea that it is necessary to launch a project of the capital of Serbia's culture, according to the reputation of this European project. For this we have singled out, for 2021, the basic 12 million dinars is this project that we have to prepare to live in 2022 and to choose a city to be the capital of Serbia's culture with different kinds of programmes in the area of traditional but also in the area of contemporary creation that we have to encourage. We say, we will strengthen the cultural capacities of local communities again. I said, Novi Sad, capital of culture for next year, 302.9 million dinars. This has increased these funds by a total of 150.7 million dinars, i.e. an increase compared to the budget rebalance of the entire 99%. This is one of our most important cultural events for 2022, an event of a truly European level and importance. We will better position Novi Sad, but we will better position our entire country on Europe's cultural map. What else could I single out? Of course, separation for the National Theatre in Subotica. At the end of 2021, we expect the capital project to finally be completed, and this week we expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to decide to allocate 350 million dinars from the budget to, right, the Minister here, I have confirmation of the finance minister, to complete the works. And something, 50 million dinars for certain procedures not completed this year, 50 million for next year. Of course, Jagodina can also be satisfied, for the reconstruction, construction of museums, naive and marginal art for 2021, we allocate 156,9 million dinars, as well as for researching the protection and presentation of the Belo Hill archaeological site in Vinca. It's a new archaeological site, 35 million dinars detachment to protect the preservation of cultural heritage. Of course, I have significant support for the work of cultural institutions in the area of contemporary creation, 33.1% more than in the rebalancing of the 2020 budget. Also, something that is new for us, which is that the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision is now set to encourage the investor to produce audiovisual works, refers to films, give incentives. This time these incentives will be the entire 700 million dinars, and this will now, instead of the Ministry of Economy, be the first to work for the Ministry of Culture and Information. These funds are designed for the realisation of a regulation on incentives and domestic and foreign investors in the production of audio visas, as it is said professionally, and it is easier for Serbian citizens to say about making films and shows in our country. I can conclude that the planned budget of the Ministry of Culture and Information in 2021 is a developmental one, because we have really fought for a much bigger budget, and more resources for important items. Indeed, we have seen this financial progress that we have made compared to the years behind us. We have and we will have a stable funding of cultural institutions, which is also very important, and we have increased the amounts for almost all the competitions we are soon calling from the field of culture and information. Here we have significantly increased the items, through project funding, I think we can support many cultural institutions and individuals working in our country in cultural areas, or culture. The possibilities for strengthening our international co-operation have been improved. So, I can really be satisfied and when I answer the question of how much percent, how much money, because that's the most important thing, but I can answer the question, that's exactly what Serbian citizens are going to give money for in the Republic of Serbia's budget and what they're going to stand out for in the field of culture and information. I say we can also cover our country's significant priorities in the area of culture, which is the protection of cultural heritage, historical monuments. We can't exactly boast that historical monuments look good to us, or that they have adequate protection, that we have adequate protection of even cultural heritage. But it also covers national interests. Certainly, one of the national interests of improving the state of culture. Marking significant jubilee, such as the jubilee of the only Nobel laureate in the field of literature. It's the next year 60 years since the award of the Nobel Prize to Ivo Andric, who has a record here, on my left, because he was also one of the MPs in this historic building. Certainly national interests to develop artistic education and to create some new audience for which, in fact, we do and create this all we do today in the field of culture, but we need good co-operation with the Ministry of Education, because if we don't introduce as one, or optional, or mandatory subject, as we once had, which is the history of art, something that children learn and study in the field of culture from the earliest days, from primary education. I'm afraid that money and great separations in culture will not have that demanding and desirable audience in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1311	The next reported MP is Dr. Muamer Bačevac. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1312	I am very happy to hear what I hear, dear minister, because we insist that investment in the culture of investment is not spent, and that how much more valuable it is to me every investment in culture, spirituality, without it there is no one people, any people in question and that more than a billion and two hundred dinars will be more in your budget really cheers me up. You mentioned a significant project, so I'm not ready to talk about it, but I'm also happy that you'll be counting in cultural terms on local environments, and you know that Serbia doesn't have its own Dubrovnik. Dubrovnik Serbia is Novi Pazar. It is a place, i.e. where two central cultures in the Balkans meet and religiously and in every other way, and I would ask you to give one place like Novi Pazar special attention, because it really deserves to be a cultural metropolis in the Republic of Serbia, and, indeed, in this part of Europe, it is the youngest European city, at the same time, etc. In any case, I expect that you will be our guest and that we will continue to co-operate, you will see how much we invest in culture in Novi Pazar, we have our own theater, which is truly the heritage of one multiculturality, played by both Bosnian and Serbian giants, we represent everything that brought together these two peoples through history, and we have a lot to boast about. Not only for each other, but for many peoples in the Balkans in Europe, and in this sense, I am really looking forward to this increase. You know that we've had to reduce about 20 percent of our national councils because everyone is going to suffer, so it's going to suffer minorities and it's no problem, because we're all equal citizens of this country, but I can see that you're going to have more money in the budget, so I'm asking you that, even though the finance minister has one increased sensitivity for all programmes concerning the culture and traditions of minority peoples, there you can contribute and financially help all of the cultures of national minorities and peoples that are, I'm going to say, the special quality of the state of Serbia. As for other topics, I have to go back to medicine and health care, because I'm a doctor at first and finally. Mankind is not only a victim of the pandemic, but I have said, but indeed, it is his lord and causer, first of all, the minister, one of the negligences that we have devoted to our environment, nature, on one hand. I am pleased that this budget is highly focused on the environmental and environmental problems that our country has. You have already repeated several times what this country will do and what is foreseen by the budget, for my end what the minister has promised is to solve the pipeline and solve the dump. We see that Stanjevina is also awakened and that it will be as the prime minister said, to be this problem solved and that is indeed one big step. Unfortunately, it's not only not nature's concern, it's one inadequate orientation that we had in health care, not with us, but in the world, and it's led to some inadequate response and what we have here today, it's a pandemic that takes days, because most of the Western countries, America, are, above all, preceding there is, I'm going to say, a health care that isn't turned to every human, but is particularly turned towards a richer population. Fortunately for the citizens of Serbia and fortunately for all of us, we have really well-developed public health. This is one model that we could boast that in the 1970s we were pioneers all over the world and that Finland took that model from us. Today, Finland really has the best response to an even reaction. Anyway, I'm saying that humanity is partly the cause of what we have today. I am glad that this budget in a comprehensive and thorough way is trying to respond to the demands of today’s day. I am pleased that the budget is investment, the infrastructure will grow, I look forward to continuing Corridor 11, I am delighted to build every metre of road in the state of Serbia. It is also good for the citizens of Sandzak, it is good for the citizens of Vojvodina, it is good for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'll make it easier to get to my fellow Army in Vrnjakska Banje, live in the centre of Novi Pazar, we expect the Moravia Corridor, etc. What is important is that the health system is invested, or the investment of 32.1 billion dinars is projected, for the reconstruction of health infrastructure of 11.9 billion dinars and I am very happy that clinical centres in Serbia will be restored. Groh of these investments will go to the reconstruction of these territorial institutions, the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, which grew up and grew into a representative institution. It's clear that without strong territorial institutions, we don't have and we can't have top-notch medicine. This is where the most complex interventions are done, but at the same time also the scientific and teaching base, where we can improve our medical knowledge and medical skills. On the other hand, you, Mr. Minister, mentioned that one amount of money will be invested in health institutions within Serbia. I was looking there in the budget, it's probably listed under paragraphs 4007 and 4009 -- health development and additional funding, where 154 million 930 000 are defined plus 475 million 800 000 dinars. Already in your speech at the beginning of today's session, you listed several cities, health centres and hospitals in Serbia. However, among those listed, I have not heard a single city in the Sandzak municipality, or in Sandzak, or Novi Pazar, or Tutin, or Sjenica, or Priboj, or Prepolje, or Nova Varosh. If you have information that there are any of these listed institutions that will be reconstructed, I will ask you to share them with us. In 2019, we really had one enormous investment in the health system in Novi Pazar, you're right. We also got an angel stand, I run it, we got the Institute of Public Health, we got modern scanners and everything you said, a lot of it, but I have to point out that the city invested 60 million dinars in the previous year and that we did, 36 million we gave for project documentation to renovate the construction of new departments of the General Hospital, etc., we practically did a project that would turn our General Hospital into a clinical and clinical center. In July, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic announced an investment in the RTS daily for the New Pazar General Hospital of 30m euros and noted that these investments will give Novi Pazar a de facto clinical centre. The time in which we live and this time of the crown has shown us how important it is for this area, or for the New Market to be given a clinical center. He de facto is not only a cultural, industrial and economic centre, because you can see that practically in Novi Pazar we resuscitate almost half a million patients, and not only from Novi Pazar, but also from Tupani, Sjenica, Raška and, I stress, from northern Kosovo, from Leposavic, Zubino Potok, so in the season we also have Kopalnik and Goli, as large tourist centres and mainly all the injuries that happen are remedied by the General Hospital in Novi Pazar. We currently have 131 covid patients at General Hospital, most of whom are not from New Market. A large number of patients are from Raska, they are welcome, and that is why we must insist that what the president of this country has promised us as soon as possible. That's what all citizens deserve, and I'm going to repeat it here a billion times if I have to, because I think it's really imperative, and I think that way we're really going to do a big thing, not just for the people of Sandzak, but for the whole of our country. In any case, it hasn't been invested in health care for decades. The previous two governments have done a lot, and the shifts are really visible. There, we also got a large number of medical workers, I commended the minister, 182 medical workers were admitted in the past few months, which never happened. These are mostly young people who will carry the health system of that part of our country. They repeat another piece of information that you, ministers, have said, no matter how poor we are, we have had the highest number of hospitalisations compared to all EU countries. You said and I will repeat this information – up to 32% reported at one point, which shows the strength and vitality of our healthcare professionals, their zeal and desire to work. And finally, once again and I'll end up with it, the big thing is that you've increased the medics 5% of their income, not just in financial terms, but that's one motive, one reward, it's one recognition for self-burning and a really big fight that our medics do and do. In any case, I hope that we will have quality co-operation in this mandate and that we will solve all the problems of our citizens step by step, on the way to a European developed society.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1313	Thank you. Minister Maja Gojkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1314	Thank you. I thank you first for taking the time in your discussion to comment on my presentation in the area of disseminating funds for culture and information for 2021. It's interesting in our public when something bad is causing a lot of attention, and when something is good or it's moving some small or larger steps towards improving the budget that we're spending on culture, then it's kind of general silence and nobody has the strength to say, no matter what political option it belongs to or what way of thinking it's good. Well, that's hard for us, and with that barrier, we'll seem to be fighting for a long time, to admit that something good has been done to each other. Thank you for inviting me to New Market. One of my priorities in my mandate is to visit as many cities and municipalities in our country as possible, because I say, with all the respect of the capital and capital, the Novi Sad that I love the most is simply not living in just one or two cities, living in all the cities of Serbia. , it is the duty of the Minister of Culture to know how and what problems cultural workers face daily life and live in smaller municipalities and cities. Welcome to participate in the "Towns in Focus" programme, because here, we really have 200 million dinars more than in 2019, exactly 349.5 million, and as a multicultural environment, multi-confessional, you will certainly have the opportunity to perhaps be the first to be the capital of the culture of the Republic of Serbia, because we are starting with this programme this year, in preparation to begin to realize this in 2022. After all, Serbia is a Europe of small size, and perhaps we are one of the few countries today in modern Europe, in a modern world that can boast of its diversity, both religious and belonging to different peoples, and we should point out this as one of our significant bridges to Europe, including one great advantage. Serbia has been investing in culture since 2012 and is investing in large projects. It should not be ignored, nor forgotten, it should be repeatedly repeated that while Alexander Vukic was the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, major shifts were indeed made. He is the one who pushed, and I am also talking to those who are opponents of the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that they must gather courage and say that the National Museum is finished and opened in the term of the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, that the Museum of Contemporary Art was also opened in the mandate of the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, namely Ana Brnabic, and that such a policy towards the culture of the Republic of Serbia was supported by this ruling majority. You can agree or disagree, simply, these two museums can't be erased with a rubber, and they've been closed for 10 or 15 years. We lost that continuity of the museum audience in the younger generations. Do you know what it means in the history of a nation for 15 years and 15 years lost for the possibility of getting to know the cultural treasures that the National Museum owns or to look at the beauty that we have in our foundations even the Museum of Contemporary Creation? You'd be surprised how many significant artists between the people's occupation of modern creation of the HH century possess the Museum of Contemporary Art and, you know, culture is really one field that contributes to this country's budget. What was done by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, also the government chaired by Aleksandar Vukic, is a regulation introduced for the first time in our history by insentants, i.e. incentives for making films and series, firstly by foreign producers, and then by domestic production houses, and therefore we have this boom in making films and numerous series. Today I received information, i.e. I received a message from Italy that one of these companies, which is "Jervolino Entertainment", they also have a headquarters in Novi Sad, made a film that in Italy, according to the view of "Apple TV" in the Italian speech area, won the viewing of Disney production films. We should say it again, we should brag about it, not just point out what's wrong in our country. The incentives that stand out each year in the film-making budget are an extraordinary thing, because that's why we've hired a lot of people in the film industry. Today it's hard, simple, to find a free film and show crew, so they adapt to each other, and many movie stars and directors come to Serbia. It's a big ad for our country, because each of them is leaving with very positive impressions about Serbia, and especially that picture they've been taking to Hollywood, which has been unfriendly to us for years and where movies that have sent a negative side to the world about our country and some events in our recent or further history have been made. We can only be proud of what we do. Of course, we will not give up on that, but some of my goal and goal of the Serbian government is to add more money to each budget tour for cultural creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1315	I thank Minister Gojkovic. The word is Minister Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1316	Thank you very much. Just briefly to answer the question that's about the General Hospital in Novi Pazar. So when you look at the Budget, on page 70 you have a division relating to the Public Investment Management Office. There are exactly investments that the government of the Republic of Serbia is conducting in 2021 in health institutions. When the General Hospital is in Novi Pazar, here's the report I have from the office, so the technical documentation is in preparation for the reconstruction of the General Hospital in Novi Pazar. The estimated value of the works at this point, therefore, is difficult to estimate before the project itself, is 2.1 billion dinars. So that's already in the plan of the Public Investment Management Office. I guess, according to their dynamics, after technical documentation follows the tender, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1317	Thank you. Next on the list is MP Mr Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1318	Dear President, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, today we live at a time when the word of responsibility has become the most expensive Serbian word. Only with the responsible behaviour of the individual and the whole society can we come out of this crisis with as little effect on the health of the citizens, by the health system, and thus to preserve our country's economic stability. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown great responsibility and seriousness by taking the biggest burden of the crisis on itself with the draft budget for 2021. When we talk about the 2021 budget, I believe that all these projections when it comes to increasing pensions by 5.9%, increasing health pay by 5%, as well as increasing the minimum labour price of 6.6% to be achieved, although there is a very uncertain period. It seems to me that these are not populist figures, and I'm sure they're based on real projections and we can notice great caution when it comes to this projection, which is, of course, understood, because there is still an uncertain period and next year. I'm sure these results will be better, and it's good to be careful. If there's any extra funds, we'll be able to redistribute them. The 2021 budget is based on two basic pillars, raising citizens' standards, which will be achieved by increasing wages and pensions by increasing the purchasing and consumer power of citizens, on the one hand. On the other hand, an increase in capital investments, a record of 274 billion capital investments for capital projects, as well as a total investment of 330 billion dinars, is the best measure of fiscal policy to boost the state's economic recovery during this crisis period. In these large investments, the state encourages both the private sector and private investors to enter major investments. As we all know, today in Europe, the most developed countries that have an orderly social policy are also the aim of being part of this developed Europe. It also encourages the social policy budget's promise of 6.5 billion more than in the rebalance a month ago. The majority of this increase is related to various social giving programmes. However, this remains very insufficient, given the problems that arise in social policy. At this point, we have about 500,000 citizens who cannot meet the basic existential needs and every fourth citizen is at risk of poverty and this is one of the biggest problems for our society. We need to get into a situation as soon as possible so that the minimum labour price is equal to the minimum consumer basket, which is currently carrying around 38,000 dinars. I'll just remind you that the minimum labour price in 2012 was 15,000 dinars, and now there will be 32,000 dinars. There are currently over 25,000 people in Serbia with refugee status. These are our neighbors and our fellow citizens. It's a difficult fate, and it's not easy to solve, but 25 years after the war, our fellow citizens deserve to be saved and better to live. This is only part of the problem of social policy and they can be better resolved once we have completed the process of making registers of social cards, which will help us to identify the problem more easily, to know who and how we help in what way. The most endangered people will be visible in the system and will be able to resolve and exercise their rights in a timely and effective manner. The participation of agriculture in the realisation of Serbia's gross social product in recent years was between 7% and 11%. It is estimated that this year will be very good for agriculture and that agriculture has contributed significantly to economic stability this year. There is some percentage that this year's gross social product would reach 15%, and expectations are that next year will be very successful, even better. The Ministry of Agriculture budget for 2021 provides nearly 42 billion dinars for subsidies in agriculture, a record-breaking sum. Subsidy in various ways per hectare, by investment, through various subsidies, credit policy, etc. A large part of the problem in the country's policy can be solved by strategic planning, at least up to five years. That would mean a lot, especially for agricultural producers who want to know what to sow and want guaranteed ransom prices of their products. For the first time, we have three ministries - the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Villages, as well as the Ministry of Undeveloped Municipalities, which are somehow intertwined and we need to exploit, to launch the empowerment of the village, which is a very big job, as well as to pay greater attention to the underdeveloped municipalities which unfortunately have many. I will remind you that we today have 19 undeveloped municipalities in a wealthy Serbian country in Vojvodina, and perhaps now is the right time to start solving these problems through the budgets of these three ministries and the help of the entire government strategically. The diaspora administration and Serbs in the region from next year's budget have been allocated over 1.3m euros, which is enough to affirm an idea stemming from Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency member Milorad Dodik, that all citizens of Republika Srpska get the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, and many of our country's officials have supported the proposal and there is no obstacle to it being regulated legally. When Croatia and Hungary can, why can't Serbia offer citizenship to all its countrymen and outside the region. I know how much it would mean for the Serbs in Republika Srpska. I know how stared they are in Serbia and how strong and stable Serbia means to them. We who live in the AP Vojvodina know best how much it means to the citizens excellent and coordinated co-operation between the government of Serbia and the province government. The budget of the AP Vojvodina is at least 7% in relation to the Republic budget and we expect a lot of joint capital investments in Vojvodina territory next year. I welcome the government's decision not to decide on new employment in the public sector on January 1st, but the institutions themselves, according to their own problems and opportunities. The JS parliamentary group will support next year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1319	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Dr. Emesha Uri, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1320	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the SVM will support the 2021 bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget because the best possible allocation of existing funds, and since I come from the health sector, I would have a few things. First, the basic fact is that the health sector, i.e. the health sector, is an extremely expensive activity, especially as every day becomes more complex, increasingly technological, requires more and more knowledge, the skill of those involved in this activity. This results in the need for increasing isolation from society in general, both from individuals and consequently we have the feeling that health is extremely expensive, and now we see it in real life, and especially now that the epidemic is in progress, when our resources, our forces are employed in health care and health care workers and unhealthy at the edge of strength, as well as the patience and strength of our citizens, our patients are also at the end. I lost a family member myself in this disease, a few colleagues who worked nearby, so I don't condone any exaggeration of this disease. What I think is very important to praise, that Mr. Minister himself has noticed and confirmed the fact, is that in addition to the economy, besides the military and health care, it is very important to preserve the overall ability of the society to attract. In order to be able to do this, we need to be healthy. In order to defend our country, we must be healthy. To pray for healthy offspring, we must likewise be healthy. That's why health care is so important. I'd just like a few statistics that you can run online on your own. Perhaps each of you is following the daily reports of the world and other countries on the movement of Kovida-19. According to the number of tests done in our country, we're somewhere in the 70s. In front of us are Western countries, rich countries, and behind us are countries from the environment – Slovakia, Croatia, Poland, Macedonia, Bosnia and Japan. As for the total number of tests carried out, it's about two million. When divided by the number of inhabitants, that means that somewhere 28% of the population has passed the Kovida-19 discovery test. Unfortunately, it's not quite the right number because it often happens to count control tests. What's remarkable, which is, now I have to say, the number of deaths in relation to millions of people. When looking at where our country is, we are the 62nd state, but it should be noted that in front of us, that is, a number of deaths from Kovida-19 per million inhabitants have virtually everything Western, rich countries. It means that we have something and we need to take advantage of it and that we should be proud of our health system. The next essential feature of this health system is, in addition to what I just said was technological, that it was expensive, that it needed equipment, people. Perhaps the key to some success, despite the limited material possibilities, is in this particular factor of the people in health and health care workers. These unhealthy workers allow healthcare professionals to provide adequate help, save lives, and improve quality of life despite sickness. That is why it is very important, I am now very sorry that no one from the Ministry of Health is present, but I assume you will pass on, to revise the human resources of health institutions and to monitor the demographic characteristics of each individual region. It should be borne in mind that there are nursing and single households that require different conditions of treatment and different material requirements have for this treatment than for multi-member families, i.e. the working population. It is not necessary to forget what we have forgotten this year, unfortunately, that there are chronic non-infectious diseases that are around us and that are harassing and taking also a large number of lives and resulting in loss of working ability. It is diabetes mellitus, increased pressure, malignancies, obesity, obstructive diseases, etc. As a result, when considering the human resources plan of a health care institution, you should consider reintroducing a number of hospital, field care professionals, nurses who and how they can help medium-sized people in the health system, where a large number of some working hours could be solved in this way. It should also be considered that they are engaged in emergency medical care or that a term should also be introduced when “paramedicus. ” Perhaps you should consider the fact that drivers are in the medical care of these people who can be “paramedicals. ” They participate in providing health care, taking part in saving people, patients, and are not adequately scored or materially, nor are they admitted to doing so. So there is one great potential to improve the health system. We must not forget another important thing, the same thing we saw during this epidemic of modern health goes into step along with technological development. We would practically not have any information adequate today if we did not have “e health care. ” So, the IT sector, workers in technical and information education, are very important in health care and should be revised in the human resources of health institutions. In addition to the employees and the equipment themselves, it is very important that the government of the Republic of Serbia, fortunately, puts a great accent that SVM certainly welcomes all the praise for this, but besides this modern equipment, it should be thought that it must be present at all levels, in all institutions where healthcare is provided. If we have the equipment and we have the proper infrastructure, which we're really working on right now, we must not forget that it costs the maintenance of that equipment. Energy, telecommunications, IT equipment and services, fuel, maintenance of equipment and vehicles, maintenance of facilities in the last few years have been extremely expensive, and the defined amount that healthcare institutions receive from RFZO have practically remained the same or even smaller than they were in 2019. This creates a major financial problem for institutions and a great possibility that they can practically go into debt. On this occasion, I would point out that during the second development project of the Republic of Serbia's health care, hospitals are expected to move to the "Drdg System" of funding, which means diagnostic related groups, and primarily because the case of Western countries has shown that this is much more economical, because practically patients do not lie in the hospital for diagnosis to be done and is working on modernising and surgical interventions, as fast as possible, one-day surgical interventions and practically patients remain very short, as short as possible, in hospitals. That means the practically expenditures of that hospital are smaller. However, in the field we have a problem in supplying, in care, in monitoring these patients released from the hospital, practically this burden, the material burden primarily shifts to health homes. So they're going out in the field to rewind patients, like they did today during Kovid. Probably, you've all heard that patients are not being admitted or released very early from the hospital, and therefore selected doctors with field service come out and oversee their recovery. It also implies that sanitary transport has been increased due to controls and that early exit from the hospital. So again, I'm stressing, this is how it was saved on the secondary and the terrier, but certainly at primary health care level, the costs are increased, actually these costs are allocated. What I would add is that because of this increased number of outages in the patient's homes, there is an even greater wear-out of the already worn-out fleet, which means a much higher cost of maintenance of the vehicle. For this reason, I believe it is necessary to plan more funds in the financial plan of the RFO for other material costs, fuel, energy and maintenance of equipment and facilities in the future. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the SVM parliamentary group will support the 2021 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1321	Thank you. Since we have two other members of parliament on the list, I would like to ask that we be brief, concise and clear. The word is Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1322	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Comrade President, Your Honor, Mr. Mali with Associates, Your Honor, Maya has come out, I rarely discuss. Those who knew me earlier were my last discussion when "Belgrade on Water" was supported as development projects. Since the time is short, and I want my young colleagues to have a word, I will be very brief, although I was announced as a great debater. The budget's great, Mr. Mali. I listened to Djuru Peric, my friend and Mark Atlagic, I'm third, you have the support of three important communists, it's very important for your career, remember. This isn't a joke. There are 80 MPs here, buy you a drink because your career is going up, we have no criticism. The budget is good, the construction of traffic infrastructure is phenomenal, I'm just discussing what I know, I'm not going any further, 127 billion from the funds allocated to the ministry. I'm adding 18 billion expropriations, you probably put there, I guess there's a metro, although I have questions for the subway, and that's about 144 billion just in Serbia's traffic infrastructure. It never was. I've been following budgets since I was 70, and unfortunately, I wish I was younger, but I'm not. It's your success and I congratulate you on that. I have three questions. It is not good that, in the budget, only a sentence appears -- the public enterprises of JP "The Paths of Serbia" and "the Corridors" are deprived of the funds, in part, of the subsidies you give, regardless of how they finance themselves, but I also know how much trouble it has been and now in front of the rebalancing, so I haven't even discussed that you've given a large portion of the funds and covered some losses. Once again, maintenance is just as important as construction. That's what I'm saying for these young fellow MPs. You have to explain that in places where you come from. It's a relapse and Communism and socialism. We didn't keep roads or houses, nothing, and now what's going on is happening. So, I pray that in that part, I don't know what your idea of "The Roads" is, I didn't understand it from here on out, public "The Paths of Serbia", if there is a need for reform, and it's not a big deal, but "The Corridors of Serbia" should project, build highways, and "The Paths of Serbia" to maintain roads. It's a very important maintenance. I point out once again, I'm saying this because of the younger MPs, two things are about such big projects, you call them capital investments, it's a term of communism, but let's accept it too, it's very important that the state and the money stand behind it. In the years behind us, I've spent 50 years, it rarely happened that political will, I say Vukic, I won't praise him very much, because Palma praises him very much, so I don't want to be a halftron, and money defines development, and you who have to pass it on to the citizens must have patience and not be very angry. I know what pisses you off, criticism, and it pisses me off. Criticism doesn't piss you off. Have patience, because there are always two kinds of resistance when you talk about development. This is a development budget, from citizens who don't understand things, which is completely understandable and there's patience and from holes that have other interests in all times, in all times, it's not just this time, but in times of communism and in times of Free and Tito, etc., there are resistances that are harder. So patience, people talk about development, and now we're all people who do development, because this is the development budget, a good budget, and that's our job. One more thing, I've seen, it might not be right to talk about it right now, but I have to say it, because I'm not answering that subject anymore. You said that for the subway in the opening statement you have the means, I guess that's in this group of money that's in the finance ministry, 17 billion for expropriation. It would be good if an item appeared somewhere – projecting, because it is very important that we are already projecting for the next five years. So, in this year, the Ministry gets what, or I don't know, one common item with you at the Ministry of Finance to provide the projects in time. The biggest problem we've had so far, and I as a minister with unprepared documentation, I just said, "preparation, in construction takes half the time, half the time and half the money is carrying the building, preparing the half, and in preparation are projects and expropriations." Last question, I saw here an item relating to the cleaning of the Danube. And in my term, it was an item, and I personally as a minister managed to throw it out, because the Germans offered credit to clear the Danube for the ships that they submerged in World War II, because I felt it was not honorable for us to pay for something they did in World War II. Now I hear again that there's an idea to take a loan from Germany to clean up the same ships. I'm asking, a little question isn't convenient maybe, but consider it my trip, which Ivica Dacic will explain to you – what about war damage? Do you, as a minister, think about war damage? It was defined in 2000 to 110 billion dollars. Of course, I understand the political situations and times we're in, but I'm asking if anyone's thinking about it? Maybe there should be a skillful policy here, and you have today's skilled politicians at the head of the state, to get some things in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1323	Thank you, fellow Mrkonjic. I have to turn you off. I'm sorry, Comrade Mrkonjic. You didn't jump out much, everything's fine. The minister will answer in the end, since we still have one letter on the list. The word has the People's MP Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1324	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us the Budget Law as the most important law, we are free to say in one calendar year, which is definitely planned for the next year, therefore, in 2021. Having a development budget in times of crisis, especially pandemic, caused by the Kovid-19 virus, is very important. So we heard that a number of capital investments are planned under this budget, we heard that there are expected to be an increase in public sector wages, in health care, an increase in pensions, which is very, very significant. As for the end from which I come, specifically Sandzak, we are under construction of the Master's Road Novi Pazar – Tutin and I am expected to see that construction and completion in this year, which is very positive. What should be included in some of the following budgets, since this is not envisaged is several highways that are of exceptional importance for all citizens who live there, which is the highway Novi Pazar – Sjenica, the highway Novi Pazar – Ribarići and the reconstruction of the road Raška – Novi Pazar. On the other hand, the pipeline, the railways, the highway, everything that is essential to the stay, the prosperity of one end, especially the municipalities that have been for many years, can be said freely and for decades devastated. What is very important is another important point, and I would like from the honourable minister and to get an answer to that question, which is the issue of gender-responsible budgeting. As I recall, in 2015, the Law on the Budgetary System introduced the principle of gender-responsible budgeting and some time frame was around 2020, that it is actually being concrete, that it is being implemented from the aspect of all budgetary commitments, and I am curious whether this tool has been implemented as very important within the budget itself by all budgetary users? Why do we actually need a gender-responsible budgeting? Exactly the intention of this tool is not to divide the budget into flies and women, but to recognize the needs of certain categories in society itself and to find the best way to respond to their own needs? For example, I will list health care in the country or even in smaller cities that are not equal to the health care of women in larger cities. Sometimes in the country, the infirmary is a long way off, on the other hand, maybe shut down. The number of specialist examinations is very small and we come up with a situation where, say, health care costs one such woman a lot, or it's possible that she doesn't get it at all. I wonder, then, how much gender-responsible budgeting do we actually have in practice and especially according to local self-government? Is the word being implemented in the right sense, because it can be used very well as a tool, unlike the birthary of the internal budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1325	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I would like to ask if there are any presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups reporting for the word? Since there is no, before I give the word of the Minister, to the motionary representative, I would like to ask, on behalf of all the MPs, that the National Assembly is the target of various disinformations, which is largely undisputed, I would especially like to ask, since I did not notice that someone was talking about it today, and since in the public opinion in certain media for several days it has been written that the MPs have proposed and voted for themselves on a committee of higher wages than I don't know, three and a half percent, I haven't followed everything, and also that the increased travel costs relative to the budget rebalances of 40 and some million and no one is talking about those travel expenses for abroad, which is not going to happen, but rather the costs for the work of the National Assembly, for the expenses of travel that you have as MPs and employees working in the National Assembly. No one points out that it's not about any increase, because last year the basic budget was proposed, always in the last five years about 150 million for it, even more when the elections were held. Since this year's crown is still going on, since the Assembly didn't work because of the crown, there were elections and it didn't work, the budget rebalance reduced it to 119 million, which we recently adopted. From that account, since no one gets into the essence, it turns out that we've increased our own travel expenses and wages. I'm sorry to abuse this time as president of the National Assembly, but I think it's very important that you say that whether it's true or not. We didn't ask for any increase. Both for everyone else and for us. So I ask all of us to defend our dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly everywhere and in every place. That's all we can do with the truth. Minister Mali, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1326	Thank you very much, Mr. Dacic. Let me answer both of the questions you asked immediately. So, as of January 1st, there has been an increase in public sector wages. I will repeat once again 5% for all medical workers, 3.5% for all others in the public sector as of April 1st. That amount will be 5% total. Therefore, this applies to all employees, including Members of Parliament. So you didn't make anything up about it. If you prefer, I'll answer directly. It's a simple government position. We're going up in the public sector. I explained a few times before and repeatedly that the salary increase in the private sector is accompanied by an increase in wages in the public sector. As of January 1st, we are going to increase the minimum earnings of 6.6%, which has a directly proportional impact and on the level of total salaries, average salaries in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the travel expenses of the National Assembly, I have some data, just to read it to you here, since I've been doing a little bit of it. So for 2019, the total budget planned was about 200 million dinars. The use was 143 million dinars, and for 2020, 149.7 million dinars were planned to cost, due to Kovid 19, the pandemic of the virus was not able to travel, so the amount was reduced to 119.9. You just said 120. In the budget for next year you have 155 million dinars for travel expenses, so less than in 2019. What if it pleases you, just to answer the honourable messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1327	Thank you for that. I'm sorry I intervened. I wanted to get out of your mouth, as a pronoun, all citizens, since we have no other way. We can't argue with the media, but to really see that the National Assembly or the MPs didn't do anything, nor did they ask in the end, it was your proposal as a ministry when it comes to a plan to increase wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1328	I believe that the National Assembly is doing a very responsible job and, of course, all the MPs here and that simply that international co-operation and travel are part of your work. Expecting things to get normal, if I can put it that way, after the pandemic that next year these trips will open up and those contacts will be even more intense. Defacto, what we were looking at was about the amount you had planned and for 2020.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1329	Let me just say, I suggest you change the name of that item's travel expenses. You're making a mistake now. It's not about travel costs abroad, it's about so-called travel expenses, because every MP has the right to do so, and it must be ensured, as well as for any employee who travels to his place of work. And your item is called - travel expenses and then everyone thinks it's a trip abroad. In this segment you speak the smallest part of travel abroad. I wanted everyone to know that. Are we going to do the assembly or are we not going to do the assembly? If we want the congregation to work, then we have as much as it is when the congregation works normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1330	Thank you. So, to answer the question that is related to gender-responsible budgeting. As finance minister, every year I come up with a plan that is related to the number of users and the introduction of users into gender-responsible budgeting. What I am pleased to tell you is that this plan is public, so on the Ministry of Finance website you can see it and at this point we have 33 users who are already responsible for budgeting, making their budget. The number of users increases year after year. So, we'll be even more committed, more committed to getting as many users involved in the shortest time period as possible. Just two things that are very important to me. Thank you so much for your comments on the capital budget. When designing the first line of the subway, let me inform you that the design is already in progress. It's a donation from the French government we got. The company Egis from France is already very busy. In April, we will have completed a project on the basis of which a building permit can be obtained, which is related to the construction of a depot on the Maquis field. By January of the month, or I apologize, by December of next year, a first-line subway project will also be completed. So on that side, I also know that, as was the case for "Belgrade on Water", it is very important not to stop with the project, so that these activities are in full swing and with the completion of the project in April and with all the other activities that we already have in the plan and that we are absolutely on schedule to start working on the construction of a depot in the Maquis field as the first works that are related to the construction of the Belgrade subway. It's a promise we made and a promise we'll keep. A brief finding regarding Serbia's roads and corridors. I absolutely agree who needs to work, what you said you were absolutely right. For your information this year, 26.9 billion for corridors, 17.7 for Serbia's pathways from the Republika Srpska budget has been allocated. A huge amount of money that is much bigger than the amount of money from 2019 and that speaks enough about how much we want to invest in the road industry, rehabilitating existing road traffic, in building new roads, in building new highways. For our GDP, too, every kilometer of asphalt that is made, every bridge that is made, affects our GDP directly, so we have these growth rates that we have this year and therefore we invest more next year to achieve a 6% growth rate, as is in the budget that is before you. I want to thank you, honourable MPs, for the constructive debate, for the debate that was full of suggestions, in part and criticism and remarks about what and how we should do better, but this budget that is before you today, this budget is the one that will lay and lay the foundations for fulfilling the promises and the programme "Serbia 2025". So by the end of 2025, with investments that we are planning already in 2021, with an increase in salaries and pensions that we have already put into this budget for next year, we are going towards the goal of investing 14 billion euros in additional money and at the end of 2025 we have salaries, the average salary in our country of 900 euros, the average pension of 430 euros. This means that Serbia will look completely different in just a few years from now. We are on a good path and I remain at my disposal for the next two days to answer questions related to the accompanying laws that go with the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-08-0.u1331	Thank you. I thank the Minister, Sinishi Malo. I also thank Minister Maja Gojkovic who was present. After we've finished the debate, I conclude a principled single search into this bill's proposal. Tomorrow at 10:00, we move on, like we talked about, like we said. Tomorrow's main search is about the rest of the agenda, the day after tomorrow, there will be a debate in detail and afternoon, when the debate is over, it will be a day to vote. I thank everyone, I thank the representatives of the government and the MPs. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is present, the 101 MPs currently reported. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the halls, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 144 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic, Dragan M. Markovic, Marijan Risticevic, Djordje Komlenski and Jelena Mihajlovic. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts from items 2 to 6 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly inform you that they are also invited to attend the meetings of Siniš Mali, Minister of Finance, Saša Stevanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Darko Komnenic, Assistant Minister of Finance Marko Gvero, Executive Director of the Treasury Ministry of Finance, Ana Tripovic, Director of the Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance, Ana Jovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Milesa Marjanović, Head of Finance Department, Natasa Škembarović and Vera Vukcevic Gligorić, Head of the Department of the Treasury Office, Olivera Ružić Poparić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Irena Injac, Head of the Group at the Finance Ministry. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on proposals for acts from the agenda under points 2 to 6 and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that under Article 97. The Rules of Procedure have a total time of debate for parliamentary groups of five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 192. Rules of Procedure, I open a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law to the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt, the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Uncredited Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade" under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise of the Skiing of Serbia – Belgrade under the Treaty on Long-term Investment Credit for the Construction of the Brzeća Gondola – Mali Karaman and the Proposal for a Decision to give consent to the Decision on the amendments and addition of the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for PIO 2020. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah, he checked in. Here you go.
