ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Since there's no SPS, feel free to come, even though it's the eighth session. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. I remind you that it is necessary for the quorum for work to be attended by most of the total number of MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 155 MPs are present in the hall at present, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. As you know, on Tuesdays, based on article 287. The Rules of Procedure, Presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, may request a notice or an explanation. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to ask for a notice or an explanation? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1837	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I have one question and an explanation to ask of the police minister. How and what is the plan to get in the way of organised crime in Serbia and Novi Pazar? As the public knows, last week we had a dialogue between Minister Vulin and I on the situation in Novi Pazar. As citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia know, the public is alarmed by the relentless scenes, events, the outpouring of crime and haughtiness, where in a few days there have been gunfights in the middle of the day. What's important is that this mob gunfight took place outside a police station in Novi Pazar. How come so much haughtiness and courage to people who are previously known to the institutions of this country who deal with security, the Ministry and intelligence agencies, to behave so freely? So, we welcomed the arrival of the minister of police in Novi Pazar, but this will not solve the problem, nor will it solve the problem that we will have increased patrols and traffic control and motor vehicles in Novi Pazar. In order to solve the problem essentially, in order to essentially deal with organised crime both in Novi Pazar and in Serbia, we must have structural changes within the New Pazar area police administration. So, it can't happen that at the recommendation of someone who's known to the institutions of this country as a boss, as someone who deals with illicit operations, people in the police, in the judiciary, in the prosecution to hire and when they hire someone, so you can think about who that clerk is going to work for. So it doesn't matter if he's a police officer, whether the prosecutor's office or the court is Bosniak, Serb, Hungarian, Roma, it's important that a professional is important, and therefore we have to give full support to those institutions and financial through salaries, and we'll talk through a set of laws, among other things, and in the public sector, but we also give them full logistics support that they can do jobs to the end. So, in order to deal with organised crime both in Novi Pazar and in Serbia, we need to cut off the link between individual police officers and criminals. It can't happen that criminals have official IDs, that they have badges, and when some honest and honest official stops them, then he's kind of suffering the consequences of how he dared to stop that and that clerk. I want to illustrate in this House the situation that happened in New Market those days. When the shooting took place, when a citizen was injured, when a bullet that had ricochet, a citizen who went to kindergarten with a child, when she was injured, the chiefs, the head of the New Pazar area police department sent two officers to search the night bar, a local people who participated in the incident. I'm asking the Minister's question under command - why didn't the intervention police go? Those two officers, that's a testimony the Market charter knows, and they know for sure and the police department's in charge, for half an hour they couldn't get in to search that place. Why? Well, to get it out, move it, destroy everything that would be found out through a legal, routine investigation. So it is very important that we also have the percentage representation of minority communities in the police, but more important than that, we have professionals who will have the support of parliament, who will have the support of the government to do their job fairly. We have two police departments in Sandzak territory, one in Novi Pazar, the other in Prepolje. There may be a better situation in Prezpolje, but we are currently in a process where a new head of the district police administration should arrive. A person who has been contaminated by contacts with organised crime and with people from that mile is not allowed to come to the head of the Prepolje District Police Administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1838	Thank you. It's been five minutes. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1839	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia today is a symbol of new values in the region and, I would say, a factor of stability. Serbia clearly advocates peace, good neighbourly relations, stability, prosperity and co-operation. Serbia has a clear and principled view, which is that if there are open issues, then the open issues are resolved through dialogue, not by unilateral acts, unilateral moves, because the time behind us has shown that unilateral acts, unilateral moves do absolutely nothing good. Serbia also has the view of staying out of the internal affairs of other countries. Why did I make this shorter introduction? To ask a specific question to the foreign minister, or the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, as far as our recent ambassador to Montenegro is concerned. The question is whether a contact has been established and whether new authorities and Montenegro's new government have been discussed with the launch of a possible initiative to return to Montenegro, and if so, what is the outcome of these talks? Because I'm a little worried about the statement by Montenegro's newly elected prime minister in Brussels. In the campaign, he criticised the decision to annul the 1918 Podgorica Assembly on Serbia's accession, and now claims it is insulting Montenegro's sovereignty. I don't want to believe it, but the question is, is this a continuation of the policy demonstrated by the former regime? To remind you, the former regime has just blamed the president of Serbia and Serbia for interfering directly with the elections in Montenegro, although the president of the Republic of Serbia did not call on citizens to vote for someone, for any political option in Montenegro. That's what Rama and the others did. But it's not a direct mix for them, because it probably suits them. Serbia was not interested in government in Montenegro, Serbia is interested in key things, and these are our citizens living in Montenegro, the status of our citizens living in Montenegro and who have 29%. I personally think there are more, and we'll see what it is when a new list is completed, I hope there will be a new census in Montenegro. We are interested in the property of the SPC which was the object of the attack of the former regime and it cannot challenge any international convention to defend our sanctity. When they say someone is directly involved in the internal affairs of a single state, in particular Montenegro, the question arises whether Kosovo's recognition by Montenegro, for example, is bringing Montenegro into Serbia's internal issue? I think there's really enough more fear of Montenegro with Serbian hegemonism, and I think that's what we finally need to put an end to. For this reason, I believe it is important that we receive a concrete answer to this question, in order to remove, in the view of the SPS Group, one unfair, incorrect and incorrect decision. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1840	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1841	Mr. President, what I'm about to say is I'm not inspired by my first appearance today, but I think I thought I'd come out with that proposal. We are rightly potential, and this country is rightly dealing with economic problems, fighting the virus and not counting further. But it is not mentioned anywhere in a situation where, as Serbia, day by day, we are increasingly pressured by an inocomponent from the international community, and in particular by the increasing work of foreign intelligence services towards Serbia. Are we so naive that we think that everything that's going on inside here and here every day we mention those who attack everything that's going on positively in this country, do we think that there's no foreign intelligence behind them? I think and I'm sure they're standing. For this reason, I propose and think, since there is no time to explain beyond, that we should sit down as soon as possible and in the new circumstances both within the country and outside the country review the National Security Strategy, to consider and innovate where it is justified to complete the security system of this country, and especially in view of what I said earlier, that particular attention should also be given to organisational and cadrological review, i.e. to reorganise and strengthen the intelligence and security system. The question is, is it justified, for example, that what we took as a position a few years ago, that through diplomatic activity, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we do not use it as an instrument in intelligence and counterintelligence, in order to protect this country, etc., etc., until coordination of the Security Service is strongly strengthened because it is not sufficient in these conditions? I can't go into it now, I'm working out, etc., but I think all these issues that would change this country's relationship to the security component and to the security of its own protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1842	Thank you. The word is Milenko Jovanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1843	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, my question today will be asked again to the investigative authorities of the state of Serbia and the police and the prosecutor's office, but also to the BIA and concerns one topic that was not so public, and I think it is very important, because it has done direct damage to the citizens of Serbia, but also to the company in question. In fact, it is a multi-annual one, and it can even be said to be a decades-old imaginary, organized, planned robbery of "Telecoma Serbia". So in this question we have three important points that happened in this process. The first point is essentially destroying Telecom through poor governance, if it can be called bad governance. As an example, I'll give you some data. Telecom left its retail infrastructure to its competition and now a logical question is being asked – why does someone do it? Why leave something that is your comparative advantage to the bagatel directly to the competitor? In the period since, say, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, it means in these few years, when cable TV operators had serious turmoil on the market, serious changes in Telecom slept. While the SBB was buying small operators, Telecom was doing nothing. The result was that SBB, as a direct competitor, increased to 54% of the market. The worst situation in the Telecom robbery is seen through the Internet. In 2012, "Telecom" had 331 thousand Internet users more than SBB, but in 2018 because Telecom did nothing, the SBB was overrun by the number of Internet users. Now the question is, why is that? Because there was a political and because there was a managerial organisation, an organized group that influenced that Telecom behaves like this, that the Telecom in the race with its hands and legs is being tied together, so that the competition grows, Telecom stagnates and collapses, and that happens by 2018 when Telecom finally starts acting normal, starts acting like a serious company, buys certain operators, expands the number of users, but at that point the third important moment is happening, which is that the SBB forms its political wing. Today we testify that the political wing of the SBB at the daily level is trying to bring down Telecom, trying to challenge Telecom's right to compete on the market, trying to challenge Telecom's right to grow and develop, trying to do what they realized they had to do. In order to stop Telecom growth, in order to continue the work of SBB, they must take over political leverages in this country to prevent and replace the Telecom development strategy by developing a private company, by working for a private company, not Telecom itself. So I want to ask - who are these people in Telecom who worked for SBB? Who are these people who have been paid by the SBB not to work for a company in which they operate, but for a rival, or competitive company? Who are these people who have allowed SBB to triple the value of the company from 2012 to 2018, and in the period from 2007 to 2018 by nine times, not by 9%, but by nine times the value of the company? Who are these people who made it possible for SBB to come to 2.6 billion euros without Telecom being sold for a billion? Who are these people who, in this way, have made money out of your pocket, because you get dividends from Telecom? Who were the ones who broke out of the Serbian state budget? Someone's got to answer for this robbery. This question needs to be discussed and I want answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1844	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorized representatives, are... I'm sorry. The word is Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is to propose a agenda item called the Code of Conduct. Now, the code of conduct for those of us who are in parliament, and what about those who are attacking us and not in parliament? When Parliament responds to them, then individual media attacks each individual, such as the abuse of a MP in parliament, responds to the one whom he attacked without being a parliamentary party or individual. Let's see how we forbid it, actually we can't ban it, but what are the measures for those who attack the family of high-ranking officials? Serbia has become, I may say, the worst in contempt of the law. As long as we tolerate those who lie, who attack today, everyone can form a party and say, "Here, he's the president of a party called "I don't know how," he has the right to dialogue. What dialogue? The dialogue should be done by those who are representative samples, like the union in the firm? You have an example. Ten unions, two, three are not representative. They're called unions, but nothing means what they say and they're not representative. A large number of parties went to the polls, didn't cross the censorship. The others didn't go to the polls because they knew they couldn't cross the census, so the excuse is, I don't know, that the media is closed and I don't know what. Ladies and gentlemen, we either need to supplement laws concerning those who threaten the safety of politicians, high-ranking officials of this country or apply existing laws. What does this code mean? To see the EU as we are, as something, civilized, they want to civilize us in the 21st century. Let us once deal with the truth and with what is happening in Serbia and that every bill that comes into this Parliament is benefiting from it, whether to respect the law or to respect some who say human rights are at stake, and they can use a motor saw to enter RTS. What were the criminal measures here? Nothing. What are we coming here for? Beating empty straw in parliament? We can't answer them. Watch out for God. Please, when we're proposing laws, especially this code, so we're not going to be in this code right now to see if anyone's wearing a mustache or not, or I don't know what. I know what the code is, thank God, every single one of us sitting here, and I couldn't blame any of the MPs for not getting dressed up or, I don't know, saying something that doesn't look like this Parliament. There's something called an effect. In effect when someone attacks you, muds you, lies, and where will the MP answer him than in parliament? The MPs are representatives of political parties. The people have sent MPs to parliament and have the right and for this right they have immunity, and if they think that the MP is lying about him, and none of the MPs have ever been the first to attack anyone from the opposition except that he responded to something, even the MPs are not invited to immunity when they are sued and courted, and they don't even come to trial, they don't come to the hearing because the truth is on this other side. I also ask you, Mr. President, as President of Parliament and the heads of Parliament, that we all act, and not only are we working, tomorrow will be the point of the agenda that someone evaluates our work, etc. Well, if they had evaluated our work, honestly, without applying double arches, we would have been in the EU by now, but as such, we would have bothered them because Serbia's economic development differs from the most developed countries in Europe, not to speak or mention names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1846	Thank you. What Mr. Markovic was talking about will be the topic of this very session, we hope to accept the motion for an emergency procedure, but let's move on. I just want to say that all that stuff doesn't turn out to be that what you're asking here stays between us. So, our services, or the General Secretariat, immediately after your questions or requests for notice have been asked questions, are immediately sent in writing to all those you have entitled to ask, outside of this institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Djordje Komlenski, Dragan M. Markovic, Dr Vesna Ivković and Justina Pupin Kosćal. The Assembly of this session, which has been delivered to you, contains a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure require the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the putting on the agenda of emergency acts, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds proposed that, after an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the President of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 182, for – 171, were not voted by 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of the member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 182, for – 174, was not voted by eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have proposed to put the proposal on the agenda for a decision to elect a president and a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. In total, 182 voted for – 173, nine MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the election of members of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors and the Order of the Faculty of Law Professors be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. In total, 183 voted for – 175, eight MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the election of members of the High Council of Judges is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. In total, 183 voted for – 175, eight MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. In total, 182, nine MPs did not vote for – 174. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 182, for – 174, was not voted by eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac and the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 182, for – 174, was not voted by eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that, in an urgent procedure, the draft decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lebanon and the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. In total, 184, 10 MPs did not vote for – 174. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. The Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Code of Conduct of the Members of Parliament be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 184, for – 176, was not voted by eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal. National MP Ana Karadzic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the session on the agenda - the draft law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica. Does the MP, Ana Karadzic, want a word? (Yes) Here, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1847	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, over a year ago we submitted a motion to amend the Law on Judges to equalise the judge's salary of criminal courts with the other salaries of the other judges, because we believe that this is indeed necessary under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Violent courts were introduced into the judiciary system more than 10 years ago. They deal with serious matter, fight corruption, the budget system, deal with customs, etc. What is important is that judges of criminal courts must meet absolutely the same criteria and conditions as all other judges who come to office in other courts. That is why we find it unfair to have significantly less wages and coefficients. To point out that, except for their earnings in courts, except for the profit of criminal judges, all other court employees and in that court have the same salaries as in other courts, which is completely paradoxical. Judges of criminal courts use more than 270 laws in their work, more than 800 sublegal acts, which means they need to really possess special skills. When we talk about the environment and countries such as Montenegro, Slovenia, BiH, Republika Srpska, Macedonia, etc. These are the tasks done by the judges of the criminal courts there by the judges of the basic, appeal, senior courts, which means that their knowledge must be the same as when we talked about the conditions and criteria for their positioning. When we talk about the budget and in order to finance this equalisation of their salaries, we can give information that in 2018, for example, the Belgrade Criminal Court entered in the budget of the Republic of Serbia a billion and 222 million dinars, and their salaries amounted to around 465 million, which means three times more contributions than are spent on their salaries. In order to equate their salaries with judges of other courts, about 250 million dinars need to be allocated, which I really don't think is a great figure because they triple the budget. For this reason, I hope that fellow MPs will accept this proposal and that we will be able to reduce the discrimination they have been suffering for 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1848	Thank you. I'm just saying that you submitted this amendment to the Law on Judges on 16 November, so you didn't file it a year ago, but on November 16th. What happened in the previous session is not what I'm getting into. I'm talking about a new proposal. You have also proposed several more attacks, amendments to the Law on Enforcement, the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission for Investigations and the determination of the number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression pact. Not entering into the essence of what you are proposing, I also last time urged that these topics be agreed with the relevant ministry and made the right decision. Any different approach to this can hardly lead to an appropriate goal. So it's my suggestion now that we don't discuss it at every session because you have the right to ask for it, that when the regular session is over, we talk to the relevant ministries, not that we're saying this now. It turns out that we are not in favour of forming a Commission to determine the number of victims, etc. You're right as MPs, and I'm not going into it at all. I just said this to explain that we are not against all this, but that for procedural reasons and absence of consultation on the subject, this proposal cannot be accepted. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: of a total of 182, 177 MPs did not vote for – five. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Bojan Torbica suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the Commission's education to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression pact. People's MP Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1849	Thank you. Dear President, comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen fellow MPs, the Serbian state and people had to defend their independence and freedom six times during the 20th century, and had to oppose at that time the greatest military forces and their neo-colonial claims. I think we all believe that Serbia has fought a lot in the past, bled and died and that it is time to live, work and create for this Serbia, but even if we ignore the past, we will not have the right to the future. A little over two decades ago, the NATO Alliance, without the UN Security Council's consent and contrary to international law, without any reason or right, committed aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. During an unequal fight against an disproportionate enemy of our military and police forces, during the two and a half months of heroic defenses, 753 were killed, of which 581 soldiers and 172 police officers were killed, according to currently available data. At the same time it died, please pay attention to over 2,500 thousand, and about 12,500 thousand civilians wounded. I had to say this over and over since the exact number of dead and wounded to this day has not been established. Most of the data we have available today has been identified during the first years since the end of NATO's aggression, as after the five-octobaric coup in 2000 there has been violent change and power and then the DOS government has been important to free more than 200 of the worst terrorists, so-called. The KLA, responsible for some of the worst crimes against the civilian population, members of the military and police, not to determine the number of killed and wounded Serbian citizens. What our public is weakly aware of is the fact that unlike the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska since January 2013 the Republic Centre for the Research of War, War Crimes and the search for missing persons who are now bringing work to determine the number of victims during the 1991-1995 civil war in BiH. In this way, for the first time in the history of the Serbian people, we will get a fully documented list of victims, and therefore I appeal to this home for the need to establish a special state body as in Republika Srpska, adopt a proposal and make a decision to form a commission that would once and for all establish the exact number of killed and wounded citizens of the Republic of Serbia during the criminal NATO aggression, to put an end to this issue once and see the full size of the crime committed against our people and to disable any of its revitalisation and revisions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1850	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: of a total of 181, for – eight, abstention – one, 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic suggested that a joint principled single search be carried out on: 1. The draft Law amending the Law on Civil Service Employees and Self-Government Law; Proposal for a Law amending the Law amending the Law on Public Service Employees; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Public Agency Employees and Other Organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province or the Local Self-Government Unit; Proposal for a Law on the Delegation of the Republic of Serbia to the United Credit Bank Serbia a.d. Belgrade for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica Project; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the Elimination of Double Taxation in relation to Income Taxes and the Prevention of Taxation of Taxation and the Taxation of Taxation of Taxation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Serbia's Republic to the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia and the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia. 2. Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the President of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures; Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures; Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the State Council of Prosecutors in the Order of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors and of the Order of the Professors of the Faculty of Law; Proposal for a decision to elect members of the High Council of Judges; Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice; Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President of the Court of Justice; Proposal for a decision to terminate the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac and the President of the Court of Justice in Belgrade and a Decision on the termination of the Court of Justice in the General Public Prosecutors in the New Pazar, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Leban and the Court of Beban. I suppose MP Aleksandar Martinovic doesn't want a word. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: of a total of 182, for – 168, 14 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 183 for – 171, 12 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2020, in general. I ask the Service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on civil servants, which was submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Public Service Employees Act, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the Autonomous Province and the Unit of Local Self-Government, submitted by the Government, 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on salaries of employees of public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, which was submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Unity Bank of Serbia A.D. Belgrade for the financing of the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica project, which was submitted by the Government, 7. Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hong Kong of the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the Elimination of Double Taxation in relation to Income Taxes and Assets and the Prevention of Tax Evasion and Avoidance, submitted by the Government, 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on cooperation in the area of implementation of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government, 9. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the employment of family members living in a joint household with members of diplomatic and consular representations submitted by the Government, 10. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of the President of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, 11. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, 12. Proposal for a decision on the election of a president and a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, 13. Proposal for a decision on the election of members of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors and of the Order of the Faculty of Law, submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, 14. A Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Supreme Council of Judges, who submitted the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, 15. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, who submitted the High Council of the Judiciary, 16. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, who submitted the High Council of the Judiciary, 17. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac and the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, 18. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lebanon and the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and 19. Proposal for a decision to adopt the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, which was tabled by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary - Immunity Issues. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Marija Obradović, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Civil Engineering, Infrastructure, Nikola Selaković, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Saša Stevanović and Slavica Savičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Milan Rakić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Ivana Savicevic, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dr Dragan Demirović, Deputy Minister of Finance, Vera Vukicevic, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ana Vukicevic, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ana Tripović, Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance, Vladimir Cvetkovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ana Jović, Minister of Finance, Mr. Dejan Dabetic, senior adviser and group manager at the Ministry of Finance and Gordana Pocanin and Ivana Milinkovic, senior advisers at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. I welcome Minister Maria, welcome. She's going to represent the government today. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint search, as you know, from points 1 to 9, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you, as you know, that the total time for debate is five hours. I ask MPs' groups who have not already done this, to file reports immediately. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on agenda points from 1st to 9. Proposer representative, I assume, wants a word at the beginning, Minister Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1851	Thank you. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, honourable MPs and MPs, you are facing today a set of laws proposing changes in the field of labour relations and wages in the public sector and this: the draft law amending the law on the public sector wage system, the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and units of local self-government, the draft law amending the Law on Public Agency Employees and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government and the draft law amending the Law on State Servants. I would talk about these five laws in the next 10 minutes, and after that, with respect for my fellow members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Finance Minister Sinisha Mali and Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic, I will also talk about the following four laws, i.e. points 6 to 9. So I will talk first about the proposed amendments to the first four laws that are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The proposed amendments set a new deadline for the start of the implementation of the system, and hence specific laws governing salaries, salary fees and other receipts in all parts of the public sector. The imposed need was primarily caused by a complex epidemiological situation, i.e. the Covid 19 pandemic on the territory of the Republic of Serbia during this 2020 and which is unfortunately still ongoing. This led to additional burdens and limited capacity in the public sector. It has therefore made it difficult to implement the necessary measures and activities by all participants in the reform necessary to establish an effective mechanism for moving to a new public sector wage system in 2021. Full implementation of public sector pay regulations implies intensive co-operation of all participants in the wage reform in order to achieve the greatest consensus in its implementation. The complexity of the law implementation process, which implies a whole series of activities for state authorities, autonomous province bodies and units of local self-government, notably normative activities and analysis of the financial effects of implementation of the reform and its impact on the budget, as well as numerous activities for other public sector employers, and in the conditions of difficulty in functioning and reduced public sector capacities due to Kovid 19, all this conditioned the need to leave an appropriate period of time until the start of the law, in which uninterrupted communication on reform activities with all parts of the public sector will be possible. Given that it is really difficult to predict the duration of such an epidemiological situation, as well as the consequences that it can cause for the smooth functioning of the entire public sector, it was proposed to set the deadline for the application of those laws in January 2022. This time we point out that the priority and strategic definition of this government remains the full implementation of the new public sector wage system. I would like to stress that during this debate and the next day, of course, we would be aware of the broader context in which we propose to postpone the application of these laws. Therefore, in the previous period, good grounds were laid for reform in the Public Sector Payments System Act adopted in 2016, as well as after that, by adopting specific laws governing salaries, salary fees and other remuneration of employees in the bodies of the Autonomous Province and units of local self-government, public services employees, public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. However, the application of these laws requires the adoption of significant sublaws for their implementation, which must also be brought into the greatest consensus of all participants in the reform, as well as the preparation of the entire public sector for their implementation, which shows the complexity of the overall process. In order for this reform to really be carried out in the open process, with a dialogue with a number of participants in its implementation, with a sound and comprehensive view of all its effects on the functioning and efficiency of the public sector, we had to define ourselves for another delay in its launch until conditions for the smooth joint implementation of the reform activities of all its participants were obtained. What is very important and not only do you here in the hall need to hear, but in this I will potential in daily communication with the citizens of Serbia, because they should know that, regardless of the delay in public sector wage reforms, in this difficult situation, especially for health employees, yours was firstly provided and then our support as members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by adopting a budget that allowed us to raise wages in a situation where many countries in the world have frozen or reduced employees' salaries. Also today, you are facing a proposal to amend the Law on Civil Service Officers, which moves the deadline for state authorities to start applying the obligation to carry out a competition procedure for a certain period of time, due to an increased volume of work. We propose that as a new deadline for the start of the application of this provision, it is set on 1 January 2023 instead of 1 January 2021, so as to avoid firstly jeopardising the effectiveness of the work of the state authorities, especially under the circumstances caused by the Covid 19 virus epidemic. Now, state authorities, like other public sector employers, do not have the obligation to carry out a competitive procedure to work for a certain time, but the requirements and professionalisation of the administration have defined us in order to establish a stronger mechanism of control of staff's entry into the administration, as one of the guarantees of its efficiency. I would like to say that during today's debate, when we talk about postponing these laws, we should not only focus on criticising why it once again moves the deadline for the application of these laws, but rather on looking at the context, as I said, broader images, that you are thinking about a comprehensive reform of public administration in Serbia, that a new document of public administration reform is being prepared in Serbia, and in the light of this, the postponement of these laws should be seen. Of course, we are first conditioned in the pandemic Kovid 19, but we must also think about what processes are under way in Serbia, primarily about public administration reform, and that professionalisation is something we insist on and what will be our priority. Although it was initially left with a two-year delay for the application of this provision in the Law on civil servants due to the conditions of controlled employment arising from the rules on the budgetary system and regulations limiting the maximum number of public sector employees. In this period, no sufficient competitive procedures have been carried out to work on an indefinite period of time which are the prerequisite for the creation of records of persons who have passed the competition process and which could be included in the system of work for a certain period of time without a competition procedure. For this reason, it is necessary to set a new deadline, to move to a competitive type of employment for a certain period of time, in order not to jeopardise the effectiveness of the work of the authorities during the duration of these competition procedures. That deadline has also been introduced in relation to the deadline set out in the Budgetary System Act, which provides for a new type of employment control for the public sector until 2023. The suspension of the application of the Law on civil servants in this part will establish an adequate timeframe to enable the implementation of this form of establishing a working relationship for a certain period of time without prejudice to the smooth functioning of the state authorities. I am thanking the MPs in front of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and I hope that you will respect the reasons set out for the delay in the application of these laws from our jurisdiction, particularly in order to ensure that these system reforms are truly in favour of both states and employees who are the concrete holders of all public sector activities. Now I'd move on to the rest of the agenda. We are ahead of us with proposals for a law on the approval of the agreement, signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The first is the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by the Unicredited Bank for the financing of the Ruma, Sabac, Loznica, the construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway and the fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica, one of the priority projects of the Republic of Serbia in road transport, as it is a project that is important for the development and integration of about 600,000 people in the Macvanska and Sremski district, but also for Podrinje and western Serbia with Vojvodina, as well as for connecting Serbia's work with the region, in particular BiH. The commercial contract envisions an agreed value of up to 467m euros, as well as completion of project technical documentation and implementation of works. The execution of the works will also cover the construction of three shares. The first is Ruma-Shabac from the highway E-70 loops Ruma to the bridge via Sava in Šapac, length 21.14 km for a speed of 130 km/s, the second is the construction of a bridge over the Sava in Šapac length of 1.327.5 m, including on-road ramps and the third is the construction of a fast traffic station from Šapac to Loznica length 54.58 km for a speed of 100 km/s. Next on the agenda is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the elimination of double taxation in relation to taxes, income and property and the prevention of avoidance tax. The conclusion of the contract is a significant contribution to improving bilateral business and financial co-operation between Serbia and Hong Kong. This eliminates the problem of double taxation of both sides' natural and legal persons. The Treaty constitutes a legal framework and a precondition for investments by Honko investors in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. creating conditions for their participation in the privatisation process, as well as for the use of appropriate financial instruments to promote higher forms of bilateral economic co-operation. Today, it is also up to us to propose a bill confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of implementing priority projects in the Republic of Serbia. By signing an agreement between Serbia and France on co-operation in the area of implementing priority projects in Serbia, it concerns building a Belgrade subway and automating power distribution network management through the automation of a medium voltage distribution network in the Republic of Serbia. These projects are of capital importance to the Republic of Serbia. They will contribute to the sustainable improvement of the Serbian economy and facilitate the transfer of technology, as well as the professional development of qualified and unqualified labour in these areas. So these are, these three laws, are actually confirming agreements that allow us to implement large projects in different sectors. I am sure that we will also have a constructive discussion on this subject and I hope that you will also accept these proposals in the voting day. The latest law in this united point, the Law on the Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the employment of family members living in a joint household with members of diplomatic and consular representations. The employment of family members, members of diplomatic or consular representations in relations between the Republic of Serbia and Great Britain so far has not been legally regulated, although there is a mutual interest in regulating this issue by a memorandum on a reciprocal basis between the two countries, employment is regulated with the compensation of family members, members of diplomatic and consular representations, and this is in line with the country's internal rules seeking employment. A family member who deals with paid work, under this agreement, does not enjoy immunity from civil and administrative jurisdiction. In recent years, this has become a common, international legal practice where the purpose of these agreements is also to limit the number of persons' privileges, immunity when it comes to activities related to carrying out paid activities that would otherwise belong to them under the Vienna Conventions on diplomatic and consular relations. In modern conditions of life, this was also the reason for the signing of this type of memo, so it is increasingly a situation where spouses refuse to leave their jobs to follow abroad a married or out-of-marriage partner who is a member of a diplomatic or consular representative or a mission in international government organisations, which has just led many states, or their foreign ministries, to find a legal way to solve this problem of their employees. The main objective is to preserve normal family life, diplomatic or consular representatives and to keep the family together while meeting the professional and economic preconditions for the functioning of these families. I would also add, no less, that the effects of the work of diplomatic or consular representatives in the case of separated families are undoubtedly less than the effects of the work of those diplomatic or consular representatives working in the environment of their families when they are with him in the state of service. The implementation of this law does not require the allocation of financial resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Dear colleagues, MPs, MPs, the chairman, I think this is how one concise presentation was given in view of the nine points united in this one principle debate. Of course I'm available with my associates to provide further information. In addition to laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, today discussions are attended by co-workers from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that you will not be denied the necessary information although the competent ministers are not personally present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1852	I thank you, Mrs. Obradovic, for such concrete explanations of the proposed laws that are on the agenda today. Do the officials of the committees want a word? National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1853	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs Obradovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, attended by Minister Obradovic and all co-workers and representatives of other ministries, we have found that the proposals are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and today we will have opportunities to discuss these proposals in plenary. It is good that on the agenda we have draft laws from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as it can also remind us of the government's attitude towards the public sector and the state administration before and after arriving at the SNS authorities. If we just take into account the battle with the coronary virus and the fact that the money from the budget is going to that fight every day, it's a big deal that we can talk about raising wages in the public sector, primarily in health care. From January 1st, it will be 5% for healthcare professionals, and for all others, an increase of 3.5% and 1.5% since April of next year. I'd also say that during this year, we've increased the salary of health workers by about 10%, which is due to regular increases, which is because of their constant struggle to preserve human lives, and here is the crown of the virus. In addition, pensions have been increased several times. Also, pensioners were given one-time help from the state. This, of course, would not be possible if funding from the budget were not available in one host way and systematically using appropriate measures. There is a big difference when you have a stable and secure budget and you have fear and uncertainty about whether there will be a salary at all, as was the case by 2012, when, for example, wages are increased exclusively for pre-election purposes, without any real basis. Of course, it wasn't a good relationship to the state administration or the state administration system, which, of course, should be the service of all citizens to the greatest extent. Today the situation is different. I believe that you too, Mrs Obradovic, will set the principles of further reforms and good relations with the state administration and with all public administration employees, which is of great importance, after all, in the functioning of many cities and municipalities in Serbia. We see that it is important and professional support for all programmes and training and the National Academy of Public Administration. Therefore, you will always have the support of the MPs of this Parliament, as well as your ministry's proposals for voting day, so I would use, in the end, to invite my colleagues and colleagues to support these proposals to allow for continued activities and procedures in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1854	Thank you, colleague. The word has the chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1855	Thank you, Chairman. I answered, this is a set of laws that we will definitely support, by having to point to a few very important things about civil servants, people who choose to compete. We have here as a state one serious problem, a growing problem. On the one hand, it's positive, and one can be negative. In fact, what is an economic part of the government and in the earlier period has now succeeded, and that is that we have begun to develop the private sector. There I must truly give great recognition to both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance and all those initiatives that Mr. Vukic had given, above all as Prime Minister, and now the president of the state. We started to think soundly, i.e. to think capitalist, in my opinion, which is much smarter and not to run our children when they graduate from colleges immediately to state firms. By developing this private sector, we have come to the conclusion that a huge number of people go to private companies. What's crucial is the difference between the current government and the previous one, which is characterized by the gentlemen who now resent us all alive, is that they have destroyed the private sector. People from the private sector fled to state firms and this proved to be a disastrous concept. We completely destroyed the economy and any private initiative. Now it's the other way around. Now people in the state sector are going to go private, which is good, which is common sense, but, on the other hand, in state firms, it's a serious problem, because you can't keep, say, a highly qualified and excellent manager, some IT expert, etc. You just can't give him that kind of pay, it's just impossible to give him as much pay as he can with a private man. That's why it's so often that in competitions, especially for directors of state and public enterprises, we have a situation where people who are objectively not expert in such a thing, and you can't compete to choose, but you always have responsibilities. It's a big problem to face, but what to do. I hope we can get through this in some way. For example, I happen to know about a city secretary, people offered an ad, 15 of them for a permanent working relationship, and it's about architects, about lawyers. No one answered the ad. It wasn't to be accepted on a certain basis, but for a permanent working relationship and no one answered, because it's a small salary. You can make a lot more money. Now, let's say, look at this particular segment and you can see how far the country really has progressed. For example, architects at the time of the former city government, while Mr. Gilas led, had nothing to do. Nothing was built, nothing was projected. Today, architects, especially in Belgrade, not to talk about all Serbia, do not have a day off, people have designs every day. They don't even pay to work for some state-owned companies, because as private or in their own companies they can make a lot more money, they have a serious flow of money. So we need to see how that problem can be solved. Let's just say, in situations like that. At the Military Technical Institute, these IT-Evcs go to a company that is world-famous, take such a fit that is very, very successful and it has a much higher salary than it can be, for example. at the Military Technical Institute to earn money, so we really need to see how we're going to get through it. These are serious problems that we will face in the future. Again, on the other hand, it is positive that we are developing the economy and that the economy has really bounced a lot, which shows that we are economic as a country and how we progressed. There's one more thing I need to ask you. When we talk about civil servants, I think we should introduce a stricter and far more serious security check that gets us all into state-owned enterprises, into state-owned companies, in the public sector at all. It's not often that different organizations suddenly have their own people somewhere who out of pure peace obstruct the work of the state, and that's a serious problem. I think we're going to have to introduce some more rigid control who gets and how to hire. Anyone who comes especially into an organ that's pretty securely sensitive would have to go through a serious security check. We had situations, for example, even in the police once before, we had no security clearance to hire anyone. So, in that segment, I'd ask for a lot of work to be done here. I have to point out something, because we're here to talk about both justice and everything. I see there's been an initiative by the NGO to amend the Criminal Code. If you'll excuse me, it's about insulting family members. Of course, you should see the initiative, what can be done. I absolutely agree with it as soon as possible on the agenda. What we had the opportunity to see yesterday and what we were able to read, in which way the closest members of the president's family are horrifyingly insulted, I'm talking about the mother first of all, each of us is sensitive to the mother, first of all to the mother, and when your mother calls it the most ugly name, if it can be called at all, I really don't know what to call it, something like that only inhumans can think of, immoral monsters, idiots, I don't know how else to use and what expression, I really think that these should be sanctioned, with a specially qualified part if children are offended. Because the kids couldn't choose whose they were going to be and the kids didn't do anything. Even if their parents have some conflict that anyone, children are nothing to blame. The family is attacked only by unholy people, immoral people, people who are frustrated, who have no morals in them and who show their inferiority and infirmity. In order to prevent such villains from doing so, this crime must be instituted somewhere to protect their families. It is not the duty of an honest woman, such as Angelina Vukic, to suffer such terrifying insults through social networks, neither his father, nor his brother, in particular, to suffer such monstrous insults by some frustrated people, who obviously do not know how otherwise to fight us politically. I've experienced a lot of things personally through these social networks. I've been lived to be told that my children are bastards, that I'm a buffalo, that I'm a thief, that I don't know what, that my wife is a prostitute, etc. All of this must as a public figure as a stoic to endure, we are obliged to endure it all, but, you know, there is once something that has really exceeded the gift of the measure, and here, above all, to introduce this criminal act to protect the family, because the attack on the family is a serious attack on society itself, and that no one else can think of, not just the families of us who are now some authority, but also for those in opposition. Please, our officials, our members, our MPs, never attack anyone's family, because that shows how immoral and dishonest you are. Always get ready to go to the duel, be ready to talk, but never touch the family. Please put this on the agenda as soon as possible, to consider this initiative, I am a big supporter of the introduction of this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1856	Thanks, buddy. Just one explanation for the other colleagues. I didn't mean to interrupt your thought, but the time you've exceeded will be calculated at the time of your parliamentary group. Before we move on to authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, one notice. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the JS parliamentary group, Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1857	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the JS parliamentary group will, of course, support all nine points of the agenda that we are discussing today, because we consider these amendments to the laws relating to civil servants and the system of salaries of civil servants and employees in the public sector, in agencies etc., very important, but of course, to confirm agreements that are on the agenda today, too, we find extremely important. We're talking about today's draft law amending the Civil Service Act... (President: Excuse me, colleague, you'll have to re-apply, you haven't heard from me. Thank you. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments System of Public Sector Employees and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Officials and Deputys in the Authorities of the AP and the Units of Local Self-Government and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments of Employees in Public Agencyes and Other Organisations. These five points and these five laws that we're talking about today, when we're adopted, are basic intensities, and that's where I agree with you, Minister, is that passing a team of laws wants to professionalise public administration, the state administration and these five laws treated that matter in a valid way. What we could not know, meanwhile, happened on one side of the pandemic of the coronary virus, which has brought the whole situation into line and led to the fact that many of the activities of the state administration, the public sector in general, took place under difficult circumstances, under difficult conditions and therefore it was necessary to postpone these deadlines that were due to take place from 1 January 2022. It was not the only reason, of course, when we talk about the Bill on Amendments to the Law on State Employees, you said there was a fine delay for two more years, for the simple reason that in the previous two years, there was very little competition for civil servants for a certain time in the conditions of controlled employment, so that the records that the state services are obliged to run in the implementation of this competition and some list of people who met all the conditions of the competition and who during the competitive procedure which is not simple, on the contrary, quite complex and lasting, met not only those formal conditions for the work in the state services, but they satisfied the competences sought. It's very important because we have to have civil servants who have valid competences to do their job in the best way. I read somewhere that in so far-published competitions, in one executive post, the competition procedure passed, approximately one and a half faces. This is certainly not a sufficient number to form a valid record of persons who are qualified and meet both formal criteria, so their competences are to work on certain jobs in the state administration during the period when the state administration has an increased volume of work and needs for new perpetrators. So, we agree that this period of making records and the whole procedure is changed, that there will be a legal solution that says "in the previous two" changes "in the previous four years" and that the implementation of this part of the law, that it starts on 1 January 2023. Also, the system of salaries in the state administration and in the public sector is also important for the professionalisation of state administration employees in the public sector. In view of the fact that the implementation of this wage system involves a number of sublegal acts, a number of actions by various parts of the state administration that are in this united system due to these difficult circumstances of the Coronus virus, etc. could not be done in time and we also support that this system is implemented, i.e. to extend the implementation deadline by one year. What I would particularly like to stress here, too, is the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia regarding the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica Project. Namely, it is one of the very important projects that has been done these years in the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the development of infrastructure is an important item in the politics of the Serbian state, and that this project will contribute to the further economic development of the state of Serbia, not only of the region, Western Serbia, not only of the Sword and Pocerina, but also of Serbia as a whole, because this traffic connects Serbia and BiH and the Republic of Serbia and thus will enable increased trade co-operation and trade between neighbouring countries. Also, the project will increase the investment capacity of the region of western Serbia, the region of Machva and Pocerina, because, simply, investors first ask when they come and want to know what the conditions for investing in an area, in a region, in a city, are whether there is a good traffic connection, whether there is an highway, whether there is a railway, etc. You said that this project connects 600,000 of our citizens to the central parts of Serbia, and that is also very important, because it will facilitate the necessary communication between the citizens of Machva and Pocerina with the rest of Serbia, but what is also important is that every time, even this time, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, it is part of that traffic flow of the Republic of Serbia that has to function uninterrupted, because only this way will the state of Serbia as an organism that has such good blood flow be able to function healthy and to develop well economically. As for confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, we can say that this is also a very good agreement. Namely, it involves building Belgrade Metro and automating power grid management. The first Belgrade Metro project, the first phase, is worth 454m euros, the second part of this agreement – the automation of power grid management is 127m euros. We believe that both projects are of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. When I say -- the Belgrade Metro, it doesn't just mean Belgrade. Of course, mostly Belgrade, but also the state of Serbia. Why? Any country that holds onto itself, which wants to be respected, in both economic, political and other terms, shows, among other things, that the metropolis of that state has a metro. Of course, having a subway also means discharging Belgrade traffic. It draws cleaner air with it, because less will be used by cars. What is most important to the citizens of Belgrade and the surrounding settlements – the time of the journey from home to work will be shortened. We talked about this project decades ago, but this is a project whose realization will start and end within a short time frame. As regards the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hong Kong as a special unit within the People's Republic of China, we can say that this Agreement on the Elimination of Double Taxation is important, for the simple reason that it treats double taxation of income and property taxes and, of course, the prevention of tax evasion, i.e. the prevention of non-payment or avoidance of the obligation to pay taxes. This agreement, of course, improves bilateral and financial co-operation between Serbia and that part of our friendly state of China. What is also important, this agreement increases competitiveness, both Serbian companies in Hong Kong and their businesses in our country, as double taxation is avoided. Once again I will say and repeat, the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support all nine points of this agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1858	Thank you, colleague Starčević. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1859	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, other representatives of the government, respected MPs, the topic ahead of us has several key concepts - laws, states, services and salaries. I find it very important to understand these terms, not only because they are the backbone of our theme today, but also because of everything we do in our mandates here in the National Assembly, we adopt laws, we try to make them good, to be efficient and to be meaningful. In order for one law to be good, besides what is most often in our focus, which is the legal and language form of that law, we rarely miss those other dimensions of quality that every law should have. So, in addition to the form, which is very important and for which I can say, according to my four-year experience in the past term in this home, they are therefore adopted at a very high and linguistic and legal level. But what I want to point out is the quality of the essence of every law. Certainly, in this aspect of the law, they have intensities, and that means we, who represent legislators, are certain quality of content itself, but do we always ask ourselves enough and we all ask ourselves what the essential quality of each law is? The essential quality of each law depends on the degree of fairness of that law. More specifically, it depends on the ethical dimension of the quality of that law. We are, in principle, aware of all of this and mostly very often inertly and mechanically moving in that direction, but the question is whether we always manage to give enough attention to every law in that sense. Of course, it is difficult to reach agreement on what is and how righteous, just, what is the measure of justice. We certainly have a lot of theories about this through the history of politics and the state, but what is indisputable and even think, knowing the structure of the National Assembly so that we can achieve a very high degree of complexity about the ethical value of what through our long tradition is undeniably proven as a sublime value, even regardless of which ethnic community, or faith, and especially political party we belong to. I think that there is a very small number of MPs who would disagree with this, and especially what in this confessional sense is here in this country, and also in the wider Balkans, we have very much relatedness, which I have talked about before, because our faiths are formally religious, by definition, different, but essentially they are monotheistic, and that actually means that there are no partial deities. There's a God. There is no Christian God, Muslim God, especially no Serbian or Bosniak, Croatian, Montenegrin or Albanian. God is one. God is one. There are different perceptions, there are different approaches, but if we agree on that, and I believe there's no reason to agree, so is ethos one. Our ethical system, our ethical system of evaluation, is one, because it actually stems from this previous belief of God’s unity. If we have that, and we have it in a deep traditional, cultural sense, among other things, that's why we are both here in Serbia and in the Sandzak area, but also in the Balkans space, in fact, one cultural space. Even very many problems, accumulated, historical, political ones that often led to the escalation of conflicts, wars, crimes, etc. If we were able to raise awareness with the political elites in this space that we are a unique cultural space, we would eliminate many of these problems. Much more, we would find even more points to agree on and agree on than those points that we differ on or, God forbid, that we would conflict over. In fact, I'm drawing attention, and I know that neither the National Assembly nor the public through the media are used to going this far on the importance of the law, so on the issue of our own approach as legislators, but I think it's time and we have such a corner and we try to get deeper into the analysis of the quality of the legislative proposals, even though they are once, like these laws now, where they are being amended and complemented, where we have very often these so-called. Procedural interventions, therefore, they are imposed. They're so forced that we need to, just to say, form. Al, even then we must not forget that the essential quality is the key, and that it is actually what is ethical, what is human, and that actually means never forget when the law is passed what is humanity. What's the risk of modern civilization, which, unfortunately, we're kind of slowly skating, not of civilization, but of risk? The over-emphasised biology of culture, on the one hand, in the highly developed countries of Western civilization, has already become dominant in itself, but we too, too, which are geo-culturally belonging to Western civilization, although poor or to some extent poor, because of this poverty, we now, looking at this materialistic glow, too strong or too, therefore, very carelessly accept this biological concept of culture. You will see it primarily and in our here discourse politically, either in the Assembly or outside the Assembly, in a way that we have actually reduced everything to that – let's fill our stomachs, let's earn, let's go and it'll be all right. Yeah, that's very important. It's usually the meaning of money, or any material goods. It's important as long as he's not here. So we all know with experience what it looks like. While you don't have the money, he's too big for you or especially for you to have as much as you think he is. And after that, of course, there's a difference between consciousness, whether you guys know you're a master of money or money is a master of you, it's a whole other topic, but in any case, it's a key question, that we can't let what's the essence of man, ontological essence of man, what's an anthropological man or what, we don't have to formulate it too scientifically, go down to school, to lessons that our parents and our grandfather taught us. Today you have various qualifications, various uniforms, various distributions on various grounds. Let's get back to our real tradition. You will find in our fathers, grandfathers who had far less schools than we did, but there were no other divisions with them except for the division of man and man. They were the only divisions that were legal and legitimate. Actually, that concept needs us to go back. Yes, academia is important, but to the extent that it will enlighten us, but not to the extent that we will be confused by confusion. We today have quasi academicism very present, which actually has ambition, and in practice very often has various themes burdened with fog, certain fog, reducing visibility with various foreign concepts, philosophical expressions, to confuse us, and then it seems to be some smart category, according to that model – it's so smart that I don't understand it. That's not the kind of approach we need. We have to go through education and through the media, but also through political discourse, try more significantly to bring man back to the center of events, but not what, to say, renaissance and humanist, again then rather demagogue, but really human, essentially, what is human. What do you need, man? Yes, you should have the honor of eating, the honor of living. You have your biological needs, but they're not the only ones. You can't stop at that. That's why we have a wasteland around us. You don't know who's happier, the ones they don't have, dreaming about having, or the ones they have, they don't know what they're going to do with what they have, and then what they have to use to destroy and exploit, they humiliate the one around them, looking for some chance to raise adrenaline. We have two extremes that, as we can see, cause enormous damage to us and to all that is around us. Of course, we cannot here as legislators this issue, this crisis and this topic are absorbed, and we cannot turn the ship in a positive direction, but what is certain is that we can do so through political discourse, but also, by means of the formulation of the law, make a very significant contribution, and in particular draw attention to the importance of this issue. So, in addition to formal and essential values and quality, we have certainly applied. True, it's more talked about, but very often we know that we have a gap and in application, perhaps not in these laws, because when it comes to pay laws, it's hard not to apply, because those to whom it belongs will not allow you not to apply. But, of course, it's a segment surrounding the quality of a law. Therefore, only when we have formal quality, essential, ethical quality of the law, do we have the application of one law, can we only then say that we have quality and good laws and only then and only such laws will be meaningful, or what is really their goal and what are intended for. Another important concept regarding our topic today is the state. It's one of the concepts that's so much in use and it's kind of understood that it's completely clear to us, and I'm not even sure that it's always clear to us politicians. So in our language, it's the term derived from verbs to hold. Now to ask us what the state is holding, I'm not sure we'd be able to give a precise answer, what the meaning of this concept is in a deep etemological or linguistic sense, but believe it has a very strong connection. It's similar with other foreign expressions, from the Latin statue to the English state, which means some kind of establishment, to the Arabic deule or deulet, which means circle. So whether there's something rounded up, whether there's something in place, whether it's a state, is actually a state or a holding, but what? What's the hold-up? What's the state holding? The state keeps order. The point and role of the state is to establish a state and maintain order. That's the point of the country. We're going back to the same topic. The order is only held if the bearers of responsibility are in that system, if they are defined both by belief and by practice and by their own consciousness, justice and justice, means, the order can only be held if we are determined that this order, or the system of that order, is just and fair. Of course there are, let me say, two theories in the present centuries of experience when it comes to states, that is, there is some dilemma in theorists, especially in politicians, through various experiences, is it a more important state or nation? There are very many theories and very many arguments, on the one hand and on the other. Of course, it's not taboo and we should have it here. The experience has shown that those systems that have skated more totalitarianity preferred the importance of the state compared to the people, the nation, or the man, which is actually, in my opinion, very wrong, because the state is important, but it is methodically important, it is a means, it is not a goal to itself. It is like an important house, the house is important, home is home, but the importance of the house is, as well as the importance of the state, as important and important and useful and quality as it serves the goal, and the goal is not the house itself, the goal is not the state itself, the goal is not the system itself, but the goal is the home, the goal is the citizens, the goal is the people. The quality of a country cannot be measured by how much it serves itself, how much it has brought itself into line. There's our best example of ultra-totalitarian regimes that actually declared the state sacred and just, fighting for this quasi sacred, so to speak, because it's a quasi deity. Holy can't be what people pronounce, holy is what's sacred in God's line. That's why we had millions and millions of people killed who lost their heads, whose lives were taken because someone thought they were a threat to the state, and even worse that was happening in that practice, not only then and somewhere, but also here and here, that many of them were hiding behind the state, so when you criticized someone in that country, it happened to me, because I had violent conflicts with previous governments, and whenever they said something was wrong, then they would answer us - you're an enemy of the state and they'd organize the hickeys today really, as if we were enemies of the state, sending special units, the gendarmes, etc., because I said that Boris Tadic was doing wrong or Kostunica or some of his clerk, Minister, etc. So these are things that are in our fresh memory. So if we really want to have a well-being environment, that means we need to have a country as a house, yes, it is important, but not more important than the household. When we have a good house, no matter how many housewives there are, we can have a healthy and good environment, because the people in the house need to know that the condition would be right, they have to respect the order of the house order, and these are the laws. Of course, that house must play its part and be meaningful, which means that it must protect its householders, protect its citizens. They must have equal chances, both religiously and socially, and politically, and on any other basis. It is, in fact, the basis on which the state requires a commitment from its citizen, it asks citizens to be loyal to them, but not unconditionally, but the basis on which the state has the right to the public is a national's obligation to the state it has to its citizen. So it's based on a social contract between citizens and the system. At the end of the ministry, officials are a category of exceptional importance. The past has proven to be at great risk where the service of the state or so on. The bureaucracy of the state has the ambition to declare itself an elite. When real elites, intellectual elites, and spiritual elites are abolished, then dictatorships arise, again for reasons or in the same theory of understanding that the state is its goal. When that's the case, the only elite is the bureaucratic elite. This must not be allowed, and of course we must treat it, because we have remains from earlier times. In this respect, the value, i.e. the salary, is of paramount importance. Each society is measured, i.e. the basis of the prosperity of a society, is values. If you provide through laws and through practice to value quality professional, commitment and all that is defined as quality, let's say, for officials, you will have progress. So, according to the valorisation of quality, you have a degree of development, you provide the right valorisation of quality, of course, and sanctions for non-quality, you will have progress. On the other hand, humanity, of course, measures one community against the weaker ones, which is another topic, but exactly the relationship in terms of payments would have to go out in that direction. If we succeed, then we will avoid what our colleagues have already said – that our architects are running away, that our experts are running away, we will already have adequate valorisation and rewarding. These are the foundations that are important for this topic, but also for all other topics when it comes to our legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1860	Thanks, buddy. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1861	We are today discussing, among other things, the draft laws amending five very important laws that should introduce order in the wages and self-organization of work in the state and public sector. I would actually focus my discussion today on these topics. There has been a lot of talk about payment system reform so far, and there have been some changes in the way of editing through coefficients that represent the value of jobs carried out in the same calling, but so many times mentioned pay classes in the public administration will not be regulated by these changes today, because it is exclusively about the extension of deadlines. The reason is really very strong. Due to the complexity of the situation in the country due to the pandemic that has led to the difficult functioning of the entire country, it was almost unrealistic to expect all concrete activities to be implemented to move to a new wage system in 2021. How nearly impossible it was to talk about public sector reforms during the general pandemic crisis, it says that the draft laws were conducted from 12 November to 1 December 2020. The programme was published on the website of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government with a call for all interested citizens and professionals to submit their proposals and suggestions. No proposals, suggestions, initiatives were submitted during the public debate, except for comments delivered by the tax administration's union organisation. For these reasons, the draft Law amending the laws on the agenda will not lead to substantial changes, but to an extension of deadlines until 1 January 2022. Although we do not have concrete draft amendments to the law in front of us at today's session, which would regulate working-law status, salaries and other remuneration of public service employees, I would certainly talk today about the importance of introducing payment classes and what actually payment classes mean. In short, this would mean that the base should be taken for a minimum monthly profit that is multiplied by the coefficient for each job. The average salary in public enterprises in the first quarter of this year was 72,383 dinars, in the public sector 66,936 dinars, while the salaries of employees in municipalities are quite different, which would mean – the more developed the municipality, the higher the salaries. Only a few local self-governments publish pay data, although publication of these data is a duty to the Labour Informationor. As it goes further than Belgrade, municipality employees' salaries are becoming less and less. The position of the SDPS is that the system of earnings and employees in the public sector must not be chaotic because such an important system, which is arranged, represents the basic pillar of the functional state. The reform of earnings and employment is also a major professional but political challenge. However, it is certainly necessary because the fund is the second largest public expenditure. The sustainability of public finances, economic growth, functioning of the labour market, as well as the quality of public services depends on the state sector's governance. The reform of the pay grade system is imagined on good principles. What needs to be taken into account is that there is no greater deformity of these principles due to the demands of different major trade unions when determining the profit coefficient, as well as due to a narrower range from the lowest to the highest earnings, which is why the unfair profit system in the state sector is still being talked about. According to research, profits in the public sector are about 20% higher on average than in private. What is certainly coming to the state now is a challenge for how to care for the private sector and how to help small and medium-sized enterprises survive and also prevent the dismissal of more workers. The important role of the government is certainly to find a Solomonic solution that will bring together knowledge, skills and quality to the satisfaction of all parties. I don't think all these good results are allowed to drag us in so far, but to help us to and how we realize that the year ahead is a year of challenge and wise decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1862	Thank you, colleague. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1863	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, when we talk about the proposed laws on the agenda today, I would first of all like to refer to the draft law amending the Law on Civil Servants. Article 1 The bill extends the period within which state authorities can establish candidate records to establish a working relationship for a certain period due to an increase in the volume of work from two to four years. This change is conditioned that due to the restrictions on employment, insufficient competitive procedures have not been implemented to establish a record of persons who could be admitted to a working relationship for a certain period of time without carrying out an additional competition procedure. It also contributed to the long duration of competition procedures in the circumstances caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, which is absolutely understandable. As regards Article 2. The draft law postpones the application of provisions relating to the obligation to conduct a public competition for entry into service for a certain period of time due to a temporary increase in the volume of work. The proposed amendment sets out as the beginning of the mandatory implementation of the competition procedure for a given time due to the increased volume of business on 1 January 2023, which is in line with the new type of employment control foreseen by the Budgetary System Act until 2023. So far, as you know, every new employee had to be granted approval from the government commission, and from 2021 until 2023, all institutions, institutions and businesses will be able to decide their own needs and the money they have. The only limit is that they cannot employ more than 70% of new workers from the number of employees who left those institutions, institutions and businesses last year, while in case they need to employ more employees than planned they will still have to ask for the approval of the government's commission. As regards the draft law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System of Employees, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Employees, the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Employees and Deputys in the Authorities of the AP, the Unit of Local Self-Government and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salaries of Public Agency Employees and other Organisations set up by the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province or the Local Self-Government Units, the amendments relate to the setting of a new deadline for the start of the implementation of the system, namely, and the specific laws governing salaries, fees and other receipts in all parts of the public sector. The above-mentioned need was conditioned primarily by the complex situation caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus during 2020, which led to a difficult functioning of the public sector, thus making it impossible to carry out the necessary activities to move on to a new wage system in 2021. It is precisely the complexity of the process of implementing these laws in a pandemic-induced situation that has led to a legitimate need to leave an appropriate period of time for uninterrupted communication with all parts of the public sector until the entry into force of these laws. When we talk about public administration, I must also point out that we have set up a National Public Administration Academy, which began working in January 2018 with the intention of improving the work of civil servants, in order to further improve the quality of services provided by citizens and businesses. I must also remind myself that after successfully implemented economic reforms, we have continuously increased public sector wages from 2016 until today, without jeopardising the fiscal stability achieved. I'll remind you that in 2016, wages rose from 2% to 4%. In 2017, 3% to 6% were increased. In 2018, increased 5 to 10%. In 2019, we increased 7% to 12%, while for 2020 we provided an increase in profits ranging from 8% to 15%. Also, despite the pandemic that affected the whole world and negatively affected every country's economy, we have increased 10% of the salaries to health workers since 1 April of this year, and since next year we are moving with new increases to healthcare workers of 5%, while for other public sector employees we have provided a 3.5% increase and an additional 1.5% since April 2021. Speaking of public administration, I must remind the citizens of Serbia that only by coming to power has Alexander Vukic and the SNS begun its reform. In previous years, major progress has been made in this area, one of the three key areas for Serbia's EU accession. That these are not only empty words shows last year's Sigma report, the European Commission's common body and economic co-operation and development organisation, which confirmed that Serbia has progressed to five out of seven indicators compared to 2017 when it comes to providing services to citizens. The report states that Serbia is a regional leader in this area with great ambition to compete with the best in the world, which you will admit is an incredible success. Also, according to a report by the US International Development Agency, which included a thousand small and medium-sized enterprises, as many as 72% of businesses operating in Serbia have confirmed that transparency and predictability of business have increased in the previous period. That a huge shift has been made shows a public opinion survey conducted under the Swiss programme Svespro, which has shown that every other citizen in central Serbia believes that local self-government takes care of citizens, or about 45% of respondents, compared to the 2010 survey, when the percentage was only 22%. These are the very reports of prominent international institutions that show that we have done a great job and that we have the capacity to be shoulder to shoulder with the best in the world. On the other hand, for Dragan Gilas and his partners, public administration has always been only a way to foster their party colleagues, friends, acquaintances, relatives, etc. That these aren't just empty stories also shows an example of the Old Town municipality, which of these elections was the water of Gilasov's assaulter Marko Bastac and who, in the municipality and municipal public enterprises, hired members of his family, godfathers, friends, relatives, etc., which is why citizens will never vote for them again. As regards the proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom on the employment of family members living in a joint household with members of diplomatic or consular representations, I note that in recent years it has become a practice to conclude bilateral agreements and memoranda that regulate the employment of family members of staff in diplomatic and consular representations. This practice was introduced since spouses could not be professionally accomplished in the country of reception, so they often refused to leave their jobs to follow abroad a married or out-of-marriage partner. This fact has led many countries to find a legal way to address this problem and to ensure a normal family life for diplomatic and consular representatives, with the satisfaction of professional and economic preconditions for the functioning of these families. This document is exactly what makes it possible, which is another sign of understanding between our two states. It also shows the commitment of both sides to further improve our relations wherever possible. As regards the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Hong Kong, the special administrative region of the People's Republic of China, on the elimination of double taxation in relation to income taxes and property and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, I would like to point out that it will further improve our economic relations. The conclusion of this contract is precisely an important contribution to improving bilateral, economic and financial co-operation, as it eliminates the problem of double taxation of natural and legal persons. It also provides a legal precondition for the more efficient business of our companies in Hong Kong, their enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, which will lead to further improvement of our co-operation. The contract is also a prerequisite for future investment by Hong Kong investors in our country's economy, which is also very important. Speaking of Hong Kong, I must remind the citizens of Serbia that so far, Hong Kong has been known only to us by close business partner Vuk Jeremic, Patrick Hou, who was one of the most respected speakers in his CIRSD's stands, who, I will remind you, was sentenced to court in New York in the context of a major international corruption affair, in which one of the roles played by Vuk Jeremic himself. I will also remind you that from September 2013 until the end of January 2017, the accounts of his Entrepreneurship Agency for Consulating and NGOs CIRDS from foreign sources have been paid $7.5 million and only from Patrick Ho and his Hong Kong CFC have received $1.3 million. As for the draft law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of implementation of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia, it relates to two projects – building a Belgrade subway and automating a medium-voltage distribution network. These projects are of capital importance for the development of the Republic of Serbia, which will contribute to further improving Serbia's economy and modernising the power grid. Also, the 581m-euro agreement, most of which refers to subway construction, further promotes economic co-operation and economic development. It confirms France's interest to support strategic projects in the Republic of Serbia and to engage its financial resources, which is an excellent indicator that Serbia today is a well-organised country worth investing in. Also, the improvement of the electricity network and the construction of the subway will further drive our entire economy and allow us to be a leader in Europe for the growth of GDP in the coming years. I will also remind you that the idea of building a metro in Belgrade is decades old and this decades-old dream of Belgrade is now ahead of its realization, and Belgrade will be able to mate with all European capitals. Its construction will also contribute to better transport of people, as well as reducing traffic jams and air pollution in our capital. It also represents an important step towards further development and modernisation of Belgrade and the whole of Serbia, which will further improve the standard of our citizens and make life easier for millions of people. The construction of the subway also shows the strength of a city and state, which was not the case until 2012. I will also remind you that building the metro is part of the "Serbia 2025", which was presented in December of last year by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, who is worth 14 billion euros. Part of the plan is also investment in the construction of a water and sewerage network, investment in health, education and digitisation, investment in building cheap apartments for young couples and much more. I will take the opportunity to remind you that the worst mayor in Belgrade's history, Dragan Gilas, first promised Belgrade the construction of a subway in December 2008. He did not stop at that, so he continued to promise his construction until 2013 which, of course, never began to build. I'll remind you that he was unable to prepare any planning documentation, as well as a project to build a subway. Instead, he left only a promise to the people of Belgrade to build a 1.2 billion-euro subway, and to the city's public enterprises ahead of the collapse. Unlike him, we keep our promises and, as we build Belgrade on water, so we will build a Belgrade subway. Finally, I would like to point out that the construction of the Ruma-Sabac highway and the fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica is one of the priority projects of the Republic of Serbia in road traffic, given that it is a project that is important to connect about 600,000 people in the Mačvanska and Sremski district, as well as that part of Serbia with the region, in particular with BiH. Its construction will also create a link between Corridor 10 and its 10b arm with Corridor 4 through first-row state roads, which is also very important. As far as the works are concerned, they cover the construction of three shares – part one – the construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway, part two – of the bridge across the Sava River in Šapac and part three – of the fast traffic from Šapac to Loznica. Since 19 June 2020, the works have been carried out on stock two – bridge across the Sava River, while for the section one, the highway Ruma-Shabac, and section three – fast traffic Shabac-Loznica in the course of the construction of technical documentation. I will also take the opportunity to remind Serbian citizens that during the course of the construction of the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway, the Preljina-Požega section, the construction of the Moravski Corridor, which will link two of the most important routes in the country of Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, as well as building the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. We are going to build a fast traffic station in Iverak-Lajkovac, build a Frushkogorje corridor, build a Niš-Medara highway, share of Nis-Pločnik and much more. I must point out here that just now efficient and reliable transport will allow Serbia to better connect with the region, Europe and the world and that further investment in transport infrastructure will have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of our country and lead to job creation and increased wages and pensions, which is crucial for all of our citizens. Speaking of transportation, I must welcome this opportunity to begin the construction of an intermodal terminal in Batajnica, where the cargo of goods will be carried out from truck to train, which is financed from EU grants. Last year, the headquarters of the Permanent Secretariat of the Transport Community opened in Belgrade, showing that Serbia is recognised as the leader of the region and that the EU has huge confidence in the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Just investing in traffic infrastructure is another indicator of the commitment of President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to European integration and membership of Serbia into the EU, which is one of our strategic goals. I also need to remind the citizens that from World War II until 2000, 374km of highways were built in Serbia. During the period of government of Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, i.e. from 2000 to 2012 only 63 kilometers of highway, and from coming to the power of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, i.e. from 2012 to 2020 350 kilometers of highways. I will also remind you that we have completed the road section of Corridor 10, built the highway from Belgrade to Cačka, that we are completing a bypass around Belgrade and that we have started building new 250km of highways and fast roads. That's why it's funny when criticism comes from Dragan Gilas and his associates because in their time, Serbia was a black hole, which everyone was walking around because of the construction of the roads. There are 350km of highways and 250km of new roads left behind, and only debts and unfinished projects are behind them. As a result, support for Alexander Vukic and SNS is increasing and higher every day, as previous elections have shown, while support for Dragan Gilas and his associates at the level of a statistical error and no lies by Dragan Gilas and his juries can change that. At the very end, because of all of the above-mentioned Parliamentary Group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, the proposed laws will be supported in the voting day, and I will take the opportunity to invite other colleagues to do the same, because their adoption will continue with the further development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1864	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word? He wants to talk in this part of the session. I see there's a president of the parliamentary groups who went into the O.R., so if you'd like to sign into the electronics system. I see in front of Mr Milicevic's SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1865	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Mrs. Obradovic, honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Although amendments and additions to the law are, in fact, the amendments and additions that extend the deadlines for applying the provisions of the roof law which treat salaries in certain parts of the public sector. Let me first of all put the accent on something the SPS Parliament Club thinks is very important, and that is public administration reform. Public administration reform as a general social goal, public administration reform through which we will create and continue to create both economically stronger Serbia and a more orderly state, as well as a more socially fair state. Of course, an important part of this reform is the pay system that should be able to reform itself in order to obtain a single payment model that provides a fairer evaluation of work from the aspect and education and quality and efficiency at work, but above all, starting from that thesis for the same job the same salary. Salaries in the public sector are still, unfortunately, arranged with a whole series of laws and because of the different payment models lead to inequality in rights, resulting in inconsistencies, the inability of an effective control, not transparency, I would say with certainty to an unfair system. Therefore, the regulation of the public sector wage system is a significant task for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a significant task for you and for your ministry, because the only fairer modality we can count on is professional, creative, but also not corrupt administration, which we all hope together, we are seeking. These amendments to the law, as has been said in the opening statement, extend the deadlines for applying the provisions of a part relating to just one part of the public sector. The reasons are given. Those reasons are justifiable for us. The first reason, as a few colleagues say, is this one unpredictable year, a year full of challenges, a pandemic caused by a covid, and of course that's a completely justified reason because the pandemic has, unfortunately, disrupted and somehow expanded all processes, all changes at this point. The second reason is that precisely because of all the challenges we have faced this year, we also believe that one detailed analysis, one detailed study, and to see how much this new model will affect, above all, the budget of the Republic of Serbia and how much it will affect macroeconomic stability. So we fully support the reasons that you have stated for prolonging the application of the provisions of this roof law. Public administration reform is a lasting process that is a prerequisite for the implementation of important state reform objectives and for general progress in all areas of society. It is the public administration that must also be professional, it must be professional, it must be able to reform society. Public administration isn't just a mere administration. It's absolutely the wrong perception to view public administration as a mere administration. It is both the creator and the realiser of many social changes and therefore should have a decent place in state infrastructure. Every public profession starts with a judge, a doctor, a teacher, a tenant, a civil servant, and even those at a local level who are employed in heat, public enterprises, any other public enterprise, a plumbing, actually represent a biography of our country. They are all part of the system, they are all an important link to the realisation of the goal that we want to achieve, and each of these professions must have its place of origin, but of course there must be one high degree of responsibility for this work. We can't, ladies and gentlemen, develop public administration and have a young, highly educated, high-quality public administration man receive a salary of 40,000 dinars or below 40,000 dinars. There are examples like this in local self-government. There are examples like this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia where stadiums, people who work, our young people, educated people who work in parliamentary groups very valuablely and dedicatedly and devotedly, have a salary of 40,000 dinars. A few days ago, speaking with the representatives of the Fiscal Council, we were having a heated debate here. Right on the subject of public sector pay increases. On the one hand, we felt that this was fully justified and that it was important to raise wages and that it was important to improve the standard of living and that public sector wage increases encourage and raise wages in the private sector. On the other hand, one key question is raised, and that is, we have on call critics all the time saying that young people are leaving Serbia, that highly educated young people are leaving Serbia, and we are asking a simple question – how will you keep them in Serbia? By allowing them to work in local self-government for 40,000 dinars? Let's say they're doing a public procurement job that's a huge liability and that they have a salary of 40,000 dinars for that job? You won't be safe. So we were completely agreed and today I want to point out again, we agree with the increase in public sector wages and welcome this commitment and determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3.5% early next year, and in April of the month, an additional 1.5%. Here's also the essential question, you know how to keep young people in the state administration and who's going to work in the state administration tomorrow, who's going to keep this country's legal framework? Because it's the state administration that's implementing the laws right now. Every reform in society depends on the expertise, commitment of the public administration, its loyalty to the state and the law. Our government has identified public administration reform as one of the reform objectives, starting primarily with its importance for strengthening the rule of law and for our European path. Our reform goal is an effective and functional public authority in accordance with international standards and accepting those good examples of European practice, but public administrations that will primarily work on the well-being of citizens. So, firstly a man, firstly a Serbian citizen, firstly a public interest. In this sense, Serbia adopted a public administration reform strategy in 2014. At that time, a number of other strategic documents have been brought forward to contribute to the implementation of the main objective, because without a quality legal framework, this is the starting point in order to be able to start a successful reform process, but without effective implementation of public policies in all the vital sectors of the state, which is precisely the task of the entire public sector, it is difficult to achieve any development goal. So the public sector is exactly the part of the system that has mirrored a legal and orderly state. These are the services and bodies before which citizens exercise their rights, but these are the services and bodies before which citizens and carry out their obligations, at different levels of government -- the Republic, the province, the city, the municipal level of government. In this context, the capacity of public administration needs to be developed. How to develop public administration capacities? First of all, professionalization and modernisation, and second segment of reform – rationalization. When we say professionalization and rationalization, of course we think, first of all, of more effective application of the rules so that citizens can exercise their rights effectively and in quality, and when we say rationalization, a kind of simple word, but too complex and complex question. Rationalisation must not be taken into account by the mere reduction of public sector employees. It must not be reduced to linear, let me say, reduction of public sector employment, because then we do not come to the essential goal we want to achieve. We can't identify that, if you remember, with a reform of the judiciary a few years ago when it was fired I don't know how many hundreds of judges, so we had both a slow and unprofessional and an unattainable judiciary. So, and here you need to do a detailed analysis, and here you need to do one study and then on that basis enter into an efficient process of rationalization. Therefore, it must not and cannot be at the heart of the efficiency of the organ’s work. We fully agree with what a member of the SNS has been saying for a short time, as regards the new public sector employment system. In fact, we never even had a ban on public sector employment, we had only a controlled employment system and as far as I know, according to some of the information I have, local self-government has largely stuck to it. But I think the methodology and method that will be used from the beginning of next year is much better. So, as of January 1st, each institution is responsible for how many people will be employed, but that number cannot be more than 70% of those who for various reasons left the institution. If that's over 70%, then it certainly takes the commission's consent, the committee in charge. Allow me to refer specifically to local self-government, its reform processes, to the importance of local self-government for each citizen, and therefore to the issues of funding local self-government, the salaries of local self-government employees, which are part of the pay reform in the entire public sector. In fact, a set of laws adopted during 2016 and the coming years planned to introduce payment classes for all public sector employees to get close to the same salary for the same work, regardless of the level of government, so whether it is the city, whether it is the municipality, whether it is the Republic. This would mean for local self-government that their salaries are evened out with salaries for the same jobs being done in other municipalities or other cities that may be more economically powerful. Why? Besides, also because equally responsible jobs in a small municipality are paid less than in larger, more developed environments whose economic power is greater. It has to be applied here, I would say, one principle of functionality and efficiency, and there is no way around the analysis of budget needs and the budgetary burdens that this model carries. The efficient and effective administration must also be cheaper, so less burden for citizens of local self-government, less burden for citizens of Serbia. Local self-government is the first touch of citizens with a state and an important pillar of each state. Some citizens in smaller municipalities are far away, far away from the republican ministries, but local self-government is within reach, and they have gotten used to their life issues just to solve it through local self-government. In this, the role of local self-government is also more important. The maximum number of requests is currently being resolved in local self-government. But as a depression and as a topic of thought, I want to impose one piece of information. Let's say, the municipality of Crna Trava, which hypothetically has about 1,500 inhabitants or New Belgrade that has over, I think, let someone correct me, I don't know the exact information, but over certainly 270,000 residents, has the same jurisdiction and has the same powers. Black grass with human resources and financial opportunities, with all due respect, but I don't think it can provide the same opportunities. Why am I saying this? For one simple reason, because we think we need one functional network of local self-government in the direction of raising above all quality, centralization and decentralisation of jobs in some way. So, jobs that are properly done at the local level to stay, and all the rest to one, I'd say, middle level. This can be a topic of thinking, certainly in the next period of time. So to establish a middle level of government where more jobs would be done for more municipalities at that level. I think that the system of local self-government has matured for a serious document, raises the issue of reform of local self-government, but still respecting what is very important, and these are demographic movements, because the huge outflow of the population from smaller municipalities, smaller local self-government towards larger cities. A modern strategy of local self-government is needed, the level deserves both a modern and modern approach. Also, dear Mrs. Obradovic, I believe you will keep the trend of digitisation and e-government, to do as many jobs in one place, so work to implement all of this in as many cities and municipalities as possible. I know that even during yesterday you worked on that, that you had activity just directed towards it. I believe that in as many cities and municipalities you will manage to digitize, to provide eGovernment, that citizens simply don't have to wander from the counter to the counter, but to do on one counter all those jobs that are necessary, and yet according to the possibilities. Once again, at the very end, of course you will have support from the SPS parliamentary group for these proposals. We fully understand the reasons you stated. I repeat, they're justified, I can only put another one at the very end, let's say for a third reason, let's say many serious states that introduced paying classes worked as long as ten years to make this system work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1866	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. The first is MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1867	I thank you, Professor Orlic. Dear fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, respected minister, Mrs Obradovic, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrljig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I was selected from the SNS list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasants' Party. As always, I'm going to say about practical things about all these bill proposals. Otherwise, at first I would like to thank and welcome our Minister Obradovic, who until recently was with us here in the Assembly, who has shown how to behave, how the MP should work, and you will certainly be like this today and tomorrow at the place of the Minister for State Administration and local self-government. I'm sure we'll have much more favourable things, by looking back at the fact that this year has been catastrophic, about the pandemic that's happened to all of us, both here in Serbia and in the world, and that's going to change some things. However, Serbia is one of the leading in terms of success in work and combating Kovid-19. As far as these draft laws are concerned, I will say only a few things, in particular I will support all these bill proposals as an MP and as president of the United Peasants' Party. I think this is necessary because of this difficult situation, but we must say, he spoke of both the representative and the head of the SPS Parliament Club, very soon he will also be voted on by the Payment Class Act. When we talked about the problems and salaries of civil servants in local self-government units or in state bodies, we witnessed that in small areas, from which I come, there are salaries of people working in the public sector and wages in the private sector very small. We're environments where the lowest profits are, so when there's a place to hire someone in the public sector, a lot of people come in. We have just heard here that when a competition is launched on the territory of Belgrade City, for any place, that's what Mr. Djukanovic was talking about, that no one wants to report because the salaries are small. Because of this, I think we need to give more support, greater accent in undeveloped environments, municipalities like Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, municipalities in southeastern Serbia, because that way we will have the opportunity to give these people who live there, who are really very difficult to live in these small communities, will be a big thing for them when they have a better public service, when these people are more satisfied, and all of this is because of our people living in those environments. That the man who comes from some village around Svrlig, that the man who comes from some village in the municipality of Gadjino Han, Bela Palanka, Meroshina, who comes from some township, here, is next to me, my colleague and neighbor Bratimir Vasiljevic, who always stands for the Panteli municipality, for the city of Nis, because he wants the citizens of Nis and Pantele, and I want to do the same, that they can do their jobs easier and faster. I'm sure together we'll all be supporting our government, supporting some things to change for the better, and dealing with Kovid-19 in the first place. As for these proposals, I expect that during the next period we will solve these payment classes, that tomorrow man and worker in Srlig and White Palanca, Književec, Sokobanja, Aleksinac, any part of southeast Serbia, that this worker doing the same jobs has the same income as in larger centres, as here in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica or elsewhere. One of the important things is to equalize the conditions of life, to make services for these people better. I've always advocated that in the middle, like the environment I come from, more investment was provided to finish what was started. Otherwise, it's a good thing we're going to talk about today about this loan to build parts of the road that need to be done in the next period, which will connect certain parts of the country. I'd like to get into the process as soon as possible, do that part of the Nis road to Pristina. It would be a good idea to do a part of the master's trip that goes from Književci to Zajecar, Negotina, Prahova, Pristina, where there will be great investments, where there will be a better chance of some things being done there, to bring even more investment, and that part of the road there will be very important for all of us. So, let's finish up and start the railroads that go from Nis, and when I say that, I'm talking about that problem that concerns us from southeast Serbia, to finish building the railroad, and it's already done a lot, from Nis through Svreljjeg, Književci, towards Zajecar and towards Prahvo. These are all the things that this and the previous government and the government led by President Vukic is doing maximum good. It's about building roads, building pipelines, infrastructures, and we expect to go through Project 2020/2025 in the next period. For years to build infrastructure in all municipalities, we provide water supply, sewerage, road infrastructure, and most important of all these things is to bring investors. Once again, honourable fellow Members, I will vote in favour of these bill proposals, and to you, the honourable minister, we give maximum support, because you do what you do with a full heart. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1868	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1869	Thank you. Dear President, Vice-Presidents, members of the government with my associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable minister, before I focus my presentation on a set of proposed laws, I would like to point out the following. In 2012 when, as fellow Members of Parliament, we participated together in the formation of the Women's Parliamentary Network, you remember that as a role model, we had the Republic of Finland and the way and model of functioning in Finland as a model that we simply wanted to apply in our Parliament. Also, you'll agree with me, we may have been a little skeptical about the possibility that to this extent we'll actually be able to achieve a greater share of the less represented gender in public functions and in those places where it's actually being decided. Here, today we have the best example that it is possible and that at that time, with great support from all fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, we have actually succeeded in our intention. One of those important topics that needs to be discussed is the public sector, and that is why today we are talking about a set of rules on public sector employees' salaries. Their adoption, as we could hear in previous presentations by the MPs, is necessary in order to allow for the full implementation of all pay regulations relating to this main, or roof law in the public sector in the coming period, which means intensive cooperation of all those participants who can actually have any kind of share in creating the way this system will function in the first place. All of this was significantly difficult during 2020 because of the pandemic of the coronary virus, which has disrupted us in many ways, including the implementation of such an important law. I will begin my presentation with a brief review of the Law amending the Law and the public sector wage system as a system, i.e. basic law, which sets out deadlines for the start of its application, as well as the application of other specific laws which rely on it, which regulate salaries, salary fees and other receipts in all parts of the public sector. The public sector wage system law as a roof law laying down frameworks, principles and elements for public sector income calculation was adopted in February 2016 and was then planned to adopt laws in 2016 to adjust profits in public services, local self-government and autonomous areas, as well as in public services. Then, the plan was to coordinate the profits of civil servants, i.e. 2018 in the police, military and security sectors in 2017. This would practically cover all those sectors that as their base have this law. The proposed amendment of this law moves the start date to 1 January 2022. Further reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on civil servants should be sought, the Minister explained this at the outset and, if necessary, to postpone the application of the law in the act which prescribes the obligation to conduct a public competition for entry into service for a certain period of time due to the temporary increase in the scope of the work. Namely, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, which entered into force on 1 January 2019, prescribed the obligation to conduct a public competition for entry into service for a certain period of time as a result of the temporarily increased volume of work, began in 2021. The deadline was then, at that time, stated as a reason, i.e. as a time period for state authorities from the entry into force of the law until their application in that part, to actually establish a single system and a record of candidates from the electoral lists who participated in the public competition and who met the conditions required for the selection and who could ultimately be involved in the process of working for a certain period of time without the implementation of the competition procedure, in order to more effectively fill their jobs. Since we have been in force for the past two years since the entry into force of this law to date, because of the conditions of controlled employment arising from the Budgetary System Act and the regulations limiting the number of employees or the maximum number of employees in the public sector, we have not been able to carry out enough competitive procedures to allow for the reception of employees for a certain period of time due to the increased volume of work, and therefore there is no single record which, as such, could serve as a way to implement this law from the time limit set in it. For these reasons, it is proposed to establish a temporary increase in the size of the business on 1 January 2023 as the start of the obligation to conduct a contest for a certain period of time. The set of amendments to the public sector wage regulations should be observed by respecting the fact that due to numerous factors caused by the coronary virus, it was almost impossible to implement it, starting in January 2021. Also, I think it is very important to point out that the total number of employees in the state sector, especially when we talk about Serbia, is much smaller than the number of public sector employees if we look at the data of Central and Eastern Europe. So, for example, in Serbia, every 100 inhabitants were around seven employed in the public sector, and based on data from the Republic Statistics Institute, for example, in 2016, the number of public sector employees was close to 450 000 employees. However, the path to achieving today’s results has not been a bit easy. I'll remind you, I think we've had a chance to hear about it today, a fiscal consolidation that, at the time it started in its implementation, has actually led to a reduction in total employee expenditure, but has not completely eliminated all the shortcomings that we in the public system, or in the public sector system, actually have. I mean paying classes, but also a more comprehensive analysis of the need for appropriate staff in different state sectors. You will agree with me that in certain state sectors, for example, we have the extra labour force of an appropriate profile, while in some others, this number may not be fully in line with the needs of the sector itself. I think that in the next period we will certainly work on it and that special attention will be paid. I mentioned a little before fiscal consolidation, and I have to say, that is, to remember that the two measures that then marked the strong start of fiscal consolidation of public finances were, in fact, the measures that were and how unpopular they were at the time when they were adopted. One of them is the employment restriction at the end of 2013. Now, after a full six years of the fiscal consolidation measure starting with its application, we actually see its effects, positive effects, in the sense that the next year's budget envisions the abolition, gledgonically termed "no employment", i.e. these limited employment measures. This actually shows that the measures that were unpopular at the time, after six years, produced adequate results. The second, too, an unpopular measure at the time it was brought in 2014, was the reduction of wages of more than 25,000 dinars by 10%. We can treat them with interventional measures, but they have also managed to meet their basic goal, i.e. to stop the trend in the current unsustainable growth of state wage expenditure, while the fiscal deficit is reduced to a fully acceptable level. There is also the consequence that the average net salary in Serbia in September 2020, according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, was close to 60,000 dinars, i.e. nominally higher by 11.2%, or realistically by 9.2% compared to the same month in 2019, with the trend of further growth and in 2021. As Serbia tends to become an EU member, a system of wages, earnings and public sector employees' structures should certainly be seen in a broader and more comprehensive context, and I will give you one, in my opinion, a very good example. The EU accession process itself will, in time, increase pressure on the growth of the state sector's profit fund, and Romania is the best example. Between 2005 and 2008, the number of employees in the administration increased by as much as 20% in Romania, as there were several new state bodies required by the EU in order to ensure that the common market and all elements of the existence within the EU, in particular, were co-ordinated bodies in agriculture. It also increased the number of security employees by as much as 50%, requiring more border police and gendarmes, and yet in line with EU regulations and principles. I will interpret all these amendments to the law as one inevitable and as one good example that we must follow in order to continue negotiations towards full EU membership. The way in which all public sector reforms need to be implemented fully corresponds to the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's programming principles, and therefore we will support the proposals of those laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1870	Thank you, Mrs. Jefic Brankovic. Tom Phil has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1871	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the people, I am telling you because I am going to speak to you tomorrow, to remind you that the people choose judges through us, not to choose themselves. I'd very much like to thank you and your team, because you wrote well. So good, no one alive can vote against, no SPS, no me, to whom it's the hardest. Now I'll tell you why. What I'm about to talk about can be taken under the title – The emergency law changes. We have to do it, because that's the situation we're in. But let me ask someone who doesn't know the matter, you know, I'm the culprit, but let me ask you that maybe the deadlines aren't too short again? That's a suggestion to think about. Do we have a problem with deadlines? Because if our ultimate goal is pay grade, I don't know if that's enough until January 1, 2022? We should keep in mind that we're not done with the epidemic and the pandemic. How long will this accident last? Well, that's all I can tell you without you getting angry, I hope. What I want to talk about, during the campaign for the Socialist Party of Serbia in which I actively participated, were asked by journalists and people about what I would stand for in front of this Assembly, and I replied that I would stand up for the middle class, that the middle class existed in Yugoslavia and was gone. I remind you that all the descendants of the people who lived on the salary, but not only lived on the salary, went on vacation, used transport K-15, for a family discount, had a resort. Where is it? The criminal privatisation destroyed it, the breakup of Yugoslavia. That's what I want to fight for, and that's why I told you that it's the hardest thing for me to accept this, because this directly affects the middle class, and it's called in French "salarius", these are people who live on pay. My father-in-law, for example, went from his salary to his wife and four children on vacation. Let's see who can do it now. That's why it's important for these laws to be passed as soon as possible, but I'm still saying, there's nothing we can do in a hurry. I wonder if we can even bring the pay grade into this situation? You know, the biggest observation, if we talk about the same job, about the same salaries, 100 euros in Belgrade and 100 euros in Babusnica, is not the same, and that should be predicted. You know, with us people go for everybody to buy, pay rents that are 10 times bigger than in small towns. That's all things to think about how it can fit in. I kind of, with my ignorance, really admit it, because I'm saying, the guilty man, I'm thinking about how it can fit in, whether our pay classes might be like entering Europe, one day, and maybe before. What's that gonna look like? These changes are a delay in the delay in the solution. That's what hits the middle class. That's why I want to talk, and whenever I talk about that middle class that I'm nostalgia about, I'm lamentating on it in a way, but not Yugoslavia. Well, that's over. Let's do it in Serbia. You know, elementary schools had resorts. I know by chance, “Vladslav Ribnikar” had on Zlatibor. The eclipse was organized for the teachers and teachers of that school. He was for the railroads, to get dressed up for nothing, and to be in those resorts. Where are those resorts now? That's why I'm saying this, that we need to get that middle class back as soon as possible, because you're all from there. I'm the son of a lawyer, but my grandfather was a merchant, a petty merchant, of course, but it would be nicer to say he's big, but he's not. So that's the key to the whole story. Let me finish quickly, because I don't want to strangle anyone. That's what to think about, that they're not short-term deadlines, given the epidemic, and if we're going to get to those pay grade, God forbid. At your age, Minister, I'm sure, but if I'm going to experience it, I don't know. Thank you very much, and I'm sorry if I strangled you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1872	Thank you, Mr. Phila. Minister Marija Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1873	Thank you, Chairman. I want to thank all the speakers from the beginning of the debate. You were all extremely careful and extremely constructive, and each of you, I listened carefully, pointed out one detail that is being touched somewhere or the environment from which he comes, or from a group he thinks he represents here in parliament, and it is extremely important that those who are following us right now are mostly voters or potential voters, even those abstinents in the elections, but who are harsh critics, should see that the voice of the people of Serbia is really being heard here and I am out of respect for you, Mr. Tom Phila, according to your age and profession that you represent here in parliament, because I understood that you speak from your life experience and based on some personal attitude about all of this, wanted to answer you precisely that the questions that you have asked are truly life. I believe that many people who are following us today and who listen to moments of very difficult administrative debate, to say, where there are a lot of difficult expressions, that they may be best understood your question somewhere whether the deadlines are short, whether we are going to experience paying classes and whether what it says is very nice on paper, very well written, but always the implementation is holding us back, and then there we are responsible for the realization of everything that is written on paper as executive power and in some ways I can agree with you that I personally had a question, but as someone who proposes this law can tell you that among the priorities of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, I have repeatedly mentioned it in the media, there is further work on the reform of the payment system. I would be unserious to say at this point that in this year and a half, as much as we have paroled this mandate, that we will safely enter into the use of pay classes, that this law will surely be implemented. I have to leave one small reserve, for which all of you now and the public can punish me very sharply, but the laws are there to change, and the voters are there to punish or reward us for how much we realize what we promise. So that somehow I'm going around here alone, you're right, if it's 100 euros, and whether those pay classes that are supposed to be, to bring some fairness and equality to pay for the profits, so somewhere where we need to get paid is equal to what we're working for, and here we are, and we have these three objectives of reforming the payment system, so absolute justice, relative justice and efficiency. We set those three goals. Absolute justice is that the basic income in the same jobs should be equal throughout the public sector. So, if you're a hygienist or you're a driver, it would be good and it's planned to have the same basic starting salary. After that, we go to another principle -- relative justice, where the difference on the complexity of jobs and knowledge is needed in order for a particular job to be done should also be reflected at the level of earnings, regardless of the part of the public sector in which the employee is employed, and we now have different situations, just what you say, that in Babusnica and Belgrade are not the same earners for the same job. Maybe these two examples of hygienist and driver aren't exactly the best, but let's just say that if we take the position of a referent or a civil servant in the public administration, then the situation is already different. Let's go back. There have been attempts to respect the corrective coefficient due to the cost of life. I think that's what Minister Vujovic insisted on for a time, to introduce that kind of coefficient, but it still carries another kind of risk. The story of paying classes needs to be brought in, in addition to that fairness in the cost of profit and to contribute to the policy of moving forward in Serbia and that people for certain jobs that work in a smaller place, have an interest in staying in their place. They say, I will work the same job in Belgrade and go to Belgrade because I have a higher salary, but if the state guarantees that they will have the same income in their place for the job they're doing, then he won't want to leave his post and that's one way to keep us people in smaller places and prevent the outflow to Belgrade, Nis, to Novi Sad. At the very beginning and when I explained this law, I wanted you to always read a wider picture and spread the context in which each of these laws is passed and this law of payment system reform is part of a wider story, about public administration reform. Several of you have mentioned whether this is our obligation, public administration reform on the path of European integration, certainly it is, but we have long distanced ourselves in Serbia from the way of European integration being a must, but we have accepted that the standards imposed on us on the European path actually make it clear to us that it promotes life daily in every place and professionally and personally. That is why we accept this process of European integration as a way of accepting better standards. It's a very complicated story. I want people to get as much information as possible about the payment system reform. We will discuss this in detail over the next year, how much we get if you adopt this bill, to postpone for January 2022. These intensive talks will rest on what we did in 2019 and 2020, because in 2020, it went on a little bit more and we don't know how long it will last. There were also these questions on your side - where is the end. I'm afraid of one thing, that the arrival of vaccination in Serbia, or the beginning of vaccination in Serbia, will not be the end of the herdsmen, because at this point, and we really need your help from MPs as someone who is constantly on the ground with citizens and who can affect public opinion in Serbia and media aid, that these anti-vaxer movements, which currently exist in Serbia, reduce their strength, actually explain to the citizens what it is and what the importance of vaccination is, and which is why it is important that as many of us are vaccinated to reduce the number of people who will remain the potential risk of infecting again. We really don't have a way to get people vaccinated. We can strongly appeal and we can promote the importance of vaccination, but it is up to each of us to make that personal decision. There's a very risky question, almost someone asked me on the ground, one citizen, because really, doing things that concern the Ministry of State and local self-government, I'm pretty much in the field. Here, I want to welcome the people of Pirot and Kurzumlia, yesterday we were hanging out opening a unique administrative place and if there's a chance today and I'm going to say two words about it. Someone asked me, right in Pirot, is there any way we can get people to vaccinate? I still don't have the information that we can force people to do that. But then they asked -- and what about people who don't want to be vaccinated, say, an educator doesn't want to be vaccinated, do I have the right as a parent not to send a child to school if the teacher won't vaccinate? I don't want to put my child at risk. And that's just one point, and that's a lot. It's my appeal that you always think about a bigger picture, and if any of your personal interests are currently important to you, think about how it affects the environment, everything that you're part of the story every day. Then let me get back to what we're part of today's story. Mr. Fila, I absolutely understand your question about all this, whether the deadlines are good or not. At this point, this bill passed an absolute public debate with a regular procedure. All ministries and professional entities, professional bodies have declared themselves in this opinion, trade unions certainly. There was an opportunity for them to come forward and say what was under question. We have reached an agreement somewhere that these are real proposals, but I agree with you that we should also think about the difficult 2021. I agree that we are waiting for the spring of 2022 elections in Serbia. And these are all different points to think about, but politics is like that, it's a living thing. We need to be ready to act, and so do you, as a legislator, and we as someone who needs to enforce that law, at this point legislators, which means that we all have to be constantly active, present, reflect on our reality and try to repack it into laws. Just one more thing, when we talk about this bill and more has mentioned how the salaries were moving. I just want two, three things to mention, that pure people have a show. We are currently delaying law enforcement, but at no time have we questioned whether or not we will ever introduce payment classes and give up reform, it certainly does not give up. Profits and employment in the state sector have extremely significant economic and social implications, you all know and of course that the state, as the largest employer in Serbia's economy, is almost half a million people, if we exclude public enterprises, then it's about 350,000 people working in public administration and that's when you multiply with the number of family members, a significant part of Serbia, and we think very much about all of it. But this is a good opportunity and to thank everyone who worked in front of the Ministry of State and local self-government, people who insisted, had the courage to start and work on this extensive and complex job. I want to stress that, at the head of this payment system reform initiative, he was still Alexander Vukic. He was the one who wanted to reward the enormous effort and efforts of health workers and to raise their profits in an extraordinary manner, in the past, since the outbreak of Kovid was started. Their salaries have been increased 10% since the start of the epidemiological crisis. Since January 2021, five additional per cent for healthcare workers, i.e. healthcare workers, and this will actually be a raise to 50% for individual healthcare workers since 2018. Here, just some indicators. Of course, there is a difference between employed and employed, but for example, the basic income of a nurse was slightly more than 38,000 dinars in 2018, in March 2021 it was planned to be slightly less than 57,000 dinars. That's 49% cumulative growth. Medical subspecies doctor about 40% cumulative growth. So the basic salary was somewhere around 82,600 dinars, in March 2021 there should be 115,000 dinars. Take these particular figures conditionally, it's an important percentage, so cumulative growth. Doctor of medicine subspecies since 2018, three years later and two and a half years later 40% increase. Teacher of teaching and educator 25% cumulative growth from 2018 to March 2021. If we're talking about referents, public administration employees, cumulative growth 21%. It's similar for a junior advisor or senior advisor at the state administration. So we're working intensively to raise wages and pensions. You're aware of that every day. It's not easy, it can't be taken out of your pocket without any problems. Serious rationalisation, serious fiscal consolidation, a thrift-domestic relationship is needed in all segments of society. This was only done thanks to the fact that during the prime minister's term of office, now and the presidential term, Aleksandar Vukic was extremely strict in respect of all those rules that we set in the campaign before 2012, and then we started to implement from 2012 until today. The bottom line of this payment system reform story is that we keep the highest quality people in the public sector, and then it's clear to you that the only way to really stay in the public sector is for us to justly evaluate their work, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia intends to carry out it decisively. Thank you for your support. Many of you have honestly said that this is the only way to delay the application of this law, set, of the pay system at this point. Thank you. We'll keep listening carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1874	Thank you. Mr Jadranka Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1875	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister Marija Obradovic, we miss you here, dear citizens, I would like to say something about the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France concerning priority projects in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Belgrade as a multimillion-dollar city with impatience and has long been waiting for the construction of the subway, not only because of the density of the population, but also because practically from year to year our traffic is increasing. I think this is an extremely important investment that, as far as I'm aware, should be realized next year, in fact, that first part of the subway realization plan. In addition, France, which has a serious experience, will convey this experience when it comes to automation in the management of electricity distribution networks. We know that they have good experience and we expect this important project to come to life and be realized in our country. A few days ago, more precisely on December 18th, I, as president of the Parliamentary Friendship Group, in this conference with France, had the pleasure of talking to French Ambassador to Belgrade, Mr Jean Louis Falkoni, where we were, of course, discussing exactly these projects, capital projects, important to our country, but also many other types of co-operation between France and Serbia. It is known that France is the seventh foreign investor in our country. Our co-operation, apart from the already known French company Vensi Aeropor, when we talk about Nikola Tesla airport, about infrastructure and airport planning, this co-operation is very broad and concerns other aspects of our mutual co-operation. I'll just mention some. Let's say, for better defence, Serbian soldiers participate in the EU mission, right in the French contingent in Somalia on the Atalanta mission, but what I particularly appreciate is that an agreement in the field of culture has been restored, and it is a cinematographic co-production between France and Serbia and you are also concerned with co-production in the field of comics. The French film has one special place in European culture and with its style, with its significance. We are witnessing that large film productions in Italy and Germany are slowly disappearing, and on the other hand in Serbia and France are growing more and more, and I think this is a very good co-operation on film, in terms of co-production, which with these different cultures will certainly make some innovation, some news, and that is what I am particularly happy about when it comes to co-operation between Serbia and France. So not only the field of economy, but also the field of culture. I have to say that we've come to a meeting together, which was really one serious meeting, a long, not superficial, honest, warm, friendly, one meeting that, with a lot of good intentions on both sides, which I especially look forward to... The meeting was attended by MPs, whom I would like to thank this time and thank, members of the Parliamentary Friendship Group with France: Dr Laketić with an extremely interesting connection and a story with France, MP Karic and MP Djivanovic. They all made one serious contribution, quality, to our talks with the conclusion that co-operation between France and Serbia is good, but that it could certainly be better on all issues. Now we have a special chance of visiting President McCrone, who was our year 2019. I've had the honor and great pleasure of being personally in that delegation waiting for President McCron. So, I really expect this co-operation to expand to the fullest extent in all fields. I would especially like to draw attention to something I've been saying, and this is an opportunity to maybe explain it for the citizens, and I think we have representatives from the Foreign Ministry, which is the subject of francophony. I noticed that not all of Serbia's clear participation in francophony, citizens, and I was particularly inspired by one text that came out of "Politice" of an experienced analyst or columnist in fact, where he even asked the question of where Serbia came from in francophony. I must tell you, and I am glad to have the opportunity for citizens who may be watching this transmission, for four years I have been head of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophony and how happy I am and I think it is very important that Serbia is a member of this so large and significant international organisation that counts 88 states in different properties and, to clarify, France did not initiate the establishment of francophony, but rather a set of African countries that actually have as one of their main languages French as an official language. It is impossible to ask the question of where Serbia comes from in Francophonia, because the francophony is extended to all those countries that traditionally have, not only political, friendly and economic relations, but relations that last an entire period, and that is the basis for something that happened in July 2019, where I can proudly tell you that Serbia has changed its status and has become an associated member from observers. That's what happened in Abigail at that parliamentary level. We had great support for the French man. It's another kind of co-operation, especially the Secretary-General of Francophony, Mr. Jacques Krabal, who has been helping us in all situations and working in a very warm way to change our status. On the other hand, what I would also like to point out, which was not known, at least not as much as I think it should have been known, is that already in August of 2019, and that was the direct consequence of the visit of President McCron, as a priority, as parliament, we received an invitation for Serbia to take part in an observation mission within the framework of the Francophony that took place in the parliamentary and presidential elections in Tunisia. It was the first time that Serbia participated in this observation mission and it is the conclusion that Serbia can certainly underline, strengthen and strengthen its international influence through Francophony, not only with France, as one of the very important EU members, one of the EU's founders, but of course through francophony, to co-operate with traditionally friendly African countries. As an Frankophone, as someone who in his childhood still met with French and through French learned much about culture and history, as well as francophyl, with great sympathy for the French people, I hope and wish that a special bond between our two presidents, President McCron and our President Alexander Vukic, I recently read that they heard from the phone, not to speak of a touching message, a Cyrillic message, sent by President McCron to our president about the loss of our dear Patriarch Irine. I think it's a fantastic platform that after a chill in the relationship between France and Serbia which, this is my personal opinion, which was not Serbia's fault... I think it's very good, I'm very happy that the very strong uphill line of relations between France and Serbia, not only through these priority projects, important for our country, is moving forward. I expect them to really shine and pray to the MPs, young MPs, and young people in our country to devote themselves to learning the French language. That's what we're missing and what's on our side is our obligation and a call from my side to commit a little more French. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1876	Thank you. The word is Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1877	Dear Vice President Orlic, Mrs. Marija Obradovic, with associates, honourable MPs, is one of the most interesting things for me here, I will only talk about two laws. Support for Serbia's development projects, of course, that point 6 concerning the Ruma-Shabac highway and the fast traffic to Zvornik, i.e. Loznica, has already entered the people without talking about MPs, who all know what it is, that there is little to talk about. Metro's new and it's starting today, and that's why a generation of young people have a chance on that subway to take off the agenda of this discussion that's often coming up here, and I'm getting hit, because I've worked on infrastructure projects for a long time, so I feel responsible when you're criticizing past times. Let me just say one truth, for the realization of projects like this, children, two things are a condition. First, political stability in the country and the political will of the country's leadership to enter into the realization of such projects and secondly, money. To say one more thing, I remember the government, come on, the Republic of Serbia, I'm not going into Yugoslavia, from the 1970s to today, they all had a desire to go into the realisation of the subway, everything. But as you can see, today, here I am now getting information from the City Assembly, we have deadlines today and we're moving, I'm sure, in the realisation of the subway. Of course, the great merit of the state, I rarely praise Vukic, because there is Palma to praise him, so I will not exaggerate, but of course the merit of the state being behind these projects, without the support of the state and the president, there is no realisation of it. In various times, don't be too critical of old times, here, I've lived through it all, you know what the realisation was in the 1990s? It's heavy. Speaking of subways, we've had 1990s with the French, and the same companies that are now coming here, the pre-negotiation for the fast track, for the 200-250-mile-an-hour track. The sanctions came in after a year and the project stopped. Here, it's coming true today. So today the state created conditions through 140,000,000 for next year's budget, well, it never was. So that's exactly why it was late. Of course, there were subjective weaknesses and I admit it, but today we have extraordinary conditions and it takes a young generation to use. As far as the subway is concerned, I think it's an indicative example of starting to realize that metro, and that's all I'm going to say, and what Tom says, is that I'm not taking time away from the young MPs, 1972 or 1973, the city came to millions of people. It's an important figure for realisation and for beginning to think about underground traffic in a big city. The then mayor, Branko Pesic, I always mention him as a legendary mayor, with leadership and an interdisciplinary team of experts, designed what Belgrade should be in the next 100 years. Then Belgrade is defined as a city of services, there is no industry, there is no industry outside the city. To be a city service he must be like most cities of the world associated with fast communication with the world. Then "Gazala" came, then "Belgrade Node", the beginning of works, of course "Gazala" was completed. That's when the internal traffic was considered, the subway. About the subway, then the first study was done in four or five years, a complete study. I always advise my younger experts, and look at that study a little bit. They're not the same lines, I'm not going to comment now, I'm going to say there if anyone asks any of these young experts, then the Belgrade knot was defined, the amphitheater's move, today's "Belgrade on Water" then, and, of course, while Mr. Pesic or other Pesic was mayor something was done by it. Today we are finishing all these projects and be proud of you living in a country that has such stability political and such leadership that, I exaggerated in praise, which knows what it does. Infrastructure is the basis for the development of the entire economy, and we all know that here today and young MPs when you go there to your place, that's exactly what you're affirming as a development budget. The budget is a developmental one, and the developmental one has great responsibility and patience to explain to the citizens what it is that we do. You have that chance and use it. As far as the subway's concerned, I don't have any objections. Metro, according to the dynamics we have here, unfortunately, I don't know if all the MPs got it, I asked Vesic and Nikola Nikodijevic and I got it, and there's absolutely a beginning of construction next year and that's the most important thing for me. One suggestion, I am sorry that it is not Minister Momirovic here, a young, ambitious man, and it is good that the state has made a decision that the government is taking care of the subway, is a metro development project for Serbia. Why? That's the last sentence. The construction of roads is mainly a construction operation and what follows a little new innovation. There's a big technological revolution in the rail system and the rail system, and that's what someone used to say before me, I wasn't, but I saw it on the TV upstairs. So, new technology comes in, there are French world champions, and that is an important decision was to enter with the French into the realization of the project. There is what brings money and young people, but I suggest to people who run the Ministry of Traffic, probably, I don't know how it's going to be organised, or even a colleague who runs the economy, that we and the French are co-opting that they bring their "know how" and that our businesses are doing as many of them as we have. We also have them to develop this technology, because metro is a project that lives for the next 30-50 years. He didn't stop anywhere in the world, and that's why your generation, these young people, needs to get dressed and our businesses do it. We did it in the 1990s. Even the French, we improved the factory in Smederev with one component for wheels that, until then, we had a factory, this is the one "Gosa" that worked bigger trains for high speeds, and that kind of operation is important. Don't just let strangers work with us. Our companies, therefore from project, from design services to construction – our companies. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1878	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one saying that "the public sector lives as it pleases and privately as it must". Most of the time, these laws are about delaying the application of certain members. I don't mind. The pay ratio between the public sector and private sector is still in favour of the public sector. It's something that can be less worrying now than a few years ago when private sector wages were less by one-quarter than in the public sector. Today it's fixed, but there's still a difference somewhere around 11,000 dinars. So in the real private sector, the average wage is less than 11,000 dinars than in the public sector. Now, the public sector also lacks certain interests that should be paid far more, and these laws and these members should be done and arranged for each to be rewarded for their work, performance, etc., regardless of the public sector. Money is a commodity that buys all other goods. Money is a means to exchange goods. The money needs to be made. It's been a while since the former social capital regime came across money, so on the other hand, donor support, credit debt, and all of this went into consumption without the money going through production. Without production and services, there is no healthy money and we need to take care of it. There's also a saying that, which also needs to go in favour of the private real sector, which says that, and that's true, that people who sit, and we belong, are always better paid than people who stand and backpack. They say that people who are from the real sector that the most juridical money is the one from the state authorities, that everything else is a little harder to make money than spend it. We need to balance the public private sector. In the public sector, we need to balance that everyone who does the same job, wherever they do it, whether in agencies, whether in the ministry, whether in another public enterprise for the same job that they do, have roughly the same personal income. Also, it should be kept in mind that people who work in the public sector have those who really work and work over their heads, there are those who in a certain way, what our people say "shut up". There should be room for rewards for those who work. You should also take care of the agencies. Some public officials cannot have three times as many salaries as public officials in a ministry who often do the most responsible work. Someone can't because he was in the backup system of DS and friends of Rodoljub Sabic and there some Jankovic that he has three or four times the salary of a martyr who's overcrowded with objects, say, at the Agrarian Payments Authority where there's only 350,000 this year. Can that number of people there at all work, if we think there are people who work, there are people who go to sick leave, there's especially now during the pandemic, you have someone loaded multiple times on the same job by someone who isn't? My sympathies are still with the real sector, because money needs to be earned and divided later on. I'll remind you that those who sold the entire social property by six, seven billion euros, as they got in that privatisation, spent it completely artificially trying to raise salaries, primarily in the public sector, so they wanted to increase their pensions, in fact later on, to make those same pensioners unhappy. Let me remind you that the average salaries at a time when money was not earned, but by borrowing and selling capital were provided by private incomes, that they were 328 euros as far as I remember. Today, the average salary is 510 euros, with me not saying that there is a need to cut wages in the public sector. What I'm saying is that we have to invest, and investment is something that drives the economy, business is an engine in a car called the state and how much economic energy we can spend as much as passengers in that car. I don't want to say that in the public sector we need to cut salaries. No, I don't. They need to be increased, but parallel to that, they also increase the average salaries of those who earn that money. By increasing the volume of investment, we are on track to do so. That's why I come from India. I started building an industrial zone, which today is one of the best in Serbia. So we've got 90's 50% of the new residents. We had 32,000, and then since the population was Lika, Bani, Kordun, because of the famous events and the beastly banishment of the population from Croatia, then from BiH, that number was increased by almost 50%, or from 32,000 to 47,000 people. There was only one factory that worked for us. Then they sold that one factory, too. But thanks, among other things, to me, I was the least photographed there, the industrial zone gave its results. Today, India has exports almost equal to Montenegro's exports. What do I mean by that? That the production that took place is divided into all of Serbia. So it's Serbia's exports that are being realised in the Indjia area. Now we get thanks to the good infrastructure in the industrial zone, thanks to the pipeline that goes directly and the highway that goes right next to the industrial zone, we get a new investment called "Tojo Tigers" tire production. I recently listened to Nestorovic say he is more of a farmer because he does not pollute the environment. I must inform you, Madam Minister, gentlemen, that agriculture is one of the biggest polluters, unfortunately, because agriculture using chemical fertilisers, chemical preparations, plant protection is a major contaminant. Here's a chance to tell Nestorovic not to get involved in everything like margarine, does he know that livestock pollutes air more and affects the effects of glass gardens than all the cars in the world? So, livestock production due to the release of methane and nitrogen, and that's what ruminants do, it affects air quality more negatively, it pollutes air than all cars and all the means of transport in the world. Here's a little training for Dr. Nestorovic. When I'm on these salaries, from 328 to 510, that's an increase of about 182 to 328, that's an increase of almost 60%. Minimal went from 150 to 250. It'll be increased again. I welcome this above all that in some smaller areas of the economy it will reduce the gap between the real and the public sector. Why did I say that investment will have a significant impact on the real and private sector reaching the public? Because there was a shortage of labour in India. Our unemployment is 3.7%. I have fellow citizens living with me in the country, five kilometers from the industrial zone, who changed four jobs over the year. It is a labour fluctuation and a lack of labour force and good investment that is brought into Serbia will inevitably lead to the growth of wages in the real sector, to an increase in GDP and when GDP, which is like a cake, we who live in the real sector, are doing it and when we make this bigger cake, called GDP, then both the private sector and the public sector, will remain more to be divided. I also have to say this -- that these unfortunate people who sold the entire social property, whose donor support of four, five billion served just to put it somewhere in their private pockets, mostly I'm not sure that it came full amount to the population, and to remind them that they were forgiven the debts of about four, five billion in the Paris and London Club, and yet they left us a debt of 17.7 billion, not a debt of 17.7 billion. We have paid between six and seven billion of their interest in the past eight years because they owed money because the state they ran and the economy of that country had no rating, and that's why these loans were very expensive, and that's why we paid their interest dearly, although now, as far as I can see, loans are 1% or 1.5%. Imagine their loans of six or seven percent. Mostly to say and finally to conclude, my sympathies are still towards the real private sector, but I also support that in the public sector the pay is growing, believing that, thanks to the investments that we bring to Serbia, we will increase GDP, there is a cake, and that each of us will be left with one piece more, and I especially want workers with a minimumer to get the opportunity to grow even more in the coming year. Why? Because by paying taxes, because the contributions will make all the funds fuller and we'll all be more satisfied, but we have to invest, it's the fuel that drives the engine and the exchanger of this country must move. Employers don't pay, let me tell you, the conclusion. Employers pay salaries, and salaries are paid by customers of our goods and our services, therefore, what is invested, which is produced. There's a call on these foreign investors. Foreign investors first register the company here and it becomes a domestic company. In principle, it is a domestic company and operates under domestic laws and it is a company that I would set up, and foreign investors bring us customers. They mainly come to produce goods that already have a market in Western Europe, including Russia and China, thus providing salaries for both the public and private sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1880	Thank you. The word is "Zonimir Stević".
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1881	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is now on the agenda of several laws relating to the public sector pay system. It is about amending five laws, which mainly extend deadlines for applying a new model of public sector wages that we know as payment classes. The adoption of a roof law on the public sector wage system, the law governing salaries of employees in the bodies of autonomous provinces, local self-government, public services, salaries of police and military officials, and the law governing salaries in public agencies and other organisations, whose founders of the Republic, province or local self-government at the time of the previous government and Minister Ruzic, led by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, created a complete legal framework for public administration reform, and thus reforming the wage system in this sector under the new model of payment classes. In fact, we have experience with this payment model since 2007 when the Law on civil servants and tenants and the Law on salaries of civil servants and substitutes has been passed and its implementation in other parts of the public sector remains. As the deadlines for the introduction of this payment principle in all specific parts of the public administration stand out, we have before us amendments to the laws which move the deadline for the introduction of payment classes for another year. As a reason for the extension of the deadline, the Proposer states, above all, the need to further analyse the impact of payment classes on budget costs, as well as the inability to complete all necessary jobs because of Kovid. This opportunity should draw attention to the importance of the role of the public sector for every legal and democratically-oriented state. The public sector is a large and complex system covering a large number of bodies and services, a large number of jobs and responsibilities, a large number of jobs, a large number of public authorities, in rural, municipal bodies, public services, education, health, culture, physical culture, children's and social protection. There are also the full judiciary, police, military, security services and each of these parts of the public sector has their role and place in society and provide an integrated development path for society. The company cannot move forward unless there is a good public administration, because public administration in all its segments is not the only administrator of certain procedures. It's also a creative factor in development. The administration is also an image of the rule of law that enables its citizens to exercise legal rights but also fulfil legal obligations in an effective way. Basically, the first meeting of citizens with the state is a meeting with the state administration on some counter or in some order for a document or tax payment. It is therefore important for the state to have a professional, efficient, responsible, depolitical and non-corruption administration. The public sector is implementing all social reforms and therefore it must be reformed, adequately arranged, efficient, professional and functional with as little cost per citizen as possible and with the better service it provides. For example, we can count on the good effects of tax policy with a good tax administration, good results of social policy if we have motivated and conscious experts in social work centres, we can be safe if we have professionals in police and military. But public sector employees must be motivated for their work, as the material motivation of an employed civil servant depends on the results of progress in each segment of society. In Serbia, as in other countries, it is constantly looking for the best or optimal model of organisation, but also rewarding employees in all parts of the public sector so that such a public sector can achieve our key development goals. Today, Serbia is on track to provide citizens with an efficient administration, and the public administration with a better position. These are some of the elements of the general public sector reform that began years ago. The public sector strategy adopted in 2014 defined the most important objectives. First of all, these are: better management organisation, development of a modern and professional service system, improvement of the system of local self-government, digitisation and development of electronic administration. When it comes to the modernisation of the administration, or digitisation, we can say that significant progress has already been made here that citizens can already feel in the process of exercising different rights before state authorities and services. As a strategically important result, I would mention the establishment of a Central Population Register, a unique electronic database of all population data based on the law adopted in early 2019, which allows for the integration of data on citizens from 13 different and unrelated registers. This is a major advance in the way citizens can come up with different documents and papers without waiting in different rows. Also, the Single Administrative Place project, launched in 2018, improved the work of the administration at local level. At the time of Minister Branko Ruzic, from 2016 to 2020, the Ministry of State Administration set up a complete legal framework for reforming this sector and establishing a modern, transparent, efficient and responsible public administration that has approached citizens. This progress is significant and obvious, as connecting the databases provided the possibility that citizens could all end up in one place, from taking over documents to getting different administrative acts. The work of the public administration is often simplified, misjudged, and citizens often experience poor experiences. That's exactly the kind of picture we want to change by reform. The public administration must be a partner to the citizens. I would return to the question of a public sector pay system that is certainly not easy to establish. It is important for the model to be fairer, to provide a more favourable social economic position for all employees in order to motivate them to do their job even more committed, so that the administration wants young highly educated staff to work. It's not stimulating for a young, college-educated man to work for 40,000 in the National Assembly. I am in favour of applying the payment class model in all parts of the public sector to additional economic and social analysis, in order to see the impact of applying this model on all professions, all jobs, but above all on the necessary budget resources for its application. In this respect, the SPS parliamentary group will support the postponement of deadlines for applying a new model of salary in the public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1882	Thank you, Mr. Stevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm now setting a 60-minute break. We continue work at 15.00 hours. First next exhibition, MP Vesna Rankovic. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1883	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. National MP Vesna Rankovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1884	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and, of course, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a set of laws that regulate employment and wages in the public sector. What I want to point out is that after the difficult reforms he started, and then successfully conducted by Aleksandar Vukic, together with us as his associates, but of course, there is also a great support for you, or citizens, the time has come to see and what are the positive results of these reforms. Reforms included, among other things, reforming our payment system. As you have already had the opportunity to hear from my previous speakers, one of the biggest reforms that has been waiting for us since 1 January is that there will no longer be a limit when it comes to the number of public sector employees, i.e. there will no longer be a need for agreement between public enterprises and institutions to hire new workers in their businesses and institutions. However, in order not to be able to work uncontrollably after six years since the ban has been in force, of course it will not be able to work uncontrollably, the opinion is on this, and therefore any public undertaking or institution will be able to employ in its company or establish new employees up to 70% compared to the natural outflow that took place in the previous year. What is also important to point out when it comes to payment system reform in the Republic of Serbia, it is up to 1 January to increase public sector wages. The increase in wages will be most felt by the medical workers who are now in this difficult situation where the whole world, well, so our country, has suffered the greatest burden, so to speak, and who work day and night. Now I will take the opportunity to thank them publicly, as most of my colleagues have done so far, they will have a 5% increase, while all other public sector employees have a 3.5% increase, and there is a tendency to reach that 5% salary increase from April 1st and the rest of the public sector. What is also important and what I want to point out is that the state in these difficult times that we are now in is not only thinking about the public sector, but also thinking about the private sector, and providing, we have had the opportunity to send everyone away and talk about it at previous sessions, so I won't owe it, has provided great support to the private sector through various subsidies. It also provided great support to our pensioners who have also brought these reforms, which I have been talking about since 2012, to their shoulders. On December 18th, pensioners received one-off cash aid of 5,000 dinars, while, of course, as I have already pointed out, medical workers who have suffered the greatest burden due to the pandemic of the coronary virus received one-off aid of 10,000 dinars in December. When it comes to this increase, given that the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia are currently 510 euros, this means, in order to illustrate more picturesquely, that means that each citizen will have 27 euros in increases amounting to over 3,100 dinars. Also, the state's concern when it comes to the pandemic of the coronary virus doesn't end here. We had a chance to escort only a few days ago to open up a covid hospital in Kruševec, before the hove of the hospital in Batajnica. So our country built two hoofs of hospitals in a record-breaking period of just four months. In addition, there is no end, 386 billion dinars were identified for healthcare in the following year. In fact, we show our responsibility, both when it comes to health care and when it comes to capital investments, because it has never been allocated to capital investments again, we have had the opportunity to listen to our finance minister, Sinisha Malo, who has hosted or attended meetings of the National Assembly in the past sessions. What I also want to point out is that the goal of this is to realise the 2025 project, which envisions an average salary in 2025, which aims to make the average salary of 2025 at 900 euros and the average pension of 440 euros. I know that at these times when there is a crisis all over the world and when some countries we either think about or know are far more stable than we are, they have to freeze salaries, that they even cut salaries, we plan to set ourselves up and achieve such a big goal, and I know that many suspect that, in the wake of all of this 2025, the average salary and pensions will be that much, but I am sure that with the great effort, the work and the pawnship of our President Alexander Vukic, then all of us as his associates, it is possible, because before 2012 when we talked about all these reforms that have led to these increases that I am talking about, many did not believe that it would happen, but with day and effort we actually succeeded. What I want to point out in the end is that in the voting day, besides my parliamentary group that I belong to, Alexander Vukic – To our children, I will support a set of laws on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1885	Thank you. Vesna, as I understand it, it's your first exposure. The word is Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1886	Dear President, the Honorable Minister Obradovic, colleagues and fellow MPs, as we have had the opportunity to hear from the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, today it is about amendments to the law, which mainly refers to the redefining of deadlines, for several reasons. The first reason is the covid, the year marked by the covid and the vacuum of a year we had, the complexity and complexity of the public sector, but also the need for alignment with one of the financial frameworks of the state. We, MPs of the SPS, agree that, from objective circumstances, we had to postpone the application of these laws, which are both systemic and reformal, and which relate to the harmonisation of salaries throughout the public sector. The application of these laws concerns a large number of civil servants. As we know, they are employees of education, in health care, in the judiciary, in science, but also in all other parts of the public sector. It is precisely because of the complexity of these parts of the public sector that I mentioned, first of all, I mean health care and education, which is essential to us essential reform, which is the essential application and quality of the application of these legal acts, so that we do not come to an end between applying norms, but also the reality that we are surrounded by. The dynamic itself is not crucial if it leads to better and better quality public service provision. Of course, we also care about speed and that we get to the desired quality as soon as possible, but the state administration as a service to citizens is that quality that we seek, which is one of the key issues on our path to the EU. These laws will introduce a new method of evaluation, a new way of establishing criteria and benchmarks, and what is particularly important for me and for us socialists is that by applying these laws, we will achieve a fairer standard, a fairer way of evaluating and rewarding public sector employees. Part of this set of laws is also the Law amending the Law on Employees' Salaries and Units of Local Self-Government, which also shifts the deadline for 2022, i.e. the deadline for applying the new model and the next two budget years, when it comes to awarding and grading. What I would especially like to stress is the importance of introducing this new model of wages to the authorities of local self-government, and here I think it is of multiple importance. Why? Because employees of local self-government authorities after introducing this new model will have the opportunity to have roughly the same salary for the same or similar jobs. Or, when the basis for calculating these salaries is established, we won't have such a big difference for the same job as this is now the case. Compensating wages for civil servants would be a kind of incentive to stay in their places, because we have some extreme examples of devastated and undeveloped environments, where it's almost difficult to find a good expert in the administration, and one of the reasons is because they're low wages. Salaries here also play the role of one instrument of balanced regional development, but first of all I think this could be considered a state measure to mitigate migration from smaller cities to large cities. As part of the public administration system, in my previous work and experience, I know how many positive effects and results have been given by public administration reform, which we started in 2014 by adopting the government's strategic document, which refers precisely to this period, by 2020. The new Law on General Administrative Procedure and e-Government have contributed to raising the standards of functioning of the public sector in general, and above all I think through the internal improvement of communication, whether it relates to the exchange of data between different institutions, but also to improving the communication of civil servants with citizens. This is reflected, for example, in the benefits of reducing administrative costs, by avoiding the unnecessary bureaucracy that we have had so far, but also in significant savings of time, making it easier for our citizens to live daily. By affirming and introducing a single management post, which involves providing public services in one place, that is, our citizens no longer walk from the counter to the counter, but have the opportunity to achieve all their requirements and obligations on a united, so-called. to the single counter, the administrative procedure itself is quite simplified, and services to our citizens are provided faster and better quality. What I would like to point out is that there are many services that have been implemented in almost all local environments – virtual parent, e-baby service, which have been extremely significant and brought in large newspapers, electronic charge of administrative taxis, system 48 hours and many others. In all these newspapers carried out in the functioning of the public administration in recent years, we have had a result, and that result is the administration approximated to citizens. The public administration is closest to the citizens and that is what is particularly important, because, because of the wide range of services provided to our citizens, it also has the most direct communication with them. That is why it is our task to constantly promote it, to constantly modernise it, to see citizens as their sole service. With that in mind, a modern civil servant must be rewarded for his contribution, and here above all I mean proportionate to my productivity, the proportionate complexity of my work, but also to advocate more effective exercise of his rights, but also the rights of our citizens and their demands. For the successful and efficient state administration that we seek is to invest in human resources and strengthen official systems, rejuvenation of personnel, employment of IT experts. This is especially important, because we need the informational literacy of the officials. Finally, the creation of a system for faster promotion in the ministry based on results achieved. Such systems will contribute to our civil servants, which will motivate them to bring innovation into the public sector. I therefore believe that the overall reform also depends on investment in human resources, either through the specialisation of existing staff, but also by rejuvenation of the structure of employees. With the high level of digitisation that we have achieved so far, along with the reforms we have implemented so far, with this reform of the pay system that we will implement in 2022 in the entire public sector, we will round up a systematic multi-layered process of public administration reform, whose goal will be to meet citizens and quality civil servants. I note that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote and support these amendments to the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1887	Thank you. National MP Natasa Ivanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1888	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People and, of course, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 8, is seen in determining and providing the system in the field of labour relations, labour protection, employment, social security and other forms of social security, as well as other economic and social relations of general interest. The same member, item 17, provides for and provides other relations of interest for the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution. The need to set a new deadline for the implementation of the system, and hence the specific laws governing salaries, salary fees and other receipts in all parts of the public sector, is the reason for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. The cause of this need is the complexity of the epidemiological situation caused by the Covid 19 pandemic in our country during this year 2020. This complexity didn't stop the fight. She is present in hospitals, shops, kindergartens, schools, municipalities. She's present in us. There's a fight in the place where I live. She's present through pawnage, effort, but also work. Thanks to the programme conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who understands the importance of every municipality in the overall development of our country, the work of the president of Duško Nedinić municipality with its associates and co-workers has contributed to the struggle in the Petrovac Municipality of Mlava, which would be shown in short. Through investments in road infrastructure, the reconstruction of the regional road Požarevac – Petrovac na Mlava – Krepoljin and the reconstruction of the city bridge is important to note that the city bridge has not been reconstructed since 1939, when it was released and in traffic and that it was a black spot in the traffic of our city. A whole urban neighborhood located near the primary school has been reconstructed and is now one of the most beautiful parts of the city is safe for children who go to school and residents. The city centre received a brand-new appearance by reconstructing the pedestrian zone. As the Republic has heard of our municipality, so our municipality has hearing of all settlements. Several bridges were built or reconstructed by villages, and about 50km of local roads were built throughout the territory. What I also want to point out and what it represents is how Minister Nedimovic said a demonstration exercise for all of Serbia is a dam and a system of booming barriers built on the Busur River after the flood that hit the municipality in 2018. We were then in a terrible situation, where at night, roads and bridges disappeared. People were saving themselves. The large engagement and rapid reaction of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Public Investment Management Office and the “Serbian” Public Enterprise have been rehabilitated, and the realization of this capital project has provided my fellow citizens with peace and security. I've been a teacher for 18 years, so I'm putting an accent on the reconstruction of schools in Burovac and Blood settlements that died in floods or schools in Kamenovo, one of the oldest schools in Serbia and the construction of children's playgrounds. I am a mother, and I am proud to stress that I am a parent of four children, and therefore I am loudly in favour of the recent amendment of the PTA Regulation, which increases the amount of parental allowance for each newborn from 25,000 dinars to 35,000 dinars for the first and second children and 50,000 dinars for the third and each next child. The municipality also financially supports out-of-body fertilisation, and the kindergarten is free of charge for several categories of population. Such co-operation and prominent results require the quality of the functioning of all public sector subsystems, and therefore the implementation of measures and activities resulting from such a difficult and specific situation. The complexity of the process, the implementation of the law, which implies a whole range of activities for state authorities, AP authorities and local self-government units, as well as other public sector employers, i.e. public services and other legal entities, conditioned the need to leave an appropriate period of time until the application of the law which would allow for smooth communication on reform activities with all parts of the public sector. Due to the inability and knowledge of the duration, and we hope to stop the epidemiological situation, as well as the consequences that it can cause for the smooth functioning of the entire public sector, it is proposed that, as a deadline for the application of the law, be determined in 2022. For 2020, as well as for the next two financial years for the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal for provisions to be amended, Article 39, is being made. – alignment of special laws and Article 40 of the Law. It should be noted that data from the Republic Statistics Institute show that profits from public sector employees in Serbia have increased by one year. Salaries have grown in administration, public enterprises, as well as in healthcare, education, culture and social protection. The data presented highlight the concern and responsible behaviour of the policy of the President of the State of Aleksandr Vukic, so it is proposed that the law enters into force the next day from the day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, because there is a particularly justified reason for the entry into force of the law before the eighth day of publication in accordance with Article 196(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is to postpone the application of the law for 1 January 2021, because conditions for its application have not been created and thus avoid harmful consequences for the work of state authorities, AP authorities, local self-government units, public agencies, public services and the exercise of employees' rights. Notwithstanding the delays in the Law on Public Sector Salary Reform, in this difficult situation, especially for health workers, support is provided through the adoption of a budget that allows for salary increases, which will increase the salary for all medical workers by 5% as of 1 January, and for all others, the first increase of 3.5% is foreseen, and then from April of next year by an additional 1.5%. The government of the Republic of Serbia also made sure that during 2020 healthcare workers' salaries increased by an additional 10%, due to the most difficult situation in which they have found themselves in the last decades and the greatest burden they bear due to the pandemic. Your Honor, I suggest the adoption of a set of laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1889	Thank you, Natasha. Congratulations for two reasons, for the first discussion and I want a lot of success, and congratulations on what you said about you being a mother of four. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1890	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. On today's agenda, we have a set of laws that propose changes in the field of working relationships. One of these laws is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants applicable from 1 January 2019. It prescribed an obligation to conduct a public labour competition for a certain time due to a temporary increase in the size of the job, starting on January 1st, 2021. First of all, that deadline is given for state authorities to have enough time to prepare themselves, to establish a record of candidates participating in the public competition, but in the period between 2019 and 2020, we all know that we have had a restriction on employment and that therefore not enough competition procedures have been implemented to establish records of persons who can be admitted to a working relationship for a certain period of time. In addition, the duration of the competition proceedings was influenced by the pandemic caused by the Corona virus, but your ministry, Mrs Obradovic, has been working on an analysis of the competitions conducted, the competitive procedures in the previous two years, and they have said that the number of candidates who have successfully passed the competition procedure is slightly above the number of performers needed in advertising jobs for a certain time. Because of this, and making sure that adequate candidate records are established that the state authority could hire for a certain period of time without conducting an additional competition. You will agree, Ministerial, that in some cases this could jeopardise the efficiency of the state authorities' operations and today we have a proposal to move from January 1st 2021 to January 1st, 2023. It is a good thing that this deadline is consistent with the new type of employment control that we voted on a few weeks ago by voting on the Budgetary System Act, and we determined who they are. It should be said that the initiative was submitted by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Tax Administration and many other state bodies for amending the law. Speaking of human resources, I want to commend and last year we passed the Law on the establishment of a National Academy of Public Administration. It's a major promotion for the human resources management system. This institution uses all officials to acquire new knowledge and master all processes involving the modernisation of local self-government. This raises the quality of the work of civil servants, and yet for the benefit of the citizens, because we want public administration to be citizens, and that is a good way to respond to its modernisation and digitisation, to everything that follows our country's development. Also today, we have amendments to four more laws setting a new deadline for the implementation of the system, and therefore special laws governing salaries, fees and other receipts in all parts of the public sector. The deadline shifted by 1 January 2022. The need for these changes was caused, above all, by the complex epidemiological situation in which our country was in 2020. This, by the way, has led to additional burden on the capacity and physical constraints of public sector work and to a difficult functioning of public sector subsystems in which these reforms should be implemented. As a result, it is impossible to carry out activities by all participants in the reform and to establish an effective mechanism for moving to a new public sector wage system in early 2021. For the sake of information, the public sector with which payment classes will be covered, there are more than 400,000 employees in institutions, state authorities and public agencies, but I want to say that, regardless of the delay of the Reform and Salary Act, public sector employees are a difficult situation, and particularly health employees. They were supported by the adoption of a budget that allowed pay increases, and that was one way of thanking as a state all medical workers who were day and night worrying and saving the lives of our citizens. Otherwise, the wage reform process is a complex and extensive job and many countries have been conducting it and preparing it for more than 10 years, so the previous delays and these delays are in fact only because we want as a state and, of course, you as a resolute ministry to get this law done as best as possible and to apply it better tomorrow and implement it in society. Otherwise, public administration reform is one of the government's key priorities and one of the three key conditions for Serbia and the EU's accession. Both in the previous period and in the period of the term of office of Mr Ruzic, they worked hard to improve the work of municipal and city administrations through projects of efficient administration. It is designed to develop and expand a single administrative place, which is much easier for citizens to exercise their rights and to get the information they need. Especially so, as I said, in these difficult times when the literal work of all institutions was blocked and we all moved on to that online. It has shown how much the state and your ministry have been prepared to respond to this challenge and all praises for it. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group believes that future work should continue to develop the efficiency and professional state, or local self-government, investment in human resources, as the aim is for citizens who provide services and service providers to be satisfied, because, as I said, public administration should be tailored and in the service of citizens. Then, with the modern technique of the authorities of state and local self-government, and that is the goal of this ministry, and I believe that you, Mrs. Obradovic, will build such a system that will make it possible for all of this, and because of all that I have stated, the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia will support the proposed laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1891	Thank you, Maria. The word has the People's MP Anna Beloic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1892	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, the respected citizens of Serbia, it is an extraordinary honor for me to have the opportunity to talk today about a set of laws and projects that directly lead to the growth and development of our economy, on the one hand. On the other hand, up to the growth of the standard of living of all our citizens. Accordingly, we had the opportunity to hear really much about the budget for 2021 both from the government representatives and from my esteemed fellow Members of Parliament and we were able to conclude one very important thing, which is that this is about the development budget. What does that mean? This means that the accent has been put into investment in capital projects, capital investments, so that we can realise three very important effects in this way. First of all, by investing in capital projects, we wanted to achieve rapid growth and the development of our economy. Then we wanted to get out of the crisis as soon as possible caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus that affected the whole world, and unfortunately our country. Of course, we wanted to come out of this crisis as winners, namely to keep that prestigious first place at the rate of economic growth that we have throughout Europe. I will remind you that the prominent finance institutions have projected that Serbia will continue to maintain this prestigious first place in the economic growth rate across Europe and that the initially projected rate from 4% will increase to an incredible 6%, given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the Serbian economy generally struggled with the crisis caused by the coronary pandemic of the virus. So, I must stress that we have a set of laws that are generally attached to the planned budget for 2021, such as the Ruma highway construction project – Šabac and the fast traffic station Shabac – Loznica, which is one priority project for the reason that it connects 600,000 people living in Sremski and Mačvanski County, on the one hand. On the other hand, there is a link between our country and the region, that is, BiH. This is in line with the policy implemented by the SNS, with the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia and the policy of the President of the Republic of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. It is certainly a policy of integration, networking and uniform rural and regional development, which is of great importance to us from within. Agenda 2020 – 2025 clearly states that 350km of new highways will be built over the next five years. The 2021 budget already envisions a continuation of the construction of the Preljin-Pozega highway, then the Moravski Corridor, which should connect increasingly important centres and local self-government in the part of Serbia, where 500 thousand people live. On the other hand, the budget includes the Belgrade highway -- Sarajevo, which connects us to the region. So, by investing, first of all, in these capital projects, i.e. in roads, in railways, there is actually an increase in the income of local self-government, and that is of great importance, because in this way they redistribute funds to solve the key problems facing people in local self-government. On the other hand, this is how investors are attracted, then new jobs are created, and generally the standard of living for all of our citizens, because we want to realize what we have outlined and what we have promised our citizens in the past elections, which is that the average salary is 900 euros, and the average pension in the next five years is 440 euros. As I said, we are implementing a policy of uniform regional development, because we must never allow ourselves to once again become a citizen of the second order, as was the case until the moment when the SNS did not come to power. You all remember very well the situation the cities were in until the moment we came to power. So the cities were completely devastated, completely ruined. Half a million people are left on the street, half a million people are out of a job. Hundreds and hundreds of factories were closed, and people in empty pockets went to their homes, went to their children to tell them that they no longer have the basic means of living existence, and I am telling you that as someone from the inside, as someone who has indeed faced all these problems that every average citizen in the Republic of Serbia faces. We didn't want to repeat that scenario at any cost. We wanted to deal with all these problems by coming to power, so we wanted to solve these problems, not to carry out what I would call a populist policy and just talk about them and thus get cheap political points. We wanted to solve problems, and it seems to me that we're really successful, because in every city we've built at least one factory and employed thousands and thousands of people. When we talk about this uniform regional development, I would certainly praise the government of Serbia's efforts, the efforts of the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Finance, to lift the ban on public sector employment. I think it's very important, especially when we talk about these small environments, where, unfortunately, the private sector is not largely developed. I believe that in this way it provides, above all, the space for young people to return to their small environments, that it is here on their centuries-old hearths to build families, to find their jobs, to find prey, and not to ask, to say, to go after bread or to some larger cities in the Republic of Serbia or beyond the borders of our country, unfortunately, as we have faced before. So that's what I say on behalf of the people of Raska, from which I come and represent myself in this House, but of course, on behalf of all other young people who face the same or similar problems. I'll take this opportunity anyway to praise the construction of the Belgrade subway. It is another priority project, which is of strategic importance, because I believe that Belgrade, as one European metropolis, which actually attracts a growing number of people, not only from the interior, but from all over Europe, really deserves such a single project, which has been talked about for decades, and no one, on the other hand, has had the courage to realise such a project. So, first of all, one sustainable, continuous economic development is provided, and on the other hand the transfer of both technology and people is ensured. So I will certainly appeal to my esteemed fellow MPs to support this set of laws and a set of projects that are on the agenda today. I will certainly do it in the voting day, because I really support every project that leads to the improvement, growth and development of our Serbia, because Serbia is our country. We don't have a better one. Serbia is the land of our grandfathers, fathers and the land of our children. That is why we have to try to improve it, develop it, build it and use all the potentials Serbia offers us, which I think we are, that we are not sufficiently in the world. Serbia will remain in prosperity, along the way of progress, the way of fighting for a better, better and safer future, for our children, because every other time is a disaster. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1893	Thank you. The word is Zagorka Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1894	Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, Minister Obradovic, today I will focus on the proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Serbian government and the French government on the area of implementation of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia. The JS parliamentary group will support this important agreement in the voting day, which is mostly financially oriented to building the first line of the Belgrade subway, and others to improve the power distribution network, i.e. the introduction of a general automation of the management of the Serbian power grid. The introduction of general automation will allow reliable supply of electricity, energy that is more quality, clearer insight into faults and their more efficient repair, reduction of abuse and what is particularly significant, which will encourage the use of renewable energy sources. Also, in the capital, I would mention it, it's working on shutting down individual boiler rooms, it's a process that takes place, but it's slowly and safely happening in Belgrade. An agreement signed several weeks ago with the French foreign trade minister was the introduction to this capital but also the most demanding project to be expected for decades. The government says that building a subway is the largest infrastructure investment in this part of Europe, worth six billion euros. Serbia's capital has a constant trend of growth and development, and this also imposes a number of problems of sustainable development, conservation of the environment, not to mention often urbanisation that is capable of getting out of control, as well as various traffic problems. There are 650,000 car vehicles in Belgrade. On the other hand, statistics say 50% of total transportation in the city's territory is achieved through public urban transport, and the dominant mode of transport is the bus. We had an opportunity to hear that the assumption that the metro would use about 30% of Belgrade's. The construction of this long-awaited project should improve public transport and disperse the wider city centre from the vehicle, which will also affect the reduction of air pollution, as the traffic of motor vehicles in cities is responsible for an average of 40% of total carbon dioxide emissions. Belgrade's metro is also needed today, and when we look at it from a modern perspective, metro and public urban transport are in general important factors in urban mobility, which is the number one issue in European circles that promote the human environment. Last Friday, and I consider it a very important skill, Belgrade received a sustainable urban mobility plan and these plans should live in all local self-governments. Urban mobility stimulates the movement of people, promotion of cycling, electrical trotines and, of course, provides a safe environment for driving these means of transport and, above all, assumes a reduction of motor vehicles on the territory of an urban environment. Developed urban mobility projects encourage alternative movements where possible and feasible. I can't help but mention the problems of people with disabilities in traffic, who are numerous. This, experts say, particularly highlights the security problem of people with disabilities in traffic. These are complex and multidimensional problems, and they depend on multiple factors, because each form of disability is different and requires a different approach. For projects of national importance, for projects concerning the conservation of the environment and projects promoting healthy lifestyles, you will always have the support of the president of the JS and all of us from the parliamentary group. We will support a law confirming this agreement and as representatives of citizens, we expect planned activities to be implemented within the promised deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1895	Thank you. The word has Dr Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1896	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a very important set of laws in the area of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. What's very important is that in the past few years we've passed these laws, but unfortunately, the Covid 19 pandemic, which has not bypassed our country, has caused us to have to postpone the deadlines for implementing these laws today. You know how important it is for us all that we have adopted in previous years, given the situation in our country that was until 2012, but when we have a healthy and responsible policy, responsible president and responsible Government of the Republic of Serbia, nothing is difficult for us. What I can say is that the complexity of the law implementation process is such that deadlines are necessary for the implementation of this law and that it is really important for these deadlines to be delayed, so that everything is done properly and properly. Of course, in the voting day, it is indisputable that we will support these amendments and that we will pass those laws in that term as the minister has already said. What I can't help but mention today from this place is that I look back at last weekend and one big day for Serbia, when another hospital is open in our beautiful country, and this is Kovid hospital in Krusevec. We're aware of the situation and the seriousness that we're in, because the vicious virus and this monster that hit us really leaves great victims every day. And here, in today's day, when we have over 300,000 registered cases, we really needed something like that. What I can't keep quiet about is that those on-call haters don't choose an opportunity and don't choose a moment when they will collapse on both the President of the Republic and all the people who work in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. So the one who had been seeing drugs in Morovic and migrants in Tristenik and the one who falsely accused the Serb people of genocide in Srebrenica, a certain Marinika Tepic, can only tweet because I guess there she is aware that she can win the elections. On Saturday, when the hospital opened in Krusevec, she said that desperate citizens were apparently sending her messages and showing her that the works were still running without the maltene hospital being there. I'd remind my ex-workmate that, here, during yesterday, patients were admitted, that many lives were saved. I don't know if it matters to her or whether it matters to her just to work in the interest of the Serb people. I really can't understand that someone in this situation, at a time like this, when a pandemic is harassing the world, not just our country, can invent such things. What the President of the Republic did in the previous period is that two hospitals were built in record time, and more than 500 beds are available from the hospital in Kruševec. It is not only where the health and lives of our citizens will be protected, but new jobs are opened. It employs over 800 people, which medically, not medical staff. Like I said, not only did she see those migrants, the drugs in Morovic, well, now she sees them... The worst part is that she uses the pictures that were published during the construction of the hospital's covid. So she uses them for these purposes and false attacks both our President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all those people who already, behold, have been fighting day and night for four months working to get the hospital done and to start working. So I really don't know what else I could add when these Twitters are opposition. I guess because they don't have a policy, they don't have a programme, they have nothing to go out with in front of Serbian citizens, because they showed up in the period until 2012 as officials of the parties at the time, and what some as officials, some as members, have nothing to offer and that they are simply sent to a political dump for a reason. Once again, I would like to add that in the day of voting we will support these good laws because we have convinced ourselves in the previous eight years that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, is doing the right thing and that he is fighting exclusively for the interests and for the well-being of all citizens, and that the message of the Alliance for Serbia and the Alliance for Failure to deprive more of these things, such lies and deceptions, because the citizens of the elections show and rightly drive them where they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1897	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1898	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, is today ahead of us a set of draft laws amending and supplementing the law in the field of state administration setting a new deadline for the start of implementation of both the system and the individual laws governing salaries, fees and other receipts in all parts of the public sector. This need is primarily caused by a complex epidemiological situation in our country that has led to the difficult functioning of all subsystems in the public sector, making it difficult to carry out the necessary measures and activities needed to move to a new pay system in 2021. What is necessary for such a system of wages on the one hand to be fair, and to satisfy on the other hand the needs of all employees in the state administration, is to reach full consensus between all participants in the negotiation process, and above all I think of the government, the resolution ministries, the local self-government units and the autonomous province. We must not allow employees of the state administration to remain deprived of individual rights or that their work is less valued than other employees in that same system of state administration, which was the case until 2012 when we started with system reforms, including the system reform of the state administration. By 2012, we met with a massive and inefficient apparatus of state administration that could not respond fully to the challenges we faced in the coming years. That's why we started reforming this system to make it a better service for both citizens and businesses. The reform of this system was a necessary condition for the continuation of our European integration and for the need to bring our legislation and the legal acts that we regulate the area of state and public administration into line with the European one. That is why in 2014, we adopted the Public Administration Reform Strategy and the Action Plan, thus expanding the scope of reforms from the state to public administration, which includes more than 500,000 employees. A little over two years ago, we founded the National Public Administration Academy, which will be attended by all government employees, where they will acquire new skills in order to be a better service to citizens. We've been increasing salaries for all public sector employees, and that's what we're going to do next year, even though we're facing a pandemic of the coronary virus. Payments for all public sector employees from 1 January will be increased by 3.5% and 1.5% from 1 April. Also, we've increased the base of the non-taxable profit from 16 to 18,000 dinars, creating room for additional salary increases. Also, I'd like to point out that we're going to set up a payment system, so every employee receives the same salary for the same job, whether it works in the municipality, the city or the ministry. It's not fair that we have different salaries for the same jobs and thus demote employees. That's exactly what we noticed in 2012 when we started with system reforms. Some former authorities' favorites were employed in non-existent jobs with enormously high earnings, and their jobs were done by other employees with much lower earnings. What is important is to point out that at one of the previous sessions, the Assembly adopted a measure that abolished the public sector employment measure and thus helped the state authorities to employ new persons without the necessary consent, the government's decision, up to 70% of the employees who had stopped working in the previous calendar year. Also, I would like to commend the bill approving money from the Unicredit Bank for the construction of a fast traffic station in Ruma - Shabac - Loznica, which is one of the most important projects of the government of the Republic of Serbia in road transport. It is precisely this project that will further connect 600,000 people in the Moravik and Sremski district, as well as further influence the integration of Podrinj and western Serbia with Vojvodina. This project includes three stages, and this is the construction of the Ruma highway - Šabac, then the bridge across Sava in Šapac, as well as the construction of a fast traffic station from Šapac over the Loznica total length of 77 kilometers. When we read the bill's proposal, we will see that it is a long-term investment loan provided by the Republic of Serbia with the necessary funds, and according to the most favourable conditions, where I would point out a lower interest rate, then the possibility of early repayment of the loan, as well as the beginning of the start of repayment of the loan. That's exactly what it tells us to stick to the policy of responsibility, so that our children don't repay unfavourable loans and thus burden their future. After the completion of this project and other important projects, of which I would point out the Moravski Corridor, we will become an even more modern and better place for foreign investments, which are the first in the region to continue to strengthen our economy and budget. What Serbian citizens should especially know is that in the past few years, Serbia has attracted almost 60% of all foreign direct investment in the Western Balkans. Because of all this, we represent leaders, both at the rate of economic growth and by the allocation of funds for capital projects, and here I mean highways, railways, fast traffic and corridors. It is obvious that someone is troubled by Serbia's strong and stable, and that is why in the next period we all have to work together so that we do not allow certain internal and external factors to endanger everything we have been fighting for the last eight years, because only complex and with the support of citizens can we be even stronger and better. In the end, I would like to invite all my colleagues to support the proposed laws in the voting day, because these are the only laws we create better conditions for stronger, better and more modern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1899	Thank you. National MP Ivana Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1900	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, we are facing today a set of laws, agreements and memos where I would first and foremost refer to the proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by the "Uncredited Bank" of Serbia and Belgrade for the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica project. At first, I would like to point out how important public capital investments are for both public finances and the private sector. At one of the previous sessions, we had the opportunity to hear much more about it and discuss it, which is exactly the debate we had on the subject of the 2021 budget and where we could hear that 330 billion dinars were being invested in public capital investments in 2021. This represents about 5.5% of our GDP, and when we add more amounts to local self-government and social funds, and just for investment, we come to 6% of GDP. For what reason has the Government of the Republic of Serbia decided on such a large amount of capital investment? Just because we were able to see how important this is and how much a good climate is achieved through public investment policy and fosters private sector, private investment and foreign direct investment. So this year 2020, the infamous year, we will end up with an inflow precisely from foreign direct investments of 2.3 billion euros. We can proudly say that no investor in this crisis year has given up investing in Serbia. Now let's go back to the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica project and how important such capital investments are for citizens living in western Serbia, how many meters each time, it was an highway, a fast road, a highway or a local road, very important for the development of one end of Serbia, such as western Serbia. To make it more clear to the citizens, I'm going to give a personal example. The village where my jam production plant was located until a few years ago had no asphalt. At that moment, you couldn't even dream of starting a job on such a single site for a simple reason because you were cut off from the highway. A few years ago, when the asphalt passed through our village, you not only raised the standard of living for all the citizens and all the villagers living in our country, but we also got the opportunity to start a job. That's why we're moving from day to day and they're opening up new little family manifestations right in our village, from carpenters to caterers, ethos accommodations, of course my jam production. I hope so, and I'm sure that's going to be more and more, because right now we're logistically connected much better to the highway. The next problem we had was just a few kilometers away, where on the magistrates, only one small part of the highway that connects Krupanj with Ljubovija and over that beautiful mountain of Jagodnja and the famous monument of the Cat Stone, on that small part of the road we had a problem that the trucks couldn't pass. Last year it was restored and that part of the road and we are proud to say now that we are very well connected to regional and magistrateal roads. With the implementation of the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica project, we will be able to connect with Vojvodina and Belgrade from this very small rural road, across the highway, and then fast traffic and at the end of the highway. All those goods and people transiting that route will be able to easily reach point A to point B. The Ruma-Shabac-Loznica project, as we could hear from the minister, consists of three phases and with the first stage which is somewhere the hardest to realize, which represents the bridge just across the Sava River near Šapac, has already begun. We have a stock from Ruma to Šapac that will represent about 22 km of highway and from Šapac to Loznica about 55 km of fast traffic. This will allow us to reach the border with BiH within about an hour from Novi Sad to Loznica. How important it is when the nearby Bratoljub Bridge between Love and Bratunc is added, where there will be a first-class border crossing, but also a customs-free zone, it will indeed enable smooth transit of both people and goods and the integration of our peoples and economic comprehensive empowerment. On one project, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, and at the level of our country as a whole, we can boast that in the previous period we had over 350 kilometers of highways built and we are proud to say that at this point our country has 924 kilometers of highway. It is very important for Serbia to be linked to the countries of the region, because, as we have said, it attracts new investments but, of course, raises the standard of living and quality of life for our citizens. As this logistics availability is important, we can all know from our private lives how close we are to work, how close we are to cottages. So, in my case, how much is the connection of your products from one, let me say, rural environments in the urban environment, and it's really an invaluable value. Some opposition and some politicians in an attempt to say that every detour or highway opening, the opening of new tech parks, is actually a continuation, to say that it's actually a campaign, but no, it's not a campaign. I would like to remind these people that citizens see very well that we have one hardworking and responsible government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic and they can see clearly and feel what has been done, built and restored, and not only for our generations, but also for generations that come after us. I would remind these people, or I would ask them to remember what was done, built and restored during their mandates, and while they try to remember at least something, what is important to the citizens of our country, is to say that we will continue with public capital investments, because that is why we are also strengthening our country's economy, but we are also raising the standard of living for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1901	Thank you very much, Ivana. I hope we try that jam, there's so much talk about it, it would be our turn to see, try quality. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1902	Mr. President, Madam Minister, the motion for these amendments to the laws that are on the agenda today that covers your ministry is expected. It's expected, according to the complexity of the matter they're processing, but what you're talking about and what's given in terms of why this law is passed, it's a difficult health situation. I want to say that in times of crisis, the states are focusing on solving key issues, in this case health problems, saving the lives of citizens, developing the infrastructure that makes it possible, and those other issues that are also important are simply prolonging during the time that comes afterwards. Hence the support you receive here in the National Assembly, as colleagues who discussed today are fully understood and the reasons why this law was passed, these laws were expected. I'm sure we all strongly believe that in the next few years, we're going to be law enforcement in terms of pay grade, so to speak, so to speak, of what the public is talking a lot about. Of course, expect criticism. It will be nothing strange, especially from those who, in their own partocracies, have destroyed the state public administration in the period of power, but have also drawn the anger of citizens to the state. It is a great job of restoring trust in the state and one of the important segments of that trust is the work of your ministry. In addition to the fact that I have already said that these laws were expected, precisely that you are, perhaps one of the most important messages you have sent, is that a new public administration reform strategy is being prepared, I would say a new strategy for a new time, because indeed many in Serbia have changed in recent years, which requires that a new message be sent about how the state administration will look in the future. Not only the eGovernment, not only the digitisation that really encouraged new impulses in the development of state administration to be closer to the citizens, but everything that was done in the previous period, well done in the absence of any politicalisation, but also clear plans of rationalisation of the state administration and, most importantly, and that is why this promotion is important when the strategy is adopted, it is the return of trust in the state administration and the whole state. It's a very important task of your ministry. What I would especially like to concentrate on in my presentation are these two agreements, an economic agreement with France and Hong Kong that do not only have an economic and economic dimension, but have a serious and important foreign policy dimension, especially an agreement with France regarding strategic projects that opens space for more serious, deeper and wider co-operation with one of the two most important countries in Europe. The impulse to co-operate, it must be said publicly, and the moment when it is important is best assessed and recognised by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, in 2019, when French President Emmanuel Makron came to visit. You know, in previous years, during the former government there has been a lot of talk about strategic partnerships that they have concluded with many countries, it is extremely important, but all these strategic partnerships, including the strategic partnership that they boasted with France, were dead letters on paper until the whole process of restoring traditional friendly relations with France was launched. Why was this important and why is it important and why will it be important for the Republic of Serbia, and why did President Vukic recognize it? This is what happens at the moment the UK exits from the EU when practically one major force remains, the main force in Europe, Germany, with which we have, I must say, that is my personal opinion, quite ambivalent relations. At an economic level, they are good, but at a political level, there are a lot of thinking and problems when it comes to our national and national interests. Based on their views and statements we have heard recently on KIM, but also on BiH and Republika Srpska, we can expect political pressures from the country in the coming period. So it was important to create and open a space for serious co-operation with France, because France was once a country with which we had great, friendly relations that were corrupt, primarily with their policy. I hear a lot lately and from my friends in France that it was their political mistake and that they want to return to the Balkans and that the opportunity for this is precisely co-operation with Serbia that they consider one of the pillars of their policy in Southeast Europe. Why do I say that the strategic partnership promoted by the former government remains a dead letter on paper, and why it is now getting its full contents are just signed 22 agreements that occurred during the visit of President Makron to Serbia, both in the area of economy and in the field of energy and in education and in the field of public administration, meaning that it also covers your ministry, and they will certainly give a new impulse to the development of our co-operation. This agreement is important because it does not only cover these two important issues that we are talking about today, these are building a Belgrade subway, and that is another proof that this project will surely be realised, because France is a serious state, and the issue of automation of electricity distribution, but it is in its provisions that opens up the possibility of concluding further and new projects, strategic projects. It is certain that France as one of the most technologically developed, perhaps even the most developed country in Europe, will, through these issues mentioned here in the agreement, which are the coming of their technologies, the training of our staff and, of course, self-investment will contribute to the development of Serbia. What is most important, co-operation with France opens up space for us, expands the strategic field in EU policy so that in the coming period, when we expect pressures to work with friendly countries to the extent that, of course, France as a member of the EU can do so, we can explain our position and reduce these pressures. It is good to work together with important European countries. It is good that these strategic partnerships are being filled out, but I would also like to urge President Aleksandar Vukic to deepen this co-operation across all segments, to strengthen our foreign policy position in the EU even more through the work of each individual ministry with colleagues, not only in France but also in other two important European states, such as Italy and Spain, and thus try to alleviate the pressures to the greatest extent possible in the coming period. No one should have any more suspicion that these pressures will be strong. They're announcing themselves these days. You have announcements from individual countries or certain senior officials of the administration in Washington, which is now coming, that a review of the Dayton Agreement will be sought, that the whole process of resolving the Kosovo issue will be speeded up, and these pressures will certainly be brought first to the president of the Republic and then, of course, to all Serbia. That is why it is important, by means of sound policy, by strengthening our economy and by strengthening our military power, as well as national unity to the greatest extent possible, to alleviate these pressures. Another important agreement is an agreement with Hong Kong. In addition to this economic and financial dimension that it will have because it will enable simple investment to be facilitated through the elimination of double income tax and property, but also the avoidance of tax evasion, it has another important political dimension, which is our friendly strategic relations with China. It is very important for Serbia, and it has been said several times by the President of the Republic and the representatives of the Government and we here in the National Assembly that China is unique, that Hong Kong is part of China and thus is defined here in this agreement, to define itself as the administrative region of the People's Republic of China. We are a fully loyal partner, regardless of the pressures we endure, regardless of our complex foreign policy position, it has never been questioned for us that China is unique and that Hong Kong is part of China and that Taiwan is part of China because China is our partner and has supported both economic and political and we are a loyal partner and we will remain and that is why these agreements are extremely important in addition to contributing to the development of our economy. As a serious state with a policy headed by the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are expanding our friendships, expanding our partnerships to the greatest extent possible to strengthen our economy, to raise the standard of citizens, to protect our security, to protect Serbs in the region. It is these agreements that we conclude with two important countries that contribute to making Serbia stronger and safer and more Serbian and safe in every country they live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1903	I thank the People's MP, John Palalic. The word has a folk emissary, Milica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1904	I will refer to the proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia for the needs of the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica project. As explained in the bill's proposal, this project is extremely important for the development and integration of about 600,000 people from the Machvan and Srem district, as well as for connecting Podrinj and Western Serbia with Vojvodina and connecting Serbia with the region. This is what I underline and cite because I know the importance of the "Milas the Great" highway for my Požega. For decades, it waited and hoped that a path would be made that would replace the unfortunate highway that took so many lives, that a path would be made that would connect Požega and Zlatibor County with other parts of our beautiful country. Finally, as the SNS came to power and President Alexander Vukic's work equally for every part of our country, this dream became a reality. Within a year, at St. Nicholas's next year, the end of the Preljin-Požega section is expected, the highway "Milos the Great". This stock is about 30.9 kilometers long and currently works are taking place to break through two tunnels, Laz and Munjino Hill, which are about 2,800 meters long. The tunnel's belly length is about 300 meters long will be the third tunnel on this section. What is the significance of this section is also saying that Minister Momirovic has already visited these works twice and has made sure how many people work every day on this section tirelessly, respecting all anti-epidmic measures, so that this share will be completed as soon as possible, because it includes, other than these three tunnels, 35 bridges, four overpasses, covers about two million metres of cubic embankments and three traffic loops. The value of these works is about 450m euros. I quote this amount because I want to make one parallel, a parallel that is a clear indicator of why the people of Serbia provide absolute support to SNS and President Aleksandr Vukic. In recent days, the city of Belgrade has filed criminal charges against NN persons on suspicion of corruption in connection with building a bridge on Ada during the former regime. The 900m-long Adi bridge, the price of the bridge, is about 400m euros. Dragan Gilas, mayor of Belgrade, at the time of this expensive construction, said the bridge does not cost so much, if at all, I still don't know that price, not because of the bridge, but because of access traffic. So let's compare, 30.9 kilometers of the Preljina-Požega highway costs the same thing as 900 meters of a bridge. Did we get that 30 kilometers free today? Of course not, but we seem to have paid one bridge a lot more than we should have. I know, someone's going to say -- you don't have to compare the bridge and the highway, they're different types of construction. But as different as they are, 30.9 kilometers and 900 meters can't cost the same thing. I hope that the authorities and this affair will be investigated and will have their hands full. In this presentation, I will look back on better topics, such as the importance of all these paths for our country. Each highway carries a faster and simpler flow of people and goods, which means a lot to the economy and tourism areas through which the highway passes. This again means new investments and new jobs. In my Požega this year, President Vukic opened a factory "The Buddha", a symbol of the old Yugoslavia and a symbol of the terrible collapse, and today a symbol of progress and a symbol of a new life. In the past, “The Buddha ” bought fruit and vegetables from the Czech region and all the surrounding places. Today, when we have a highway, the manufacturer who picks up his fruit in Subotica for just over three hours can get it to Budimka. That means a lot to the factories. Prime Minister Brnabic visited Ovcar Banja yesterday with ministers, where significant projects and investments were announced. If Belgrade were to travel to Ovcar Banje for three hours as it once did, that investment might not be rational. But today, when we have "Milosa Great" from Belgrade to Ovčar spa, it takes an hour, making the spa a real destination for a one-day trip. After the Ovčar spa, you arrive on the highway to my Požeg, the birthplace of Milos Obrenović. This highway could not bear a more beautiful name from Belgrade to Požega, but rather the name Milosa Veliki, the creator of our modern state, Serbia. Cheers!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1905	I thank the People's MP, Milic Nikolic. The People's Messenger Nenad Krstic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1906	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, given that today a set of laws is on the agenda primarily on public sector wages and units of local self-government, as I come from a small local self-government, the focus of my address is on this. In addition to the Budgetary System Act, which recently passed, which enables employment in the state sector, i.e. in the state services, this is the next one that allows units of local self-government to affirm their employees through salary increases and possible staff retention, since we know that in the past few years it has been a major outflow of our staff, primarily from small municipalities to larger centres and beyond our own country. I would like to propose to the minister, given the option I belong to, the Serbian Progressive Party, and I know that the minister herself belongs to the same, we have represented Mr. Alexander Vukic's policy and in the last elections we received 95% at the level of parliamentary and local elections in the Shop, and we have come to the conclusion that the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Local Elections must be amended. I know it's not a subject on the agenda, but I wanted to mention this too, since these two laws need to be changed. The list Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, Trgovište received all 100% mandates in the local parliament and after the establishment of the local government, i.e. the election of the president and vice president of the municipality who are elected from the council by office ends the parliamentary term. Now the Assembly of the Municipality of Trgovište has been denied two mandates, since there is no way to withdraw the list, since no other local list has passed the censorship and can be redistributed. The proposal would be to elect either the President or the Vice-President from the Board's order, but to retain their mandates, since they are elected and have the right to return in the event of their resolution or replacement, or, possibly, to form a spare list. Because with this kind of policy that builds Serbia, it increases wages, I think the trade route will follow many more local self-governments, and it will have the same problem, where the right policy that we are leading, and we see that it gives a lot of results and that Serbia is going forward, in the next few local elections, it will give God that these local self-governments have many, which are following and representing the policy that is at this point one of the most correct. I would go further on increasing profits, small municipalities, such as the Shop, increasing profits, increasing and the average of total gross income in those territories, so that such moves by the Government have full support, because without these things, they could not primarily have small environments to survive and possibly develop. Once again, I repeat that we are giving full support to the laws that are in the procedure, related to the salary increase, and also to the projects that are scheduled – the construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway as well as the Belgrade subway. All this is a sign that we will get new employment from domestic businesses and thus increase the flow of people and capital, as well as increase our own GDP and employ our own economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1907	I thank the People's Messenger, Nenad Krstic. The next word came from National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1908	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, lives in a very difficult time and we hear bad news every day. So today I want to talk about something positive, something nice. Today I will talk about the importance of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of France on cooperation in the area of implementing priority projects in the Republic of Serbia. What we promise, that's what we keep. So the Belgraders will be driving a methroom in 2022. The public company "Belgrade Metro and Train" launched a tender in July 2020 for the selection of a professional consultant for the construction of BG subways, but there is a real work to be done before the most ambitious and most important project is launched in the Serbian capital. Construction will begin in December 2021, by building a depot on the Maquis field and will be round 50 years after Belgraders were promised a metro. The slogan of the SNS itself is – others promise, we build. This is one of the biggest and most important projects we will implement after President Emanuel Makron's visit to Serbia. Together, French and Serbian experts will form a team that will realise this investment, with huge support from the government of Serbia and the city of Belgrade. The Belgrade Metro, one of the most demanding projects to be approached, would not be possible if there were no good relations between Serbia and France, thanks to Presidents Aleksandr Vukic and French President Emmanuel Makron. Also, a commercial contract has been signed to build a feasibility study to build a Belgrade subway, which is implementing the government's donation to France and is starting to realise the largest infrastructure investment in this part of Europe. The first two lines of Belgrade Metro will be built in three stages. Phase 1 – Belgrade Metro, with a maximum value of 454m euros, and general automation of the Serbian-Electrological network maximum of 127m euros. This is precisely from the agreement signed – a maximum amount of 454 million, i.e. 127 million. You see the big difference. Our predecessors who built it, repeatedly mentioned the Bridge on Adi, didn't have this maximum, they only had a minimum, and then the contract annexes had maximum prices, which we can't even count today. There's a big, big difference between this government and our predecessors. The first line would run from the Maquis field through Zarkov, Banovov hill, Belgrade Fair, Belgrade on water, the Square of the Republic, Luke Belgrade, the Pančeva Bridge, Ade Huja, all the way to the Main Post in Mirieva. The second line would go from Miriev, across Slavija, then to the other side, next to the municipality of Novi Belgrade, the Zemun stadium to the turning point. There was an agreement that the Government of China and the Government of France, as well as the Government of Serbia, "Alstom" will do electromechanicals, trains, wagons, rails, full power supply, or equipment of the subway itself, while construction works will be carried out by the Chinese company. The French government has provided funding for the work their company is doing and extremely favourable conditions have been offered by the French to "alstom" the job. The government of China will provide funding, along with Power Tea for the second part of the job. Metro has great significance. The pollution is growing, so by some estimates, four thousand vehicles are higher every year in Belgrade. Now many households have two and more cars and so much about the poor standard of population in Serbia. Belgrade on the water, but also on the subway, is a source of envy, and envy is greater as we develop more and more successfully. Another proof that we have risen in a short time and that Serbia has soon become a leader in the region of speech and what some are reporting, to say anonymously, to make their comment on Belgrade. Zagreb always had a Belgrade complex and they always compared it with us, and they couldn't wait to come to the capital of the former large SFRY. How many of their passionate artists have just been celebrated here, because everyone knows that until you win the hearts of Belgrade and are not popular in Serbia, you have failed. I recommend that we be freely bypassed by such people as Dežulovic, because they do not need our Belgrade and do not need our Serbia. To comment on someone else's yard, first you have to clean up in your own. Croatian writer, journalist, columnist Boris Dežulovic also attacked the frontman of the Riblja Čorba group, and now the answer to the legendary Bora Djordjevic has arrived and I would like to share it with you. Dežulovic said in his own time -- Belgrade killed itself, was not killed by any unfortunate from Kosovo or from Krajna, Belgrade killed Momo Kapor, was killed by the first priests of his asphalt, such as Minimaxi, Bora Djordjevici and similar city waste. These calls were answered by Bora Djordjevic of Ljubljana and with this message from the legendary Bora Corba I will finish – I do not know the mentioned, never heard, my friend Popadić says that mice spit on lions to hear about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1909	I thank the MP Natasa Jovanovic. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1910	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Madam Minister, Mrs Obradovic, with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will say a few words about the laws, i.e. the proposals of laws that treat and imply what is the main objective of the Ministry of State Administration itself and local self-government, which is to improve the service, i.e. improving the service of the entire state, or public administration of our country, when it comes to their services towards particular businesses and citizens. I support all these changes that are contained in these proposals and all that will make our public administration and our state administration the best service possible, the more effective and effective it is when it comes to those who fill our country's budget and who have the greatest impact on the business environment, but also the environment for the life and well-being of our citizens, which is the private sector. They are domestic and foreign, small, medium and large entrepreneurs, and that is what the government of the Republic of Serbia has been focusing on for several years now, it is absolutely also on the daily level to strengthen and improve this environment so that all those businessmen who exist, but of course those who are new, who are starting their initiatives, move their business and see Serbia as well as a country where they can work well, where they can make good money, that they are motivated and that they are doing everything they can to employ as much as possible, so that they can expand their production facilities, so that they can make the best possible realisation of their private initiatives. I am sure that you, Madam Minister, will make maximum progress in the work of the National Academy, the training of the Academy, which is precisely aimed at educating people in the state administration, so that they can also provide better services for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy. What is, in fact, a crucial change in what President Vukic defined as prime minister in 2014, compared to what was state and public policy in the previous period, which he put first in this country's private sector and because he put the country's economy as a priority for the thinking of political authorities, but also for all others who make decisions in this country. Knowing that this is the way to Serbia's economic recovery, towards the economic empowerment of our country and our citizens and of course towards a better geopolitical and general political position of our country. This proved to be a very, very good visionary move from six years ago, which had just contributed through the reform of the state administration and through the reform of local self-government, which contributed to Serbia today having a huge amount of foreign direct investment, that in this country finally after 30 years more firms are opening up, than closing down, and that this is a good country that is recognised by the best, strongest global investors, international organisations, institutions recommending this country for investment, which recommend this country when it comes to development and all possible business and all other arrangements. I would also like to try to explain, primarily to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how important the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on investments is, how important what President Vukic has done as a strategic geopolitical move, bonding and re-establishing several decades of excellent relations between Serbia and France. You know, we're kind of inclined to blame others for our mistakes. In this case, I think that responsibility for this co-operation between Serbia and France has been kind of interrupted and brought to the lowest possible level in history during the 1990s and in the first decade of 21. Eternity. Responsibility is on one and the other. The responsibility is on one and the other political elites, but President Vukic recognized the importance of France, recognising that France was one of the world's 10 most economically developed countries, that one of the most influential countries in the European Union had re-established those relations and brought them back to that level that once had Serbia and France before and during the First World War, after the First World War, when our country was led by King Alexander, when he led our army, and the French General Fos and all those other politicians and people who sincerely and openly supported Serbia, as President Makron does. Thanks to President Vukic, who has invested a lot of energy, a lot of knowledge, in Serbia 2019 to sign 22 agreements with France and what is even more important than that our people, that our citizens can see on the ground that these agreements are being implemented, can see on the ground that President Makron has the understanding that after 30 years so-called. "auto-pilot of the foreign policy of France" says -- I have an understanding for our friend, for our brothers in Serbia when it comes to their pararexelance political problems, which is Kosovo and Metohija, that we have their understanding, that we now have a very different view that says -- we need to respect the legitimate interests of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, but as a key player and economic and political in the territory of the Western Balkans, that we have strong support for France in the process of integration of our country into the European Union. And it's not just a matter of bilateral relations between Serbia and France, and it's not just a matter of personal, good relationship between President Vukic and President Makron, it's a question of protecting vital interests and the Republic of Serbia, but also of our people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Republika Srpska, in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, so wherever Serbs live. Because we are witnessing that both our president and our country are exposed to normal, and because of our geopolitical position and because of everything we have done on the economic plan, because Serbia has again become a winning state, which wins in investments, which wins in the economy, where our president and his team came back from Washington on 4 September, finally, after 30 years of defeat, from a great force which has not been in favor of us, with an agreement respecting Serbia's integrity, in which Serbia is respected as a country worth, a good, quality partner, in which it is not resented, and is not being held as a major sin that maintains parallel ties and maintains excellent relations with its people in Republika Srpska and with representatives of our people in Republika Srpska and BiH, in Croatia and wherever Serbs live. This is essential when we have today an attempt to revise the Dayton Agreement and as the president said, he asked a completely logical and simple question - And what would you change, what would Bisera Turkovic change? What would Elliot Engel change? What would some liberal circles in Europe change? Are defenses and security in the Dayton Agreement meant to be something that is the intelligence of an entity? Is that what they are today? No, they're not. Thanks to Paddy Ashdown, thanks to the call that was at the time ruled here in the Republic of Serbia, which she didn't even want, who had no knowledge, who didn't have enough patriotism to resist it and to work together with representatives of our people in BiH, or Republika Srpska, to defend the interests of Serbs and in Bosnia, and, of course, here in the Republic of Serbia. Unlike that time when Republika Srpska lost its powers, when it is day by day, by lagging on those high representatives, thanks to the weak government here in Belgrade, the incompetent government in Belgrade, when it has lost its sovereignty, when it has lost its rights, the Republic of Serbia is openly saying today -- we will invest in an airport in Trebinj. We will raise the factory in Drvar, which is located in the Federation of BiH, but we will invest, we are not ashamed to invest in both Banja Luka and Doboj, and in Prijedor, and wherever Serbia and the Serbian people have their own interests. Pressures are also coming back on Kim. It is clear to all of us that it is not by chance today Willey Walker, an old Albanian lobbyist, who may be the most responsible for the bombing and NATO aggression that occurred in 1999 on our country. Look, he shows up after 20 years and says that an international court should also be established for Serbs, he even mentioned that the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, should also be processed. Why? Well, thanks to these efforts by President Vukic, the international community has realized and recognised these indictments against Hasim Thaci, Jakup Krasniqi, Seljim and Kadri Vesenji, who come from different political parties with KIM, finally admitted that they were, in fact, the KLA was a terrorist organisation and that almost all the political structures in KIM were permeated by people and politics, which was defined in that so-called. KLA or you for all the normal and democratic world of terrorist organization. That is why this Agreement with France is important, and that is why it is important to build the infrastructure that the French company will operate here, and that is why our arrangement with France's Vansi has taken over and has taken concessions at the airport "Nikola Tesla". It is at this point long-term interests, it is long-term projects, it is a long-term friendship that is created today and in this way, as Alexander Vukic does, building the highway and the Moravia Corridor with the American "Bechtel", building the Balkan course when it comes to energy and connecting with Bulgaria and Turkey through, working with the Russian Federation, with the People's Republic of China, implementing what we have defined in this strategic partnership, and this is joint co-operation on building infrastructure, building railways, working together on investments in energy and all other sectors. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that China currently has an investment worth several million euros in Serbia, that Germany employs more than 60,000 people here in Serbia, our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I want to say that these investments that come from Germany, which come from France, that come from America, are investments with so-called. Economists would call it a spilling character, bring in new technologies, bring in exactly that, new partnerships, new friendships. Serbia no longer needs to be afraid, Serbia is no longer as sensitive as before, because it has succeeded so economically that it has been able to invest in its army, that it could invest in the economy, in employee earnings, grow from year to year and thus protect its vital national interests, and it will work in the future. This is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which the people of the Republic of Serbia recognize, and that is why it is more clear to that people, and it is no wonder at all when you look at public opinion research, where all those critics today of Vukic, who are counting on him through his family, through his mother, father, children, friends, political associates, to do so exclusively for the reasons they have 0%, 1%, 2%, and that he has been working hard every day for six years on what is actually the most difficult job of all, to promote a country economically, to try to do what until a few years ago was impossible, to return to the negotiating table and to the opportunities of Serbia and our people to save our people, to fight for our interests, and to fight for our own economic capacity, to fight for our economics, to fight for our strength. That's what America admitted, that's what the U.S. administration admitted, and I'm sure this new one will go on like that. Because no one is so dimmed that what has resulted, Mini Schengen, economic co-operation, four main civilization achievements, free flow of goods, people, capital, money, that what is a prerequisite and what Vukic has been talking about for six years, raising the economic power of the population, co-operation, and then only after that when greater prosperity occurs, when there is a better life in all countries and in all territories then can happen, possibly, to some kind of, primarily, reconciliation, working together, and, of course, long-term stability in this part of the Balkans. So, I want to conclude with that to give my other colleagues a chance to speak. Serbia today has a winning spirit, in Serbia today sees friends of both France and the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation and South Korea and the UAE, and Israel and all want to co-operate with Serbia, and Hungary, Mrs Kovac, 160m euros in investment by the Hungarian and Hungarian companies here, according to Minister Selakovic, after meeting with Mr Orban and Sijart a few days ago. This should be potential and should be discussed, excellent relations with the countries of the multi-city group, with countries of Orthodox quadritary, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece. In the middle of this pandemic, in the middle of this very difficult situation for the whole world, the same Alexander Vukic, the ones who are losers, the ones who actually contributed to KiM losing part of their sovereignty on a daily basis and you could see and the citizens could see the photograph when the current V.D. President, a so-called The interim institutions at KIM, Vjos Osmani, are looking at the country's foreign minister at the time and how the Kosovo delegation laughs after the UN court's decision in The Hague to make self-proclaimed independence, so-called. Kosovo is not contrary to international law, as they view it solemnly, as it subsides from the room. Today it is not such a Serbia anymore. Today, this Serbia has made it clear to all of them what it thinks of them through what they have, and what a rating and trust the one who is the greatest patriot, has the one who has done the most, not speak, but do Serbia, which is Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1911	I thank you, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, especially for an extremely interesting foreign policy review, and I think it is extremely important to talk about investment exactly, it is important that citizens have accurate information about who the biggest investors are, where most help comes from. Thank you very much. It was interesting to listen to your discussion. I think we've learned a lot. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1912	Thank you, Chairman. I will talk today about the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the "UniCredit Bank", I will also talk about an agreement with France, but before I start my argument or talk about the laws, I really can't take the impression of what we did in four months. We opened a second diagnostic centre two days ago, another hospital in Serbia in just four months. Guys, we work like Chinese. The first was December 1st, the second two days ago. We have a total of 1,500 places for sick people. Please be responsible because life has no price, no replay. Our doctors are heroes. I always talk about this because, unfortunately, I've lost some friends too, so I'm always upset. That's why we have to be responsible. As you can see, we haven't stopped working, we haven't stopped. We're working today, and we're gonna work until we get everything we need and we're never gonna stop, but please be responsible. There are 500 beds in the hospital in Kruševec, at hospital in Batajnica 930 beds. Patients in Batajnica 1,500 doctors, medical supplies, nonmedical staff are seen daily as their loved ones. Also in Kruševec. In Kruševec we have 150 beds for intensive care and that's something to talk about every day. This is something that's gonna take a while. We'll get the vaccines. Of course we'll take the vaccines. I'll take her. What do you mean we work? This is gonna take a while. This is a monster. I hear there's a strain of that disease. So we'll finish it. Serbia's been through a lot, and we're gonna finish this bastard. When we talk about the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the "Unicredit Bank", the amount is 467.500,000. Namely, it's a new highway. It's something that's extremely important for the macho county. That's 600,000 people. It will not only be Machvanski, but Sremski, the entire Vojvodina to Podrinj. Namely, it's the Ruma highway - Shabac and then the fast traffic Shabac - Loznica. It's already started to build a bridge on the Sava River. It'll work for three years. It's also a loop, so-called. Ruma loop, which will be by the bridge. It's about 22km and will also be ready in three years. Serbia is working. Of course, the fast traffic station will be ready in four years. When we have highways, we have everything. The investors are coming. Well, only in this year were there direct foreign investments of 2.9 billion. Where do you think we get our standard, where do we get to be first in the region? Hence, gentlemen, what we are doing, which we have indeed become a respectable state, not only in the region, but also in Europe. Well done, that's the way it's done. I just need to say a few more words about the Agreement with France, because these are our really checked friends. There may have been a little chill, but I really don't want to talk about it. Mr. Vucic, our president, has made the French back for our standard friends, and we have people helping us today. They help with two capital projects. One of those projects is the subway. The first phase will be launched very quickly and we received as a donation, as a gift project. It will participate in the realization of a complete subway project and Belgrade will finally become a metropolis. I hear they're criticizing us... I mean this at last under the quote, because Belgrade is the most beautiful, beautiful city in the world, and do you know why? Because he has the most wonderful people in the world. Who was in Belgrade and was not well welcomed? Please, I'm listening to some half-writers from Zagreb, where they come from, let them deal with their politics there, we have work, order and discipline here, we're the first in the region. What else do they want? Well, that's what bothers them, being first, and trust me, we'll just be better and better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1913	I thank the MP Ljiljana Malusic. On the list of speakers is the next MP Nikola Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1914	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected minister, respected MPs, we have before us the law, i.e. the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, where we are essentially only delaying the application of this law for 2022 due to circumstances that were unpredicted amid the crown of the virus. With such a law and law applicable to all employees where the founder of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, where he is the founder of local self-government units, it is necessary to bring all entities into line. So it takes a consensus to apply this law. We had to delay it because of objective reasons, due to the virus that hit the whole world. Since the process is complex, an additional period of time is needed to allow the wage system's reform to reach a financial sustainable effect from January 01st, 2022. The work of civil servants has long been followed and applied to paying classes. This application of payment classes refers to the evaluation of the work of all public sector employees and we now have as a reward for good performance, for good work, for quality work, for increasing wages, without changing the basics of profit. This reform concerns a large number of employees in various institutions, state authorities and public agencies. Therefore, a detailed analysis is necessary, due to the specificity of payment, so that all public sectors would have to carry out these in order to respect all the necessary measures and to establish a proper relationship with this law. I must point out that today we do not have any late payouts, pension payments, that we have financial stability today, that it is a stable course of dinar, that we have controlled inflation and that we are constantly increasing the minimum labour price. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to pay in the public sector evenly with salaries in the private sector, i.e., as counterpart Marijan Rističević said, that it is important for you to make the real sector, i.e. that in the private sector there be much higher wages than the state sector, because we all live on a private sector tax. We have therefore various incentives from the government of the Republic of Serbia. She gave various incentives to the private sector. One of these incentives is to recover funds for compulsory social security and for contributions, for hiring new workers from 65% to 75%. A few days ago, we had a budget adoption agenda for 2021. We've just been planning funds for these incentives with this budget. We planned funds to increase wages and this increase in public sector wages by 5%, i.e. from January 01st, by 3.5% and 1.5% in April. We have a significant salary increase at the interior ministry, as well as in Serbia's military. For years, what someone systematically destroyed, we were able to recover, speed up and increase, and all thanks to the government's measures, i.e. the difficult reforms that were implemented in 2014, when President Aleksandar Vukic was headed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Our goal is the "Serbia 2025" programme, where the salaries will be 900 euros, where pensions will be 430 euros. Great fiscal policy is under way. We have the slightest drop in GDP in Europe and Serbia is a major construction site and it is very important that Serbia takes care of citizens and citizens' health, which has been proven several times. I cannot remain silent about events and various insults that have been related to our president for years, presenting him in the most bizarre ways those who would force themselves to come to power. They've already shared their resources. They have already introduced themselves, individuals holding press conferences here outside the House of the National Assembly. They're already state secretaries, they're already ministers, someone's the Prime Minister, someone's the President of the Republic. They call it a free government. I don't know what they're supposed to release? Should they free their leader from excess property, should they free their leader from extra apartments, from extra money? Here, I'd recommend it, if that's what they do. When they were in power of pay, they were late. We can conclude that in the public sector and the main question among employees was precisely when there would be a salary, if anyone knew when there would be a salary, whether there was a salary, and then asked a colleague from another sector where she was, whether she was and when they could expect it. Today we have stability, we have a regular salary payment, and a regular pension payment. As Belgrade's election nears, attacks on the president are becoming more frequent, as are attacks on his family. They show it as if it were the Nazis, just those who promote religious discrimination, just those who sing a song cross in flames, just those who are skinheads and exactly those whose idols are the Q-Klux-Klan. Here I think of Borislav Borko Obradovic, the right for Serbian citizens to see the promotion of Boris Borka Stefanovic, where he clearly shows a generation without a future and a cross in flames, where the Q-Klan was promoted. It's today's opposition to Serbia. These are representatives of today's opposition to Serbia. They're the only motive, and they're the only ones who hate Wolfie and hate SNS. After every journal in RTS, on the second journal of RTS, this particular man on a terrace holds his own diary, he's in someone, he's become some kind of leader. I don't even know what he is anymore, whether he's skinheads, whether he's a politician or a leader. Citizens of Serbia and we all know very well here, but also citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, we know that he was head of the negotiating team with Pristina. This is what Justice, or Justice, said about it in 2012 and not so long ago in the show "Justice", where Boban Jovanovic was authored. The topic was Kosovo and Metohija, which recorded the reactions of prominent Serbs from Cosmet on an agreement signed by Borko Stefanovic on behalf of the Serbian government that year with the Albanian side. In a show whose producer, author and host Boban Jovanovic, says Marko Jaksic, late Oliver Ivanovic, Milan Ivanovic, Fatmi Šeholi and other prominent figures from Kosovo and Metohija. All participants on the Serbian side agreed that the signing of the negotiating team's chief for talks with Pristina, Borko Stefanovic and the official state of Serbia recognised Kosovo's independence, and that high treason was committed. Eight years later, the author of this show says, "It was impossible for the media at the time to hear the real truth about what was happening in Kosovo and Metohija, because Boris Tadic was absolutely keeping all the media under control. So in my own production, I did this show and I managed to broadcast it on a network of regional and local television. After the broadcast, I was contacted by people from the top of the BIA and the people around Boris Tadic. I was forced to leave Serbia. From this time distance, it is clear that Boris Tadic and Borko Stefanovic committed an act of high treason and that they should respond. Let us not forget that in this government, the head of diplomacy was Vuk Jeremic, and Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Goran Bogdanovic was the DS team." I quoted exactly what he said, what was happening on the show with Boban Jovanovic. You and such would again care about Kosovo and Metohija, you and such would take care of Serbia again. Like him, like his buddy Gilas, because he doesn't even know, I don't believe he knows what parties he's been to. He was first in the SPO, later in the DS, and was in Serbia's Left, the Alliance for Serbia and is now in what is called Gilasova, the Freedom and Justice Party. Such as he and Dragan Gilas enter the RTS with motor saws, have their own performance, say it's an art, I don't know about such art, but what we could see these days, that we had one performance in front of the building again, or the Belgrade City Assembly, where on the eve of the New Year's Eve decorations, unfortunately, I apologize to all Serbian citizens, in the form of a male sex organ. That's their policy, that's what they're getting up to. That's them. Here are the pictures in front of the City Hall. Instead of the media, which, I say, favors them, condemning such an act, they still glorify it. These are the media that were present. What concerns are comments. I'm also ashamed to talk about these comments all the time, but I can set some aside - it's a gift to everyone in the Assembly, it's a wolf's head and beard... (President: I understand the broad interpretation of democracy, but please return to the agenda and not quote such statements. This is all the agenda and it concerns the citizens of Serbia, because they have led the state to bankruptcy and they wanted to establish such power and such a government that we would have problems again today and would not function. This is about the law that's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1915	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1916	The respected chairman, respected minister, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, public administration reform is a systematic and long-term process of transforming state public and local administration into an effective, responsible, transparent and reliable administration open to citizens in the decision-making process. Both you and your ministry, Mrs Obradovic, are waiting for a lot of obligations and work, and for the realization of the same you have the full support of us MPs from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, from the local self-government from which I come, and that is the municipality of Titel. Today, we are facing proposals for amending five laws, namely the Law on civil servants, on employees in public services, the Law on the Payments System of Public Sector Employees, on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the Autonomous province and units of local self-government and the Law on Salaries of Public Agency Employees and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. The public debate on the above draft laws, if I am not mistaken and I am not mistaken, was conducted from 12 November to 1 December 2020 and there were no proposals, suggestions, initiatives and comments on the texts of the draft law, other than the suggestions provided by the Single Organization of the Union of Employees in the Tax Administration of Serbia concerning the provisions of the Law on the Payments System which were not subject to an amendment of the law. I'd like to comment on article 63. A law on civil servants which provides for the obligation to conduct a public competition for admission to work for a certain period of time due to a temporary increase in the volume of work. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, which entered into force on 1 January 2019, established the obligation in question within the deadline of 1 January 2021. Furthermore, the same member is prescribed that an exceptional state body may take part in a working relationship for a specified period, due to the temporary increase in the volume of work without public competition, a person who participated in a public competition conducted by the state authority during the previous two years and met the criteria prescribed for the selection of that particular procedure, of course, if he meets the conditions for working in that workplace and has the necessary competences. The reasons for determining that delay are numerous and stemming from the complexity of the humane area itself, which is regulated by a number of legislative and sublegal regulations. First of all, it is necessary to establish an adequate record of candidates from the electoral lists who participated in the public competition and who met all the criteria for the election. Extremely strict and controlled employment conditions over the past two years have resulted in insufficient competition procedures. It also has a negative impact on the average length of the competitive procedure that can last for several months, especially in the conditions of the Kvid 19 pandemic, and this is also a small total number of candidates in the previous two years who have barely exceeded the number of perpetrators who have established a working relationship. On the other hand, taking into account the importance of human potential in each organisation and its conditionality by proper selection, especially in the conditions of the need that is caused by an increase in the volume of work the importance of this issue becomes evident. In all, it has a logical effect that data in sufficient scope can not be exhausted from the procedures carried out in order to establish an adequate record of candidates from the electoral lists participating in the public competition so that the Authority can hire a candidate for a specified time without carrying out an additional competition procedure. In view of the above, it is clear that the extension of the time limit set in the proposal is necessary and necessary because it would thus extend the period within which state authorities could establish a record of candidates to establish a working relationship for a certain period of time due to an increased volume of work from two to four years, and thus increase the choice of potential candidates to establish a working relationship at a certain time due to an increased volume of work, all in order to establish and maintain the effectiveness of the work process. Despite the biggest economic crisis ever, our country, that is, the president of the Republic of Serbia and the government, have managed to completely change the perception of our country. They found ways to react to the crisis, take over the biggest burden on themselves and show that Serbia is becoming both citizens and investors a reliable and stable partner. Respected citizens of Serbia, you are witnessing that when Serbia's largest work is being done and the most orchestrated attacks are made on the president of the state and government and on those who have ruined the economy, the economy, the health system, left people out of work, bought real estate, and the money stolen in their pockets. Serbia, despite the Kovid crisis, is going with an increase in pensions of 5.9% since 1 January 2021, as well as an increase in the minimum labour price of 6.6%, an increase in salaries for health workers by 5% and for the remaining 3.5%, with an additional 1.5% increase since April. With all this, we also have a reduction in the payload. Homes of health, hospitals, clinical centres, roads, railways are being restored. Is it possible to at all said so-called. "the opposition" remains Serbia's most terrible and vulgar attacks and insults those who bear the most difficult burden of growth and development? It's possible, dear citizens. They cannot reconcile that Serbia is heading ahead with the president and the SNS and is achieving excellent results in all areas of life on which they did not because of their own personal interests or trying to do something. I can't even imagine what would happen to Serbia, what would happen to the citizens, what would happen to us if we found this pandemic with the Kovida-19 virus at the time of the DS and the democratic government. For the end, while they lie, insult, invent, President Aleksandar Vukic brought "Tojo Tyres" to Serbia just a few days ago, opened two new Kovid hospitals in Batajnica and Krusevec. Many thanks to workers who worked day and night to complete these hospitals within a few months and to enable the treatment and rescue of the lives of a large number of our citizens. Serbia will end this year at an estimated 2.9 billion euros in foreign direct investment. That, respected citizens, is 63% of total investment in the entire Western Balkans. What does that tell us? He's telling us we're stable and we're attractive. Long live strong and stable Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1917	I thank the People's Messenger Vesni Knezevic. The next is MP Nikola Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1918	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, is the first thing I want to do is ask all citizens to adhere to epidemiological measures and thus preserve the health of all of us and relieve the health system. The reforms implemented have contributed to our increasing public sector wages today. From January 1st, healthcare workers will be raised by 5%, while others in the public sector will be increased by 3.5% on January 1st and 1.5% already from April 1st. The great success of the state is that in the middle of the global health crisis, we continue to continue to increase wages. It is just another proof that a successful state policy is being led towards citizens. The average salary today is around 530 euros, while during the former regime it was just over 200 euros. The average salary at the end of 2025 will be 900 euros and the average pension of 430 euros, as foreseen by the "Serbia 2025" investment plan. The minimum earnings in Serbia in 2012 amounted to around 15,000 dinars, but it will be more than 32,000 since 1 January 2021. The unemployment rate today is around 7%, and in 2012, the unemployment rate was 25.5%. Between 2008 and 2012, over half a million citizens were out of work in Serbia, but we know that the former regime's "political fossils" did not leave so empty pockets. These same people today want to get their hands on the state register again, probably get themselves another 100-square-square apartment. Of course, they wouldn't complain about any million in their pocket, 'cause it looks like those 619 million weren't enough. However, Serbian citizens saw all this and unfortunately had to feel it, so we showed them where they belong - in the dark political past. Today is more than ever a chance for young people. The indicator is just one of the Government of Serbia's "My First Salary", which allowed nearly 10,000 young people to get the ability to train for work, develop work skills and, of course, with financial compensation. What did they, the insatiable tycoons of the former regime, do for young people? They tried their best to leave the country for us to go bankrupt. They tried to empty all possible tills, and they also tried to leave us with no future. Of course, today's SNS led by President Alexander Vukic has provided a safe, stable and bright future for all citizens of this country. Repeatedly, as last time, that each time the state's success today represents one measure of failure of the former regime. For the political fossils of the former regime, I have one question – do you mind so much when we bring the truth here? You're obviously so affected by it, that you have to go through your own media, if they can even call themselves media, constantly to attack my colleagues. What did my colleagues and colleagues at our academy do to you? Because they're telling the truth? Because they bring up what you keep trying to hide? Remember, for the citizens of Serbia, you are only one ugly political past in this country and will remain that way. The surrender was never an option. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1919	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Adriana Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1920	The Honorable President of the Assembly, Vice-President, members of the presidency, respected minister with associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, and firstly respected citizens, in today's session, and on the basis of a proposal found on the agenda, we can see that the priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our president is to preserve jobs, support for employment, increase in earnings and pensions, support for the private sector, maintain dynamic investment activities, but also to successfully implement a strategy of dinarisation based on memorandas, which will continue, even in times of crisis caused by the Kovid 19 pandemic, stabilisation of the exchange rate and contribute to reducing the exposure of the economy, population and the state of currency risk. As the brotherly, friendly relations between the state of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of France and the People's Republic of China have just been shown by our President Aleksandar Vukic, and that no investor has given up on coming and investing in the Republic of Serbia. Given the fact that friendship between the Republic of France and the city of Bora, thanks to the Bora mine, lasts for a full 116 years with special satisfaction, I will support the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of implementing priority projects in the Republic of Serbia. How much friendship with the French people also tells the fact that a French company of pine mines with the French bank "Mirabo" was formed in Bor in 1904 until 1915. That's when the Bulgarians come. The Germans gave them the Borski mine until 1918. In 1919, the French society took over the mine again and managed it until 1941. The French came to Bor and found wooden houses, built of locks, covered with boards, and then the reconstruction and construction of buildings that are still being used as housing units, as well as locals of different purposes began. What is the importance of the Bora facilities, whose construction was funded by the French, also said their cultural and historical not only, but also their current intentions such as the Mining-metallurical faculty, the General Hospital building, the directorate of the then French Bora Mines Society, today's RBB Directorate, and by finding a Chinese strategic partner and retaining the control package of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today's Directorate of the Bora Mine "Serbian Zijin Koper d.o.o." Bor. This great and sincere friendship has come to an end - the city of Bor is accompanied by the French city of Cresola. Cooperation was seen through exchanges of experiences in the fields of culture, technology, tourism, sports, but also through exchange of students, professors, students and workers. One of them was my grandfather, Knezevic, who brought wonderful experience from the mines in Kresol, but also decided to return and continue life and work in the Borski mine. Look at the old friendship this is with the French people. To preserve and improve co-operation with the president, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will also contribute to what is most sacred to us, for our children, who will also support the draft laws that took place on the agenda of today's session between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of France, the People's Republic of China, the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, through a project of building a Belgrade subway and automation of the electricity distribution network in the Republic of Serbia, and through other priority projects, such as establishing more efficient air traffic. With a desire to find many bilateral and multilateral agreements on granting co-operation in different areas in the new 2021 agenda, I welcome you on behalf of the residents of the Borski Management District, on your personal behalf, as well as on behalf of the people of the city of Bor, with a mining greeting – Good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1921	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1922	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Dear Minister, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a set of laws ahead of us, but in my address, I will commit myself to the law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Unified Bank for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica project. It is a project that is priority for Serbia and will be implemented in three stages. The first stage is the construction of a section of the highway in the length of nearly 22km from Ruma to Šapac, the second phase is the construction of a bridge across the Sava River near the town of Sapac and the third stage is the construction of a fast traffic station from Sapac to Loznica in the length of nearly 55km. This credit to the Uni Credit Bank, the Republic of Serbia, takes an amount of 11 billion 288 million 640 000 and it is a loan that we receive in dinars under very favourable conditions. The annual interest rate is 2.7%, plus the three-month belibera, which at the moment I think is something below 1% and 0.9%, and I'll be corrected by the gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance if I'm wrong. What is very important is that this loan starts with payment only after the grace period has expired after, Serbia said, the beginning period, which ends on December 31st, 2022. So, the first war comes toll only on June 30th 2023 and will be paid off in semi-annual annuities. This is very important because the first two years we have as a grace period will not create any additional burden at least not in moments when we are struggling with the health and economic crisis caused by the Kovid 19 virus. The importance of this project is very important for Serbia as well as for the Mačvanski and Sremski district and for more than 600,000 citizens who will be associated with the rest of Vojvodina, but the importance of this project is also that this Western part of Serbia connects with the region, and especially with BiH. All of us, my dear colleagues and fellow MPs, know how much investment infrastructure means. Good road infrastructure, highways, roads, fast traffic are one of the grounds for attracting investment, and hence for developing a country. We were able to build over 350 kilometers of highway in the previous period. Not 30, not 50, but 350 kilometers of highways. That's how much nobody's built in the last 70 years. We have also managed to build over 500km of regional roads and many fast traffic and on the continent, and everything else we have done in the past few years we have managed to bring Serbia to the level of being an attractive investment market. In 2018 and 2019, Serbia was the leader in the region by the number of direct foreign investment attracted, and more than all of the former Yugoslav republics combined. If we take into account the fact that we have one Croatia in the neighborhood, we have one Slovenia, which are EU members, you must admit that this result is really impressive. Even in this 2020, when the whole world faces one of the largest health and economic crises caused by the pandemic of the virus, Kovid-19, we are recording a direct and drastic increase in the inflow of foreign direct investment, which this year will reach a level of 2.9 billion euros, so 2.9 billion euros, which accounts for over 60% of all attracted foreign direct investment in this region. I also look forward to the fact that, in addition to all the money we invest in health care, in our health care system, in order to cope with this pandemic as quickly as possible, and to protect both the health and the lives of our citizens. We continue to invest in both our economy and our economy. Three hundred thirty billion will be invested in 2021 and capital investments, in the construction of new highways, in the construction of new fast traffic stations, new schools, hospitals, health homes, because we do not want this crisis that has hit us to slow us down, we want to continue to invest in our country's development. Unfortunately, when I talk about all this, I can't help but mention the fact that there are a lot of those who criticise everything we do for the citizens of Serbia and for our Serbia. These gentlemen, the experts, from the opposition, which I am not going to list individually, I have decided to call them 619 and the company in such short terms, well, that Mr. 619 and the company are disturbing that 330 billion dinars will be allocated to capital investments in the 2021 budget. The same gentlemen are bothered that we are so in debt that we will bring the citizens of Serbia into the so-called city. debt slavery and that they will live from year to year harder and harder. That's what those who were in charge of hand and hat tell us. They were in debt to pay salaries and pensions, not to do something good for this country, but to try every possible way to keep them in power for a little while longer. That's what those who have led this country to the brink of bankruptcy, those who have left this country with an empty pension fund, those who have recorded only inflation growth and only unemployment rates, and about wages, pensions, the citizens' standard of living that I don't even talk about. Look at the wonders of these 619 gentlemen and the company, today they know what to do and how to do. I ask them a question, my dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, what are all these brilliant ideas that are coming to them today, why didn't you realize these ideas while you were in power? Why didn't you build more highways, why didn't you open more factories, why didn't you worry about your citizens at the time, why didn't you raise your salaries and pensions? You're not, for one simple reason, that when you were in power, you were in charge of only one principle, and that's how to fill your own pockets. In all that greed, which reigned among you, you even trampled among yourselves, trampled on each other, but that's not so bad, yet you know each other best, the most terrible thing is that in all that greed you took away from each other from the citizens of Serbia. Not only did you not open the factories, not only did you not build anything, but you managed to destroy everything that you touched, and everything you failed to destroy, you ruined to the extent that you later sold all those factories and companies to your friends for a lot of money, and of course, with the fat compensation that went into your pocket. At the time, you didn't care about the citizens of Serbia, you didn't care about your crying children, because parents don't have money for new shoes, they don't have the money to buy new books, they don't have the money to send them on a trip, and they don't have exactly why you closed down factories where they made fair money on their bread. You do so today to criticize and preach without any shame. Fortunately, Serbian citizens see well who has been fighting for them all these years and who are working exclusively in the interests of them and in the interests of our Serbia. That is why, from the election to the election of the SNS headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, it is becoming more and more supportive, as it is another piece of evidence that we are leading one responsible, serious labour policy and fight to create a better future for our citizens, a better future for this country. Even in this year, in this difficult year, in this health, economic crisis that has hit the whole world, we have received truly incredible support from over two million Serbian citizens. That's why I thank them so much. It's just another incentive for us to keep fighting, keep working and keep creating a better future for them. No matter how much you call it. The opposition experts attack without arguments, no matter how many lies, slanders, no matter how many cases they invent, no matter how insulting my fellow MPs by their televisions, by their newspapers, portals, they cannot hide the fact that Serbia today is a country on the right track, that Serbia today is the country that records Europe's biggest economic growth, and at the moments of this severe health and economic crisis, a country that records the slightest decline in economic growth in Europe. To live better in Serbia today, that wages and pensions are higher, that the unemployment rate is at a historic minimum, that we are leaders in the region by the number of direct foreign investments attracted and that all of Serbia is being built. From the northern border to the southern border, you have a construction site across Serbia today. Even the south of Serbia and my Vranje, from which I came for many years, was the last hole in any government. No one in southern Serbia, Vranje, Leskovac, Nis has paid as much attention as SNS since coming to power in 2012. That is why all Serbia is developing evenly today, and all thanks to the SNS-led policy and policy led by our President Aleksandar Vukic. I'm telling all these opposition experts that every single dollar that we as a state invest in our country's development was from our own incomes as a state, he was from the credit we take, he was only in one direction, only to achieve one goal, which is to create a better future for our country, a better future for our citizens, and we're going to fight for it forever and no matter what. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1923	The word has a folk MP, Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1924	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France signed an agreement on strategic partnership and co-operation. Both sides are currently co-operating in the realisation of certain projects, with regard to building a Belgrade subway and automating power grid management through the automation of a medium voltage distribution network in the Republic of Serbia. The first is expected to be co-operation in the first phase of the Belgrade Metro project, with a maximum value of 450m euros. By introducing a general automation of Serbian power grid management at a maximum value of 127m euros. The financial support of the Belgrade Metro project consists of a direct loan from the French vault amounting to a maximum of 80m euros in bank credit guaranteed by the French bank for the account and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, up to 374m euros. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France have committed that projects covered by this agreement do not lead to corruption. This agreement further encourages economic exchange and economic development of Serbia. The agreement was signed on 26 November 2020. On behalf of the Serbian government, he was signed by Finance Minister Sinisha Malo. The building of the subways will begin in the railroad. There will be two lines, the first from Železnik to Mirijev, the first stage to the Pančeva Bridge, a length of 21.3 km and 23 stations. The second line is from Zemun to Miriev, a length of 19.2 km and 20 stations. Agreements on co-operation with Chinese and French companies working on the project will be signed in January 2021. The works in the Maquis field should start at the end of next year. Building infrastructure, one of Serbia's absolute priorities. Belgrade Metro will be the largest and hardest infrastructure project, with its value twice as high as Belgrade-Budapest's fast track. The Belgrade Metro project is worth four billion euros, the first line 1.8 billion euros, the second 2.2 billion euros. Alstom company will operate electric trains, wagons, rails, complete electronic power supply, i.e. It's the metro's equipment. Construction works will be done by China's Power Tea company, around 70% of the jobs, while the other 30 will work by the French company. The French government has provided financial resources for their company under the most favourable conditions, while the Chinese government will provide for the part of the job done by Power Teana. The Belgrade Metro has been promised for 50 years. It was announced in 2008, 2009, 2010, in 2012, and a Belgrade Metro project was relaunched during President Emmanuel Macron's visit to Serbia. We witness a lot of crowds every day, even though infrastructure is being done, and constructions of boulevards, bypasses are being done, some streets are spreading. However, it has not yet produced some effect on the reduction of crowds. The Belgrade subway will improve the transport of citizens, will be more environmentally acceptable and will visibly relieve traffic jams in the city centre. The first line starts from Makish and goes across the Železnik, Banov hill, descends to Šecerana, goes along the Radnica street, then Savski and comes to the Sava Square, where it intersects with the second line. It goes further to the Republic Square, Lucy Belgrade, Adi Huji, Karaburmi and Mirieva. The second line starts from Zemun train station and goes to Miriev. Two more lines of "BG trains" are being made, will connect part of the Zemun railway station to the national stadium, then to the airport "Nikola Tesla", the Centre of Surcin and Obrenovac. As we're used to, everything that's being built, and it's being built, everything that the previous regime hasn't even started, and he didn't even bother to finish what it started, of course, because he couldn't, because he didn't finish filling their wallets, now the Belgrade subway isn't good, it's expensive, he doesn't need citizens of Belgrade, probably because there aren't any of them and their consulting houses. It's not a good thing that an artist of the world's vote decides to return to his country, but not just because he loves his country, and he's not as good at it as he is at it. Stefan Milenkovic returned to Serbia, with a desire to realize his dream, and he is to make Serbia like a small, large violin superpower. Stefan Milenkovic, as the creative ambassador of the National Platform "Serbia Creates", will also assist the work of the Foundation "Fundation 2021" and will be involved in the educational work of the Academy of Arts in Novi Sad. Very soon, this celebrated violinist, who has been behind him for 30 years of his international career, became an advanced violinist and probably a second-class artist. The hate speech, the insult, the humiliation, it never stops. Every day it is growing stronger and stronger and more brutally, that our president and his family, children, without saving even the youngest child, the attacks did not fall behind on our young MPs who are and will be Serbia's future. Successful young people, lawyers, economists, doctors, science doctors, opposition leaders at an opposition site fighting these young people for better tomorrow represent: “This is not a circus now. An exercise machine of young clones was introduced in the congregation, which seemed to have been trained at some idiot academy, without their own words, repeating one and the same attacks countless times. Those with best grades are prepared to pass out with some papers above all glorify their leader, Alexander Vukic. When it's done, the Dragan Gilas demonization team starts. Boring, repeating the same ghastly attacks. That's an order. Gilas must be demonized. You must be celebrating the Wolf. This is what young and new forces from special schools are doing in which Fascist barbaria is being educated. Someone will say I use too many words. I say that fascists, fools and fools, because everyone has to speak by order, to raise their leader to heaven, and to madness spit on his enemy. These fools were chosen to be MPs in a degree of indifference and obedience. “ All of you who are primarily honorable people, loyal to your country, good, decent young people, have your political commitment, fight primarily for Serbia, for your party and for your president, Alexander Vukic, are represented by some as fascists. But I always like to say -- Serbia is eternal while her children are faithful. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1925	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ilija Matejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1926	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Obradovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and, most importantly, the peoples of the Republic of Serbia, if I were to comment briefly on this set of laws that we are talking about today, I would say we are delaying the reform of the salaries of employees in public institutions because of this global disaster that has affected all of us. In my view, this is quite a logical consequence and the state must first of all be financially consolidated in order to implement the reform. What is most important to our people is that from next year, all these public institutions will be free to decide on their employment. The only restriction they will have will be that they will be able to employ up to 70% of the people who left those institutions last year, and for all of this they will have to ask for consent from the government's commission. Also, what is important for our citizens is that at this moment, when all the countries of the world freeze salaries for employees and reduce them to consolidate, the Republic of Serbia raises salaries to employees in public institutions by 5% next year, and those who have fought the most against this pandemic, our doctors and medical workers for the entire 10%. I know that we thanked medical workers and doctors a thousand times in words, but we are very glad to thank them and to increase their wages, because this shows that the state is thinking of them, thus showing that we want them to stay here to work and thus ensure a better and safer future for our country. We've told them a thousand times thanks, but I'd like to thank another group of people from this public pay phone, and these are our farmers. You know, these farmers work hard all year. Some of them work all year long to buy only one chain of land and to expand their agricultural households a little more. They often come to my office with their dirty hands, straight from the field, and they still apologize to me for their hands being dirty, and I always tell them a sentence my father taught me, which is that it doesn't matter if your hands are dirty from work, it's important that your cheek is clean. You know, when this pandemic started and we all rushed to the shops to buy some basic groceries they were the most responsible for Serbia's lack of anything during this pandemic, although we say for Kosovo and Metohija that the heart of Serbia is proud to say here that farmers are our country's lungs and I'm glad to have them for clients, associates, and, of course, friends. Let's get back to this salary hike. We've heard in the media that this salary hike is not good. In order to increase it even more, although they didn't do it when they could, as it's not done on real grounds, how we do it as an election campaign, although there's no election anywhere, but yesterday while I was doing free legal aid, one of my colleagues quoted Herman Hesse, who described them well, says, "It's hard for people to think, so they condemn. "What is most important is that every normal citizen of the Republic of Serbia will realize that at the moment when everyone reduces wages, the state of Serbia increases them and thus we see that we are thinking about that little man, that we care about him. The people see that we are fighting, working for them, and stop feeling forgotten and neglected about how it used to feel and I am very glad that the love for the Republic of Serbia has returned to this Parliament since 2012. You know, Minister, these are the nicest topics for me. This is why I deal with politics. I believe that for a political person, there is no greater joy, not when he earns something from politics, but when he does something for his country, when something remains behind his mandate, as this salary increase will remain behind us. Even though I'm too young to share any advice, any advice, if it's the star of leadership for all of us in this business, we're just going to make sure that our country continues to make progress as it has done so far. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1927	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1928	Thank you. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we have had the opportunity to hear in previous presentations, one of the topics of today's plenary is redefine the legal deadlines for applying a set of laws concerning wages in the public sector. The reasons for the postponement of these laws are justified in view of the complexity of the public sector wage process. So the reform concerns as many as 400,000 employees in various institutions, so those employed by state authorities, public agencies, as well as local self-government units. What is the objective of these laws is that after their application we have an uncontested principle that will be brought to life, which is the principle – the same salary for the same job. It is therefore important to determine who pays are low, whose salaries are high and that, on the basis of the most justified criteria, the complexity of the work being carried out, as well as the responsibilities and risks that work carries to determine the pay classes for each job individually. Also, what is very important for the application of these laws is to carry out a detailed analysis of the budgeting of funds, as well as an analysis of their impact on the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia. These laws are also part of the reform and modernisation of public administration that should lead to further professionalisation and more efficient work of administration. So, the administration is exactly the force that enforces the regulations and with the help that citizens exercise their rights. The second segment of the modernisation of the public administration that I want to highlight here today is the introduction of an electronic administration, as well as the integration of an electronic database that will allow citizens in one place to exercise all their rights and obligations to public authorities. This kind of project is already being implemented in certain municipalities on our country's territory. Here, in the municipality of Raca, in the municipality from which I came last Monday with the presence of the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, this unique administrative place was introduced. So Raca municipality is among the first 11 municipalities and cities in Serbia, which thanks to its sufficient capacities, thanks to its earlier development of services it has provided for its citizens to provide such a modern and useful place for all administrative services. I thank you, Minister, on my own behalf and on behalf of all my fellow citizens, since I come from the Municipality of Rač, for such a gift, because I am sure that in all the places where it is opened, a unique administrative place will save all the citizens a lot of time and money, and certainly also the nerves that, in these difficult times, you will agree that no one has any history. So the bill that we are discussing today is another evidence in a series of ways that the state of Serbia takes care of every citizen. Why didn't we have laws like this before protecting workers' rights? By 2012, in a sea of fired and unemployed people, no one had thought to discuss, let alone pass such laws. People worked for a salary of 15,000 dinars, as much as the minimum labour price at that time, only to manage to feed their families. Unlike then 25% of unemployment in 2020, we were able to reach never a lower unemployment rate, a whole historical 7.3%. So I'll repeat, 7.3%. The minimum labour price today is over 32,000 dinars. So, this single-digit unemployment is not a product and is not responsible for making one decision or one law, but it is the result and result of solely responsible and fundamental work on various segments, both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and our President Alexander Vukic. Today we are not just talking about reducing unemployment, we are also talking about improving working conditions. So, the picture of Serbia in 2020 was drastically changed compared to the one that was present in 2012. Also, the topics have changed. In 2012, we were occupied by preserving the state from, possibly, bankruptcy, and today in 2020, we are talking about never a higher economic growth rate, which our country managed to achieve in these times of crisis. Since 2014, Serbia has started a new phase in its development, all thanks to current President Aleksandr Vukic. What we were afraid of, the 2000 robbery, whether or not we're going to get paid, is definitely not the case anymore. Serbian citizens know that they are now living in a stable and healthy Serbia, and only one of the evidence is the adoption of the development budget, which we adopted here in the Assembly two weeks ago. At the very end, by countering everything I have said, and certainly, aware of all the consequences that the Corona virus carries with it, and thus making it difficult for all public sector subsystems to function, I support the commitment to leave more time for the application of these sets of public sector wages laws, so that there are no negative consequences, both for the budget of the Republic of Serbia and for all those employed in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1929	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1930	The Honorable chairman, a respected minister with associates, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is today ahead of us a set of laws that essentially move to start some important reforms for 2022. All these laws should make significant changes, both when it comes to the organisation of public services itself and when it comes to financing them, so we must also stress that all these laws are in line with the EU legal legislation, the laws that are now in front of the MPs of the National Assembly are being delayed by the changes in the legal solutions mentioned in the year and are expected to be applied for 2022. Wise and responsible people hardly need any explanation, but still in the light of the laws mentioned, it clearly states that the Kovida-19 epidemic has made it impossible or at least significantly difficult to co-operate intensively with all participants in the immediate application of the reforms mentioned. For this reason, the focus of public sector employees this year, and it will likely be part of next year, until some time this collective immunity to this disease is acquired, is on stopping the current epidemic and implementing the necessary measures to protect the population, the organisation of life in conditions imposed by the pandemic. In a situation where public life is important against pandemic measures, as serious and responsible people, we need to commit ourselves and to change the adopted public service reforms when Kovid-19 is behind us, and for all that time, besides the criticisms that we are exposed to daily, which come from those who are bothered that Serbia is fighting these problems the best way, this ruling nomenclature will best fight all problems by looking to get out of them as little damage as possible. However, what I would like to look back on, and what I am deeply concerned about as a citizen of this country, is the next fact. I understand that from some countries in the environment, politically correctly speaking, they do not have a very friendly attitude towards us and our country. There are orchestrated attacks coming in every day. I understand and understand when a certain Boris Dežulovic says Belgrade is a cassaba, says Dubai is for the poor and that that fantastic monument to Stefan Nemanja is a fake bronze Baron Minhauzen or a certain Croatian journalist, columnist and writer Jurica Pavlicic says Belgrade reminds him of a picture from the nightmare. Or when respected President Milo Djukanovic, the president of our brother Montenegro, by yesterday's declaration of member of the Serbian people, today of Montenegro, who knows who tomorrow, says that the sole culprit for defeating his political options in the immediate final elections is Vukic and Serbia and blames them for defeating his policies, forgetting that our president did not by any word, not by a single word, nor by a comma reacting to the elections in his country, unlike some others, such as Prime Minister Edi Rama, but, of course, no one has convicted him. Or when the distinguished Mrs. Madeline Albright again sends messages that she will now intervene in the negotiations between Serbs and Albanians to resolve Kosovo and Metohija's status, of course, not keeping her essential account of the well-being of our two peoples who are more difficult, as we can see by this dialogue and visionary initiatives, such as Little Shengen, mutual reconciliation, because that reconciliation for all of them who essentially care about so-called. The well-being of our people, under quotes, was a disastrous defeat. This reconciliation between our two peoples would escape the chess board on which geopolitical forces have been working for centuries, caring only for their own interests. I don't want to list countless other attacks on our country. That's why I'm not too worried, like all of us. Who, for God's sake, is happy if Serbia has the lowest GDP drop in Europe of 1%, which is not us, but the most relevant international institutions dealing with finance or if Serbia has the most investment in the region, if it builds roads, if it strengthens our army, if it wins in other fields, and not just, as we're used to, in sports. If even this health crisis, caused by this epidemic, we build hospitals, we save people, we have far less infected and fatal cases than many developed countries in the region and in the world, or who is glad that in the course of this epidemic, Serbia can be praised by opening a factory of one of the most successful companies in the world, Japan's Tojo Tyres, which will employ thousands of people in Serbia and for years contribute to the development of our economy? Of course, no one, dear friends. These insults and abusive words, among other things, show that we are on the right track, on the path of progress and success, and that as a citizen of this country can only flatter me. Let them attack us, and we will wisely defend our interests in the most peaceful, peaceful way, with all the legal and legitimate diplomatic means, with the hand of friendship, help and mutual respect to all who want it. We would be very happy to welcome you to our dear Belgrade, to admire what you are mocking in your columns, portals and social networks as you enjoy the walk of our promenades, while enjoying our hospitality and our last friendly atmosphere and security, the kind we can't often hope for when we come to your guests, because you don't rarely break down our windshields and write down some nasty stuff just because we have Serbian plates on our cars, but, my God, that's where we're different. What bothers me is the next fact. In addition to all these attacks from abroad that do not shake any of us excessively at last in this game called politics, everyone is trying to impose and achieve their interests, but our party, this ruling coalition and the president of the state attack every day by our citizens, individuals from the opposition, individual members of the so-called so-called. intellectual elites, who, in dealing with their political inexorables, use such disgusting words, that I am ashamed to say or those who have lived for years to harm their people, by calling for already stalemate, boring flossules, which are already like mantras, such as liberal world views, as a certain freedom of opinion, but also some twisted form of patriotism that is known to them, while apriors condemning any move that this government makes, not thinking or not considering that it may be something good. Well, can it be said that it's bad if the temple of St. Sava ends and that fantastic mosaic or if a hospital is built? Well, I guess that shouldn't be condemned either, or when these same people attack us three months ago, that we're fascist government, because we're depriving our citizens of free movement, wouldn't we save them by introducing a state of emergency, and then in two months, the same thing tells you that we're not able to participate in the deprivement of our citizens' lives because we can't put in a state of emergency? What I'm trying to say is that in our history, the Serbian people have been significantly weaker because we were divided, and in the end, we all suffered a number of conventions together. I understand that the basic goal of dealing with policies is to conquer and retain power, but we as a people must finally define what are the essential interests of Serbia over which we must integrate together and about which we must not have disputed points, that we, by common forces, all of us as one, and the position and opposition, and the Academy of Science and members of the intellectual and cultural elite and the Serbian Orthodox Church, are complex in solving the burning problems that have now hit us or that will hit us in the future. I am aware that there are people who have different ideas, different attitudes and thinking, but can't be in moments and in a fair fight for the essential interests of Serbia, such as the question of KIM, such as the issue of the position of Serbs in the region or the rescue of the lives of our citizens during this epidemic, everyday being against their country or who is currently in power, not taking into account the fact that in the course of that struggle to get to power, often the truths, such as that the health system has broken down, I end up with the Honorable chairman, and by the way, that it is not true or many other things that I would like to say, but I don't have more time. I understand a lot of people disagree. I understand they think they know better, which is absolutely legitimate, but they finally had their chance. They had not had a number of years in power and failed to show that they were right, but please don't, gentlemen, keep a side of those who have never treated Serbia well and did not think well, to be against their people and states when the most important state interests are at stake. We will then be much weaker and more vulnerable because of you and instead of achieving what the great Suleiman the Great feared when he said – God forbid that the Serbs agree, but that we finally agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1931	I thank you Since the time has elapsed for the parliamentary groups, does anyone else on behalf of the group, the president, come forward? No, I don't. ) The speech has a representative of the promoter, Minister Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1932	Thank you, Mr. President. Just for a little while, this is a summary and to apologize if someone accidentally resented that I didn't comment on your presentations today, because somehow it would sound better when you comment on the bill's proposals like this, and most of the time there was support, but there were several interesting, constructive criticisms about what might be better, what we should think about during this period while we delayed the application of the law, which relates to that complex part of the adoption of sublaws and other regulations that will follow the implementation of this law. I really want to thank you. We have listened carefully to your presentations regarding this set of laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State and local self-government, but also these other four laws. What is one line that runs in most of the exposure is this strong solidarity and empathy with indeed all citizens and with the complete society in which the Republic of Serbia was found during this outbreak of Kovid-19. What would be my conclusion after today's discussion, I'd like everyone with that impression and get out of this room, that we haven't given up on the reform and introduction of the pay grade. Profits and employment in the state sector have really significant and economic and social implications. The state is the largest employer in Serbia's economy. It employs nearly half a million people, close to a quarter of the registered employment in the Republic of Serbia, and that is why this set of laws is so important. The suspension of the application of these laws for a year, for January 2022, will not be a waste of time for us. By the start of application, we will step up meetings and communication on reform processes with all parts of the public sector. It really takes a consensus of all participants in the reform. If we want to keep the highest quality people in the public sector, then it is clear to all of us that we really need a fair way of estimating their work and the government of the Republic of Serbia will work intensively to do so. We may have really allowed the crown to drain us economically and organisationally, but what's most important didn't beat us. This health crisis has shown how much we need a highly motivated worker and in the public administration, of course, in the first place in health care and education. Kovid-19 has really made it very difficult for all institutions to function, reduced the public sector's capacity for reform, as primary engagement was only one suppression of the epidemic. The need to implement a public sector wage reform is seen in our commitment to equating different salaries for the same jobs in different parts of the public sector and regardless of our budget stay for 2021, an increase in earnings is planned. Health care professionals received a 10% increase at the very beginning of the epidemic and since January 2021 it will be another 5%, which cumulatively, if we look at 2018, and look back at March 2021, it will be about 50% for individual health employees. In the end, something quite human and from a member of the crisis staff at the moment. Please, and you who are present in the hall, as well as the citizens who are following us, respect the measures and recommendations of the Crisis Staff, discipline, the responsible relationship with all measures is the only way to get out of the epidemic as soon as possible and to be among the countries that have been vaccinated and who have returned to a regular course as quickly as possible, because that is the only thing that we need to get back to normal economic and economical flows at this moment. Thank you very much for your support during today and all that needs to become our new greeting – stay healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1933	Thank you. I'd like you to listen to me in a few more sentences. I thank Minister Obradovic. I would only ask her as a longtime politician, and so did Minister Ruzic, and I will say here in front of all of you, what logic is that that the assistant secretary general of the National Assembly has a higher salary than the president of the National Assembly and of the MPs? What logic does it make that ministerial assistants have more salaries than ministers or cabinet heads? That doesn't make any sense. Those chosen by the people - the President of the Republic, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... I understand that this is justice by different laws that apply to civil servants, officials, officials, tenants, but what doesn't make sense, believe your eyes and change the laws. I'm telling you this as a man who's been through all this for 30 years. It's always been like that, you've never had to do anything, you've got full support for something like that. So I'm not talking about the secretary general, I'm not talking about the deputy secretary general, I'm talking about the assistant secretary general who has a salary, I asked Branko if he didn't lie to me, 130,000. How much do you as MPs have to pay? So, I speak for myself, I'm not looking for him now, nor is he guilty. They're probably so legal with me, and here are some ministerial assistants, so I don't ask them how much they pay now because I know. They had a higher salary than I did when I was a minister, and now they have a higher salary than Maria. It's an anomaly, just like I think it's an anomaly that bosses so-called. "independent bodies" have two, three, four, five times the salary of the President of the Republic or MPs in the National Assembly. I'm not saying MPs are ideal, but they're chosen by the people. No, I got too carried away, I don't want to go any further, but I thank the minister, and she'll probably answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1934	Thank you, Chairman. You have asked a lot of questions and opened an interesting topic that is often present in our public and journalists look forward to such exhibitions as yours. I can only tell you my personal impression that it's an extraordinary honor for me because for the first time in my life, I'm a member of the government of my country and for me, really, financial compensation is not a priority at this point, but maybe I'm one of the few. What you're talking about requires a serious debate in society, there are things that are really in place that you said, but you're aware that these few questions really require some serious political analysis, the participation of different factors, a lot of political will, one interesting and other maybe atmosphere in our society, but somehow for me it's not the right time, that in which we should withdraw these topics when we're fighting for people's lives, when we're fighting for the economy to somehow work in regular flows. In any case, the salaries of state officials and politicians were always an interesting topic. I'm still young, for the first time a politician, a young politician, a young minister, so money is not a priority for me this time. It's really an honor and a great responsibility to be in this place, but when I'm long enough in the executive power, like you, I might think differently. Well, let's leave room for that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-22-0.u1935	Thank you, Minister. I just want to tell you that I didn't run this topic, but you've proposed laws, and since you've proposed those laws, I have to tell you what I said and I'm not saying it for money, I'm talking about integrity. Then next time, you and I can run for Assistant Secretary General or the President of the Fiscal Council or something else. That's what I'm talking about, the integrity of the function that we're doing and the illogicality of the fifth people in the system having higher salaries than the first. That's what it's all about. Of course, I agree that this is something that needs to be addressed to the issues of the system of pay grade in general, but then there must be everyone, not to be the exception of those who bear the greatest responsibility. At the very end, let me say that today at the college we agreed that, since there are no amendments, there will be no debate in particular, I would like to thank the Minister for the presence, because he will not come to another part of the debate in detail, because there will be no debate, the agreement is that tomorrow we continue the debate on these proposals for election decisions regarding the judiciary, on the matter of the Commission for Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, and that we will begin the debate on the code of conduct of the MPs, which we will conclude on Thursday and according to good practice that it is not Christmas Eve and that, roughly, we will try, will depend on all of us, to try to close the vote sometime to two, three hours. By probably voting on these electoral issues tomorrow, because when the National Assembly performs an electoral function then the vote can be held independently of the voting day. Since Palma was talking about it today and he rightly said that we are discussing the code of conduct of the MPs, I must say that he was right when he said that the code of conduct of those who are not MPs, we are witnesses, I thought there was some bottom, but we saw yesterday that moral bottom was almost gone. We had a situation yesterday for a 76-year-old woman, the mother of President Vukic, Angelina Vukic, who I know independent of Alexander Vukic, that someone for such a woman who was a prominent journalist, who is a mother, said that she was a prostitute, did not use the word that was stated because it is not like the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that those who politically support you are silent. This is not a matter of political attitude, because Angelina Vukic is not involved in politics. It's about proscration, insolence, and it's really a shame. All those who keep quiet about it essentially support one such treatment of political opponents. In the end, it's an insult to all mothers, you know that mother is sacred, I'm talking, everyone's mother is not just a wolf. That's why I'm saying Dostoyevsky said that where there is no God, everything is allowed for a man, including a mother's slander. That's why I finally wanted to say that our message is the condemnation of one of these behaviors, and that's why I think it's obvious that the code is needed not only for the behaviour of the MPs, but above all in a political life where everything is clearly allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 98, I hereby conclude the principle of a single search. Since we have conducted a review of the bill in principle, since there are no amendments, we will decide only on the proposals of the law in general when the day of the vote is due. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 71 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 134 MPs present at this time, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan M. Markovic, Đuro Peric and Dr. Vesna Ivkovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 10 to 18 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure have been invited to attend the sittings of Aleksandar Pantic, election member of the Supreme Council of the Judges, Tatjan Lagumdzija, election member of the State Council of Prosecutors and Natasa Djelic, head of the Department of Status Affairs, judge of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 10 to 18 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you, what you all know is that the total time for debates for parliamentary groups is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of that group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on the consolidated agenda from points 10 to 18. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
