ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1651	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr. Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, friends and comrades, I want to thank you for the attention and patience with which you approach every legislative proposal and discussion that we will, I'm sure, lead. I would like to express my great satisfaction that today we will discuss confirming the international agreement on amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of our citizens. The initiative launched by President Aleksandar Vucic is an initiative that changes the lives of residents of the Balkans for the better. In our history, there were politicians who had the courage to say -- Balkan Balkans. Because of that sentence, many have paid with both life and political future. President Vukic had the courage to repeat this sentence and say -- Balkan Balkans. What we're going to discuss today is our need for our region to be free of any obstacles when it comes to human communication, the smooth flow of goods, the smooth flow of investment. The Balkans are not too much space. It's not a place where such obstacles are needed. The Balkans are not such a big place that we Balkans living on it would not understand and not understand the need to cooperate as closely as possible, as often as possible. Those who do not believe in Serbia are attacking the bill. Those who think Serbia's integrated power is smaller and weaker than Albania or other countries in the Balkans, are attacking the agreement. This is Serbia's way of saying it's strong, it's economically developed and has more to offer to others than it can or should receive from others. Only one who does not believe in Serbia does not believe in the possibility of the flow of people and the flow of goods. What could be in our way in this agreement? That people are free to move? Investments coming? That our business people travel easier and simpler, work, earn, hire? What can bother us? Only one who does not believe in Serbia's power can fear our opening and faster flow of people and capital. President Aleksandar Vukic had the courage to say – to the Balkan Balkans, and I ask you to support that sentence, to revive it, and to bring Serbia's strong Serbian politics, a policy that affects its neighbours, the policy of Serbia with which it is worth the best possible relations, support it at today's session and tell all Serbian citizens that this is good news. I would like to inform you that, at today's session of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, appropriate acts are being adopted under which this procedure will also be possible by the competent authorities of the Republic of Albania and this should, by their laws, take effect, to be in office, 15 days after the decision has been taken. It is up to us to do what is good for the citizens of Serbia, it is up to us to do what is good for Serbs, wherever they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1652	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1653	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, honourable gentlemen and ladies of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, two other legislative proposals are on the agenda today. The first proposal refers to a guarantee scheme, i.e. the Law on the Confirmation of a Guarantee Scheme. The guarantee scheme towards business banks is otherwise part of a major economic aid package for our economy with which the government of the Republic of Serbia came out in March, April of this year. Together with business banks, we have defined a total aid package when it comes to a two billion-euro guarantee scheme. I want to inform you that by the end of November about 20,000 loans have already been granted, paid. The total amount of money paid is a billion and 480m euros. The law here before you refers to an extension of the term of validity of the guarantee scheme for another six months. In fact, we have defined two billion euros to be given in favourable, cheap loans, loans guaranteed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and guaranteed by the state of Serbia, to be given to micro-small and medium-sized enterprises, since not all the money is spent by the end of this year, we want to extend the period of validity of this guarantee scheme to another six months. That is the essence of this law that is before you today. Otherwise, to take advantage of the opportunity, apart from the guarantee scheme, our businessmen could count, they could still count on cheap loans at the rate of 1% through the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the total aid package is somewhere worth over 700 billion dinars. So, huge, huge aid, over six billion euros, which the state of Serbia has taken on itself and through various kinds of help, to remind you, from paying the minimum wage, from the delay in paying taxes and contributions, from paying 100 euros to all our full-time citizens who wanted it, from a one-time aid to pensioners in April of four thousand dinars, the increase in earnings to medical workers in the amount of 10% in April, and then the one-time aid of 10,000 dinars paid a month ago, on Monday this week we paid both the caterers and tourist workers and another minimum profit and, behold, tomorrow, all of our oldest citizens will once again receive one-time assistance and that amounted to five thousand dinars, just as President Vukic has promised. So a guarantee scheme, a very important detail, a very important part of the total package of measures. A large number of countries have done the same. It's precisely these cheap liquidity loans, for crafts, that are specifically directed at micro-small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore, to the private sector. According to the information we have, based on the feedback we have, it is a very, very important link that has just allowed our economy to be saved, that our economy is rightly struggling with the negative effects of the coronary virus. That is why, one reason, of course, is that this year we will not have a major drop in economic activity, or we will be the best in Europe when GDP falls. The second law before you is a very important law, a law relating to our young people, to our children, a law relating to related schools, or to the confirmation of a financial contract signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The amount of the contract is 65m euros. Related schools mean the development of a wireless local network, computer networks in every school in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, where this is technically justified and possible. So far in the first and second stages of this project 900 schools have already been networked with this money, with this loan, with this contract that we sign, or if you verify it here in the Assembly we will provide such a network in 930 more schools. I can proudly say that every school until the end of this agreement, until the end of this project, will be provided with a local computer network. It's very, very important to all of us, perhaps the most important law, at least this week that we're talking about, because our children are concerned. It's about our young people, it's about digital education, it's about the availability of computer equipment, the Internet and everything that is necessary for quality education, that our children, we prepare for all the challenges that await them in the future. That's why I'm proud that we signed this agreement and that he's here today in front of you. I remain at my disposal, of course, with my colleague Vulin, for every question you have about these three laws or anything else during today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1654	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1655	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Dacic, honourable ministers, Mr Mali and Mr Vulin with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs of the National Assembly at yesterday's session decided unanimously to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. At a video conference on the theme "Mali Schengen", held on 30 October 2020, Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic agreed with the Albanian prime minister to allow the crossing of the state border only with a biometric ID card by 10 November 2020. To make it possible, it was necessary to amend the existing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania. The agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens was concluded by signing the Agreement in Belgrade on 9 November this year. Enabling the crossover of the state border between the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Albania with a valid biometric ID card is one of the proposals under the initiative of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic "Li Schengen" which the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Northern Macedonia launched to ensure the smooth movement of people, goods, services and capital in the territory of the Member States in October 2019. Enabling the crossover of the state border with a valid biometric ID card will significantly contribute to improving and facilitating the movement of citizens and traffic of goods between the two countries, as you said, ministers, earlier in the address. By ratification and effective application of this agreement after its entry into force, the Republic of Serbia will show not only the readiness to carry out activities agreed at meetings in Novi Sad, Tirana and Ohrid during 2019, but also to intensify economic and good neighbourly relations in the Western Balkans region. For all these reasons, I would like to invite all MPs to support that agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1656	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1657	Thank you, National Assembly President, Mr. Dacic. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law also discussed these proposals in line with the Committee's competences, which is to determine whether the proposals are in line with the Constitution and the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. Then We sent them to the people's congregation, that they might be debated in the tribe. Among other things, I'll look back on only one agreement. Today we will talk about an agreement between Serbia and Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. I would like to remind you of the conference that counterpart Aleksandar Markovic spoke about, which was held on 9 November, which is very important that the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Minister Lončar participated. They discussed and signed an agreement on co-operation in the fight against the crown of the virus and on the free movement of citizens with ID cards. So this is not only a political initiative, it's also a step towards our country's health and economy. It is about co-operation between Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia, and for the benefit of citizens of all countries. This applies primarily to the fight against the crown of the virus, to the co-operation of medical professional teams, but also to the possibility that citizens of all countries can be treated in each of the countries, if necessary. This agreement also means less formality for our citizens who want to travel, but of course it will also have positive effects in terms of for example. faster obtaining work permits, better economic relations, i.e. joint economic development, creating a single market in the area where around 11 million people live and work. I would call on MPs to support this proposal in the voting day, as well as other proposals that we will discuss today in the tide, primarily because of the good relations Serbia should build with countries in the region, but also because of the benefits it will have for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1658	Thank you. If there are no more presidents, the representatives of the committee, we are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1659	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to commend this agreement on a trip with ID cards. A week ago, in fact, 12 or 13 years ago, I reacted to the president at the time when he said he was asking the owners of companies and companies not to cooperate with countries whose countries bombed Serbia. That's when I said patriotism isn't poured into the tractor. What benefit will Serbia benefit from this agreement? Exports will increase, economic co-operation and I have to make one parallel when it comes to tourism. I will never go to Albania to sea, but Albania was safer this year than our brother Montenegro. I have not heard that no tourists from Serbia beat up in Albania, and Serbs who went to Montenegro have received beatings in Montenegro, and even one businessman, can freely say one of the major businessmen in Serbia. I am sure this agreement will help businesses, that we will increase exports and Macedonia is in the agreement. We cannot say now - we should not co-operate with Albania, because it supports Kosovo Albanians, it will never change its course. Eddie Rama will always support the Albanians at KIM. We know this very well, but this "mini Schengen" will pull another state when an economic effect occurs in the next period of time. When it comes to these other laws, I would also like to commend the integration of schools, because a large number of schools have no internet, especially in the country. Every child has a mobile phone, and we all know very well that the mobile phone has become an integral part of our children's equipment and that children who go to rural schools, have the Internet and that over the Internet, computers can get some information that they couldn't have during their stay at school and it's never expensive, invest in children, schools, development, what's called the future, and the future is our children, so I want to praise that law. I also have one question for the finance minister, that if the economic operator or entities are all legal companies that have a certain number of employees, I believe that the group is also owned by farmers, that they are deprived, that they do not have the stimuli during the Kovids, which has hooked up to Serbia, and that if there is a possibility of helping these farmers too, given that these agricultural producers who are owners and have ownership, that these are family businesses, that families are, first of all, employed by these companies and in some way, being one big incentive for agricultural producers to take care of them. We know it's very difficult, that the state has invested a lot of money in equipment when it comes to clinical centres, hospitals, and that the state has not invested and has not made any adaptation or has not built several new clinical centres, so that we, I'm sure, have a certain problem. The fact that some countries are attacking us, they are attacking us because Serbia has the greatest economic development, they can say freely in Europe, perhaps one country has only greater economic development. Who's the most attacking us? Croatia. Croatia is almost in the last place and if it enters the EU after economic development and if God has given them everything, and the sea, and geographical position, etc., and Croatia can never forgive Serbia for calling it economic development and that Serbian citizens will reach Croatia very quickly and what is called the monthly salary of Croatia and those who are used to living from Serbs, that Serbs go there to the sea and when it comes to tourism, etc. My proposal is that citizens go to the sea where they love you, such as Greece, which loves the Serbian people. Greece has not recognised Kosovo's independence, and has given us support on the European path. With Albania to co-operate, because money is not colored, it is said in economic, economic terms, that the minister knows very well that today is very difficult to find the market, especially outside our country, and the indicator that Serbia is doing well is the arrival of the world's largest companies. Yesterday, a Japanese company world-renowned came to Serbia and will employ a large number of workers, not only a Japanese company, but a large number of world-renowned companies. There is a decline in Jagodina, in Europe at all, and to open a factory that is finished, a German company called Fisher. It produces screws and parts for BMW Vehicles. Yesterday we signed a contract with a Chinese factory that will employ 150 workers and start building that factory. If the economic climate in Serbia were not what it is, if Serbia were not positively talked about worldwide, not only when it comes to businessmen but also politicians, it would not be so many interested investors who come to Serbia. In recent years, a huge number of foreign investors have come to Serbia and have helped Serbia reduce the number of clients from the number of taxpayers, with a higher number of taxpayers than users. A few years ago, there was a very small difference, that the rest would have no place to pay salaries and pensions today. That's good for local self-government. Local self-government from salary taxes has 77 and some percent. The position rose year after year in Serbia's cities and decentralisation occurred. Before all the buildings were built in two, three, four cities, or five, six municipalities. Today it is built in Serbia, even in those undeveloped municipalities that do not have a good geographical position, are not near the highway, because investors, first of all, want the location you offer them to be by the highway, that there is a railway, that it is near the airport and so on. We can freely say, given that this may be among the last topics this year, that Serbia has a good chance, that Serbian citizens are not afraid of some economic crisis. The economic crisis will affect the whole world, hooks and Serbia, but Serbia has a reserve, Serbia has continuity. These factories today, and not only those that came to Serbia outside Serbia, and our domestic factories work during the crown, which is not the case in other countries and other cities. We make the most of it, the rest is just, not to be afraid, but to see how to look at this evil called the Crown, to save our families, and to reduce the dosage so it's not a non-stop topic. I'm more into these stories, because this story and the story of success have been suppressed, ministers, for the reason that we only listen to the crown, and who died and so on. It is good that vaccines will arrive in Serbia before the end of this year. At first we had information that it would not, but the top of this country and the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, did so, here is one amount of vaccine that will come to Serbia and that next year all those who want to be vaccinated are vaccinated, and that they have the priority of those who have contact with people. My suggestion is that we are the last to be vaccinated, the ones elected in the election. So, to vaccinate first those ordinary people, ordinary citizens, gentlemen agricultural producers, and we're the last to vaccinate. I'm sure that by now 15% - 20% of the number of MPs had a crown and, thank God, we've all kind of thrown the virus out of the body, but that's how I want it to happen with the others who are suffering from the crown. If it hadn't been for the respirator and we didn't have oxygen, it would have been five times as much mortality as it is today. And I have to say this, this psychic moment that's been there 24 hours every day for every family because someone we know dies, because some friend of ours is gone and we hear he's on the respirator and so on, and it's not so easy to fight something and it's been standing there subconsciously in our heads all the time and we're all scared. Of course, the one who's not afraid, there's something wrong with that man. Each one of us has a certain amount of fear, but I don't need that fear and that fear that I get even more scared every day when we get up, etc. Now, what's most important is the holidays of St. Nicholas. Half of Serbia celebrates St. Nicholas, half goes to glory. That's where you're supposed to listen to the recommendations of the profession. It's New Year's Eve. We are a generation that is used to, and our children, that is the day when there are more people in one place, but let us endure this year and that the next year, the sooner we send this evil out of Serbia and that we no longer talk about it. What's important, sometimes when we were in the army, I served Tito's guard in Pula, and not everyone could go to Tito's guard. You had to take out everything your great-grandfather did to you, your grandfather, your father, and you, and there was an NNNI keybinding – nothing should surprise us. It was Serbia who acted that way that the crown did not surprise us and together that we were all fighting, that we were not sitting with our hands in the interior and that only Belgrade and those with ministerial functions were doing so, but also the Assembly. Someone calls the Assembly, says we passed a small number of laws. Who's calling? Those who did not go to the elections or had gone to the elections would not have had the opportunity to participate in the adoption of the law, because they would not have a 3% censorship and there are in some way changed conditions, precisely because of those who have criticised all the time that the conditions are not good etc. In Parliament, anyone can talk, say whatever they want, even lie. There's immunity for a publicly spoken word. The citizens will assess... I mean the former opposition sitting here, etc. Now they say - negotiations should be negotiated and discussed with Ivica Dacic, the president of the assembly. What they don't have is what Dacic should give them and this parliament, that's our question to be asked them. They don't have any money. So, where did we get the money? Well, we have a budget based on the number of MPs we've won each and every one of us. The Serbian Progressive Party has the most, the SPS, other parties etc. We use that money in the election campaign. But they do, too. They have donors, I don't know, from Qatar and some other states. When a stranger gives you money for the campaign, you owe something to do for that stranger. No one's giving you pretty eyes. They can give you coffee and lunch if you get in or out, but the huge numbers are from abroad during not this last one, but the previous campaigns, the last one, came to Serbia, and that's why we need to be unique. Citizens of Serbia, let me tell you, I live outside Belgrade 130km. I have communication with people. I didn't hear one of them say, "Well, you're doing a bad job, or this minister is doing a bad job." Everyone says -- it's a great honor to have you both fighting Parliament and ministers at a time when it's hard. In some other countries when they want to take a test of whether they're positive or negative, to travel somewhere, it's paid seven, eight months ago, and it's huge money. Why, for example, did our diaspora people spend two, three and a half months here? Well, because Serbia is a country where prices are not high, because everything is free when it comes to health and because Serbia is a very safe state and takes care of every man. It's something we have to brag about, something we'll talk about all the time, and when it comes to you, or what they call these negotiations, I don't know what they'd negotiate? What is it that taboo is a topic that we don't know or that they're threatened and we don't give them? Citizens give this right, not me MPs in parliament, not Dacic, not Minister Vulin, not Minister Mali. The citizens are sending you here. And on what grounds are they sending you? Based on the program, based on the work report, based on something called how you worked while you were in power and when we gave you trust. It's been a while, you know, you rule, and then the citizens dissatisfied, so come back again. The citizens will never again allow some who have had the chance to do something for Serbia to return. Look, they take away our Kosovo, they declare independent Kosovo, and we go to church to pray to God, so that God asks Ban Ki-moon to Bab Ki-moon to annul the decision on Kosovo's independence and Metohija? I love church and I respect it. I go when the baptism, the wedding, is glory and so on, but to pray to God against those who pressed the button to bomb Serbia, for me it was not some means that would undo that decision on Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. The independence decision is annulled in the way Dacic and Vukic did. You go to a country that once recognised an independent Kosovo, never come to Serbia and 18 states withdraw recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence. That's the result for me and for every man, not the result of going to the pencil. Far away, when a person is sick, he goes to church to pray to God to help him, and that's normal today and not just today, but it's always been so. Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, a single Serbia will vote in favour of the bill. We'll back you up. You're doing good. I would like to congratulate everyone who celebrates St. Nicholas, to celebrate the family and every family to wish for themselves if there are younger ones in the family, if these are five members, that next year there are at least six members present at that celebration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1660	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1661	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Markovic, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on all the investments you've drawn to Jagodina. I think it's very important things. But it's a picture that you have the opportunity to see in all of Serbia. President Vukic, when he was at the foundation for the Japanese factory yesterday, was the largest Japanese investment in Serbia ever, therefore, Tojo Tyres. The total value of the investment is 382m euros, 560 new jobs in India. At a time when the whole world has problems and with the coronary virus, when the biggest economic crisis has ever been in the whole world, enough of these data tells you how much Serbia has remained and became attractive for investment and how sure we have become, because it was not the measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we have not supported our economy, that we have not shown that our GDP growth rate is the largest in Europe and that we have the smallest drop in Europe this year, that we have not shown ourselves as a country that fulfils all our obligations in the day and in the dinar as defined by both regulations and law, so we are not late, we have shown ourselves, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as a very serious partner, as a reliable partner. I expect 2.3 billion euros in foreign direct investment in Serbia by the end of the year, 2.3 billion euros in the most difficult economic year ever. More than 60% of foreign direct investment coming into the Western Balkans region comes to Serbia and that means new jobs, new factories, for us the obligation to build even more highways, new industrial zones, new health facilities and kindergartens and schools and all that makes progress and progress of the Republic of Serbia. One of the questions you've asked is farmers, Your Honor, Mr. Markovic. What's very important is that you all know and, if you didn't already know, therefore, agricultural holdings have different legal status ways, so different legal status. They can be organised as entrepreneurs, such as micro, small, medium-sized enterprises, and in that case all the measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has implemented, which it has implemented and which it has planned are also related to them. So, agricultural holdings, once again, as micro, small or medium-sized enterprises, if they're so organized, or as entrepreneurs, if they're so organized, they have the right to all kinds of assistance they have and other businesses from, let's say, businesses, if this is agriculture, and we've organized that, if you remember, in March and April of this year. Those not covered by this guarantee scheme are individual agricultural producers, therefore, not agricultural holdings. For individual agricultural producers, we have also defined a regulation for their assistance through the Ministry of Agriculture in parallel and at the same time with the economic measures programme. What I want to inform you about is that to this day, through this regulation, we have totalled exactly 12,741 credits for 12,741 individuals. The total value of these loans that have been allocated from the Serbian budget is 17 billion dinars. These are liquidity loans and the supply of tractors and throats. So we've been thinking about everyone, about agricultural holdings, however organized, as entrepreneurs, micro, small, medium-sized enterprises. Just before you, Mr. Markovic, told the family etc, which is absolutely correct, but if they are registered as individual agricultural producers then through a regulation defined by the Ministry of Agriculture, through their Agrarian Payments Agency, if I'm not mistaken, that's what this institution is called, therefore, 17 billion dinars of favourable liquidity loans to these individual agricultural producers. So, I don't think we've forgotten anyone. If it is necessary to help someone else, of course we will always think about it, but this way with the help of this sectoral, on Monday and another minimum income for the hosts, for the workers in the tourism area, tomorrow with the payment of 5,000 dinars to pensioners, over 700 billion dinars was placed, it was set aside for the aid and economy and agriculture, and for all those who needed help in this most difficult year of the coronary need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1662	Thank you, Minister. The word has a People's MP Dragan Markovic, I assume a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1663	I am pleased with your response, especially 5,000 for every pensioner, and this will benefit the most from agricultural producers, whose pensions are the least. I want to ask you something, I can say for myself that I don't know or that I know, what's bitcoin? Whose money is that? How does it buy a machine and dig and now, I don't know, earn this much, go on a personal map, raise money in a bank, without him having any books, without paying taxes, etc.? Can you explain to me what it is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1664	Listen, I'd like to ask you, it's not a topic on today's agenda. That was on the agenda yesterday, but since Mr. Markovic was justifiably absent yesterday, if you will, Mr. Minister, please welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1665	I will, if I'm not mistaken, I only have two minutes, so it's a relatively short time. Mr. Markovic, I'm glad you've raised this question again that we had a chance to discuss yesterday. So it's a whole new area, something that's brand-new. You have alternative sources of funding, you have traditional sources of funding. We the elderly are usually tied to these traditional ones. So if you need a loan, you go, you get a loan in the bank, you have money in your account, etc. In the development of some digital economy, in the development of some innovative activities, again some people who may be a step, two ahead of us, were thinking of creating something completely new, completely new currency, a brand-new asset, a brand-new means of payment. It's a currency crypt. Bitcoin is the most famous. You have more of that crypto currency and they said, lay it out now I'm saying to understand a larger number of people, let's use this bitcoin as a means of payment and they've found enough people, a sufficient critical mass of people who have accepted it and started to make an alternative to so-called. traditional sources of funding. It's spread in terms of... (Dear Markovic: Whose money is it? Everyone has their own money. So the way that it's done, you have more of these types. You have, first of all, two divided into private and public networks. Secondly, you have a division of those who are controlled by all participants or those who are private and controlled only by those who are networked into that one network. It's not that simple to explain, but it's money, everyone's money. They belong to the one whose name is kept. It is the law that is before you – the Digital Property Act regulates that area, Mr. Markovic, in a way that cannot be traded with it or cannot be used by that digital property or digital currency, however you wish, without having a name and name and that you are not registered, so that you know how many of these currency crypts you have. If you want a currency crypt, I'll give you an example, and that's where I'll end up. So you have 100 of some bitcoins, it doesn't matter, and you want to pay with those bitcoins. Someone accepts it as a way of paying, someone doesn't. With the new law that we're going to pass, there are institutions, organizations, companies dealing with the trade of these bitcoins. So, you exchange battles with them, they accept it and give you money, dinars and you pay with dinars what you have to pay. It's not easy to understand, Mr. Markovic, and these are some newspapers. My wish was that with this law we are not lagging behind, given that it is a very growing segment of the digital economy that everyone is talking about and that these young, innovative people, who live in Serbia, who are working in Serbia, give the possibility that these sources of funding, this kind of funding, the way they benefit from funding in Serbia, that they do not have to go abroad, but to do so here, but under controlled conditions, regulated conditions and by the Securities Commission, both by the NBS. At any point I'm available to discuss this a little bit. It's not that simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1666	I know this is pretty complicated, because I just asked Minister Vulin how the police are going to confiscate illegally acquired battles, but we're already going into metaphysical discussions, and that's not on the agenda today. Let's move on. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1667	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have very important laws ahead of us, and I will set out to say something about each and every one of them. First of all, we have a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania. On November 9th, a bilateral agreement was signed in Belgrade between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania on the free movement of citizens across borders between the borders of our countries with only ID cards. A similar agreement, or agreement, was signed with the Republic of Macedonia. The agreement was concluded because there was a mutual will of the two countries to facilitate and facilitate the transition of both people and goods, thus improving and facilitating the movement of citizens, as well as economies in both countries. At the same time, a mini summit was held at which the prime ministers participated. She was our prime minister, Mrs. Brnabic, as well as the health ministers of the three countries. What is most important is Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the state of Kovid and the fight against Kovid 19, as soon as the basis for joint co-operation against the Corona, which would primarily refer to the area of medical co-operation, i.e. to the supply of, joint co-operation in the area of obtaining vaccines, as well as to the formation of so-called "Medical Cooperation". "green transfer lines" which could be treated by citizens of the Republic of Albania or Northern Macedonia in our hospitals and vice versa, which is indeed not only noble but extremely important, functionally and at the same time one message that in difficult times, surely even in the easy times of this country, they can and must cooperate in the best way. For us in the SDP, it is very important that we agreed that, of course, we are not closing the borders, but that we are fighting the pandemic together and continue to improve our trade exchange by further simplifying procedures, facilitating the flow of goods and capital, we can do much to grow our economies. Serbia will both support Tirana and Skopje in their efforts on the European path and ask the EU to move towards membership negotiations with both Albania and Northern Macedonia. We thus show our seriousness, thus showing genuine desires that not only we, but a complete region and all our neighbours are part of the EU, what we both belong to culturally and civilly. Mini-schegen. Of course, it is excellent initiatives, but I think their full success requires the participation and inclusion of all Western Balkan states. The mini Schengen should in practice achieve those four great European freedoms - the movement of people, capital, goods and services. It would be a great benefit for all citizens, not just for businessmen, not just for the economy, because when it comes to benefits, it is mainly about economic benefits. Connecting with the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Montenegro really has special importance for me because it is of exceptional importance and facilitates communication and strengthens the integration of Sanjah Bosniaks living on both sides of these borders. I want to say that the Bosniaks were and that the Bosniaks would be a factor in connecting and bringing the people together in the Balkans. Easier flow of people and goods will also result in economic gain for this region, and I will remind you that the main economic branch in Sandzak is trade, transport and in a more recent period of tourism, so that this easier crossing of borders is of exceptional importance for the area from which I come. Of course, I think it's very good for the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there's no dilemma, as there is for Montenegro. I hope that soon those who enter and sign these contracts and be an integral part of this mini Schengen, given that the possibility of Bosnia showing its competitiveness also opens, will get a safer market in one area that would be harder to win if there was no easier transition and easier transport. Also, Montenegro, which I believe is necessary for the reason that a large part of its national income on tourism, and the traditional relief of traditional tourists are from these countries. The most common tourists in Montenegro and facilitating transitions, goods and services are of great interest to the Republic of Montenegro, and I think this is a time to unite on the common interests and well-being of our citizens, and I think it is indeed a good initiative. The important thing is that it's an indigenous, regional initiative and it's not imposed on the outside. In this way, all these countries would prove to be an extremely good EU partner, making all these countries more difficult together. A joint performance would certainly be better than individual performances, small markets have nothing to look for on a large single European market. Benefits of this kind of co-operation certainly exist, but we often encounter some disputes and grudges, as mini Schengen is rarely experienced, experienced and criticised. On the Kosovo political scene, for example, the future free trade and traffic zone is called "mini Yugoslavia", and is believed to allow Serbia's economic domination in the region. I don't think this kind of criticism has been established, that they come, first of all, because of lack of trust and prejudice. No one in the economy has anything to challenge this initiative, and prejudice and mistrust are the best thing to do if one step at a time is to achieve what is agreed. The mini Schengen should be something CEFTA failed to achieve, as CEFTA was seen to be unable to resolve any bilateral misunderstandings, but rather someone who had to resolve these disputes was sought. Social democracy certainly supports the opening of states, as well as speeding up better co-operation, primarily with neighbours in the region. A concrete example of good co-operation, quality co-operation and practically these agreements in the mini Schengen is the suspension of the roaming fee that should be phased out by the end of 2021 among the Western Balkan countries. There, a simple, clear but concrete improvement for all citizens living in these countries. That's what we're going to support this agreement with. We think he's very good and very good. We support and accept the mini Schengen not as some waiting station, but as a special track that will give further acceleration to all the countries of the region towards full membership in the EU. We also have a law on establishing a guarantee scheme, as a measure of support, in order to mitigate the effects of the pandemic against Kovid 19. That's what's already been said, the predecessors before me said a few significant things. The increase, indeed, in the liquidity of economic operators is something that was the focus and preservation of jobs of this government, so that one step, the first steps that the government started in this difficult time pandemic, was this practical guarantee for loans to liquidity firms, and that's something that's very good. These measures were activated with the very beginning of the pandemic. We had in June, as I saw, about June 24th, a report where they really are, the response of the economy was very large to these loans, and that by the end of June, only the banks had reached a request for about a billion euros in credit under a guarantee scheme to which the state provided assistance and liquidity and crafts to entrepreneurs, micro and small businesses due to the pandemic of the coronary virus. 6/3 DJ/CG According to these requirements, it was clearly seen that the most challenges facing entrepreneurs, small and micro-legislators and that this is the kind of assistance they need most and which is the best stabilization of business. The government's goal was to secure their business. The adoption of this law should initiate all other entrepreneurs, who are still considering this kind of help, to report and take advantage of this opportunity, because it really is very good loans, are favourable, cheap money that is already in circulation, the period of payment is 36 months, and the grace period of 12 months, while the state guarantees up to 80% of the amount of debt. We Social Democrats have a real sensitivity to employees' problems both in the public and private sectors, and we clearly recognise and support the importance of economic support, especially in these difficult times. First of all, what is most important to us Social Democrats, preserving jobs, that's imperative, one difficult task in this difficult time, but really these kinds of government moves can make us better in this field. Most importantly, as a serious and stable state, which in the first quarter showed an extremely high growth rate, we were among the best in Europe, helping our economy in the right way. By strengthening the economic sector, we also strengthen the state's finances, create better conditions for business, but also for the lives of our citizens. We're creating favourable ground to increase wages and pensions. We want to look ahead, to the better tomorrow, and we can only do that if we're stable in all fields, above all in the fields of the economy. Of course, with that big imperative and what's promised and what we're going to insist on, the average salary is 900 euros and the average pension is 430 euros in one short period. Therefore, we will truly support this government's support for private entrepreneurship. I think it is very important for us to say more about this bill on the project, i.e. the confirmation of loans, the adoption of the loan law for the project "Connected School". As a country in 2018, we started this project "Connected Schools" to get all schools in Serbia a quick internet. The existence of wireless internet is indeed a prerequisite in schools for introducing digital teaching content and applying a completely new methodology in all teaching subjects, which will lead to the development of digital literacy of students and teachers, better preparing young people for future interests. The Connected School project was launched primarily by the government of the Republic of Serbia and has been through two phases so far. Practically, 400 home school facilities have already established a fast internet, so these stages are recognized by the European Bank, which has also accepted it as a national co-financing project and have granted us a truly favourable 65m-euro loan that will allow a local computer network to be built in 930 other school facilities. This means that there will be no school in Serbia without local internet, i.e. without a good local vales network. In the SDPS, we support a strong reform of the education system to prepare young people for the digital skills that are coming into the 21st century, but also so that the country's economic system itself is ready to respond to the challenges that this digital era is bringing to us. This is how we invest in the future. It's wonderful to say that education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world. At the same time, we also support the modernisation of administrative procedures in schools in order to save time for people who work with children, practically teachers and teachers, to give more time for students, for teaching, for teaching and thus to provide quality teaching. The law that is before us allows us to finish this job, to take 65m euros to realize this project. I'll say the total budget for this project is 111 million 290 thousand dinars. It's really about one serious number. Of course, we will also get it from loans, but also from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, because every investment in knowledge is an investment and investment in knowledge that brings really the best interest. The project is divided into several components, I will only make it include teaching teachers, mentoring, monitoring which provides for training of 250 trainers and 50,000 teachers, digital equipment that involves providing about 50,000 laptops, equipment and introduction of a veil network in over 1,900 schools, upgrade of the academic network in terms of creating conditions for connecting and serving these networks in these 1,900 schools. So, one big job, but extremely valuable. This time of the pandemic when teaching is remote or online teaching reality and everyday life has shown us how well we've been on our way, it has shown us that we have had a good vision of modernising our schooling in the right way and that at this difficult moment we are conducting online teaching in one quality way and of course it is proof that we should insist and continue in this field because without digitisation, without digital society, information society, something in which Serbia's leader, we can equally participate in the economy of the future. In the end, I want to say that the objective of this project is clear, is to improve education, establish quality conditions for teaching and learning, the availability of knowledge to everyone and the full application of new technologies at school. The social democratic view of the world has always rested on the understanding of education in the function of creating free, solid people who enjoy equal opportunities in society. Finally, I will mention another project implemented by the Ministry of Trade and Telecommunications, and since it is one of the institutions and this project "Connect Schools", which is that in this pandemic time this Ministry of Trade and Telecommunications continues with infrastructure-building projects. First of all, I think of a very good project to build a broadband internet in the rural areas of our country. What does that mean? The project will allow more than 600 settlements in rural parts of Serbia, in rural parts of Serbia where there is no commercial interest in building a network, information network and for these people in rural areas to get a fixed phone, a fast and quality internet, a quality TV signal. Gentlemen, today the Internet is connected to the world and the source of all the necessary information. Thousands of young people in rural areas will be given the opportunity of modern education, but also the quality of leisure time, while businessmen in these areas will be able to improve their work and work more successfully. This project also enables the development of entrepreneurship in agriculture, services and domestic tourism and cultural heritage. We keep saying our villages are empty. This is another move by the Government to facilitate and increase the quality of life in the country, but it also gives tools to people in the country that are constantly informed and that they are constantly involved in the processes of new agricultural knowledge, but also in modernising and speeding up what has started with us, which is rural tourism, which is something that has a very big perspective because this year our tourism will be turned to rural tourism, i.e. tourism being carried out in our country and quality internet and in villages is imperative for the continuation of this development. Therefore, we will truly support all these laws that are before us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1668	I would like to thank Dr Muamer Bačevac, the authorised representative of the SDPS Parliamentary Group. Since I see one of the promoters in the system, I'm giving the word to Minister Voulina.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1669	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mr Markovic and Mr Bacec for the understanding of the proposal that is before you today and for supporting him in the voting day. Whether Serbia will be an EU member, when it will be an EU member, no one can say that. I can't say it, of course, because it's something that's not just up to us. If by the criteria, if it were based on the criteria that other countries in the EU were received, Serbia would have long been an EU member, but we usually have some movable goals ahead of us, we usually face certain requirements that have very little or nothing to do with the rule of law, nor with the economy, nor with the development of our country. So I can't say that they will decide in the EU, but I can say that there are things that are simply good for Serbia and should be taken out of EU practice – a journey with as little formality as possible of markets as possible. It is good practice and good experience and it is good for us as citizens of this country to make our space relieved of any obstacles and obligations whenever possible and wherever possible. Problems in the Balkans always begin and never end without the will of major forces. If we Balkans had been able to decide about ourselves through our history, there would be no wars, there would be no conflict, but unfortunately, we have always been decided by others, they have always managed very effectively to divide us, quarrel and quarrel, and therefore there have been blood rivers in the Balkans. Whenever foreigners decide on our space, they do not decide with the desire that our children live better, but decide in accordance with the needs of themselves and their children. This is our way of making the Balkans a more peaceful, safer space with more mutual trust. This is our way of reducing, as much as possible, the possibility of large ones deciding for us. Those who oppose this agreement oppose the possibility of Balkans agreeing. They oppose the possibility of us deciding our fate, us, the ones who live here. We who live here know that peace is our best interest and we know that there can be no peace without economic development, and we know that when Serbia is economically strong and developed that peace is in the Balkans. Those who don't understand it, either won't understand it, or don't want that kind of Serbia. When the Balkans decide for themselves there is peace and prosperity here. That is why I am very grateful for what you said, for your understanding and for showing that Serbia has no reason to fear anyone. We're the ones who are on the economic rise. We're the ones who have something to offer, we're the ones who want to open the borders, because we want our business people to be able to travel, invest, invest, hire. Times passed when Serbia was moving away from others, when it constantly had a lower-value complex, when it was not allowed to say it had its own interests or to have its own economy. Serbia led by President Vukic is Serbia has the courage to say – this is our interest and we fight for our interests. Wherever our people's representatives live and there's our interest, and that's where we'll fight to make them live better. So whoever's against this deal either doesn't understand, or he doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1670	Thank you. The next authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group, Akos Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1671	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SVM parliamentary group will support a set of draft laws ahead of us. As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, talk about the draft law establishing a guarantee scheme, as this continues the process of easing the economic and financial consequences of the pandemic of Kovid-19, and MP Nandor Kish will later discuss the second draft of the law. Responsible economic policy management and the good state of the budget have created enough space for the government of the Republic of Serbia to help the economy mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic of the coronary virus. In this year's adoption is a comprehensive package of measures to preserve the liquidity of businesses and the population, employment levels, and maintenance of living standards. The planned value of the total package is estimated at 12.5% of GDP. One measure was the adoption of a regulation laying down a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic Kovid-19. This Regulation established the establishment of a national guarantee scheme, an increase in the liquidity of business entities through the guarantee mechanism of the Republic of Serbia for loans granted by banks to economic operators for the financing of liquidity and crafts assets, which enables the conclusion of a contract on the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to credit the economy with the aim of pandemic-negative effects of Kovid-19 disease, is a measure that sublimes itself with an extremely important and necessary mechanism of effect for all persons based in the Republic of Serbia, including agricultural land, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, whose liquidity is a prerequisite for the functioning of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. As a result of the regulation, the dinar share of payments has been significantly increased, resulting from the growth of dinar loans, i.e. the drop in interest rates on dinar loans. Low and stable inflation has contributed to credit activity growth, as well as NBS measures to support the process of dinarisation. The SVM parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed law, as it will certainly contribute to making the real GDP growth rate 6% in the next 2021. The most significant source of growth on the spending side will be personal consumption thanks to the above mentioned measure, which maintains the stability of the labour market. Based on the proposed law, we can conclude that the price of loans indexed in euro will be at a maximum of 3% plus a three-month eurobor, which is indexed in dinars 2.5% plus one-month belibor. The proposed interest rates increase the overall liquidity of the financial market, reducing the amount of the claims. In order to continue the process of dinarisation, loans in dinars need to be cheaper than those in foreign currency. That's extremely significant, because that rules out course risk. The proposed terms of the loan are extremely favourable, but the fact is that loans from the KOZME programme, where the guarantee is given by the European Investment Fund, are tied to the euro and there are no clean dinar loans. The maximum amount of credit moves around 150,000 euros, with loans with a guarantee scheme up to three million euros, or up to about 360 million dinars. The Grace period with KOZME program is up to six months, and with a guarantee scheme up to 12 months. The KOZME programme has higher rates in most cases than in the guarantee scheme, while agricultural holdings are excluded from the KOZME programme, while loans with a state guarantee are not. On the basis of the above, we can say that the market is currently the most favourable credit, a state guarantee loan, and that is one of the reasons why our parliamentary group will support the proposed law. I also have to say that in addition to the good conditions, the most important measure of the proposed law is to renew credits, existing loans. This is an extremely good banking product, because credit users provide additional time in terms of grace periods and credit repayment deadlines, thus providing the company with air and pandemics. I'd have a few suggestions. In point 7. of Article 8. You're saying the bill says that users of credit next to the corporate bond should also give a personal note. In my opinion, this could cause a problem for those companies where the majority owner is a non-resident, or foreign person, because they are unable to issue a personal note and therefore automatically rejects the credit claim. In addition, this member can cause a problem with stock companies, because maybe not all shareholders who have more than 25% of the company's ownership want to issue a personal note. That's what I'm saying from practice. I suggest that security cases like this be sought instead of personal bonds to guarantee connected persons. In addition, in Article 5, paragraph 6, the proposed law states that persons who are already credit users provided with a guarantee scheme cannot again be credit users. I think it should be stressed that persons who have used a threem-euro framework cannot again be credit users without everyone else being able to. This is important because some users in the first round only used the minimum amount of loans with a guaranteed scheme, because they had greater fear of pandemics, however, they were currently more optimistic after the government's measure, and in the second round they would use this type of credit again. It is necessary to extend the purpose of the said loan over the next period and to allow businesses to use it for investment investments in addition to liquidity security. This is important because, in 2021, investment will be the second most important component in terms of a positive contribution to GDP growth, which is extremely important from the perspective of its sustainability. I would like to point out here that it is very important to find a solution that performers get much simpler censures than business banks. Namely, contractors in each investment should deliver different guarantees, e.g. A guarantee of good performance to the job manager, and due to the duration of the bank's investment, they always ask the contractor for firm security, such as the first-row mortgage. This is very difficult to secure in smaller places or almost everywhere outside Belgrade, as banks find it very difficult to accept properties located in undeveloped security municipalities. It is therefore important that the government of the Republic of Serbia finds a solution in addition to favourable loans for favourable guarantees, as this will directly depend on the level of increase in investment. In addition, it is important to define the period of processing of credit requirements and should not be longer than 15 to 20 days. In the next period, it would be important to allow users of loans with a guarantee scheme, in addition to private enterprises, and those of which the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units have over 50% stake in ownership and do not have a monopoly on the market. This is important because these companies because of the pandemic that affected their collection of claims are in a very difficult situation and the big question is whether they will survive next year without adequate help. Here, first of all, I think of water companies that depend on the maintenance of air duct systems. And to sum up, as I pointed out at the very beginning of my address, the SVM parliamentary group will support the proposed law because in recent years, thanks first to the Hungarian government's donations, representatives in Vojvodina have made huge investments and thus took investment loans and mortgaged their companies at domestic banks. This means that without this type of credit, most of the businesses mentioned could not obtain additional funds for liquidity, especially with good conditions, which is why loans with a guaranteed scheme provide financial difficulties. In the voting day, we will also support other draft laws on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1672	(He speaks to the People's MP in Hungarian. I thank the authorised representative. He has the word of the SPS parliamentary group president Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1673	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Kovac. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, of course the SPS Group will support these legislative proposals in the voting day, but since these legislative proposals are much to be discussed, I will try to do so in an accelerated procedure. Mr. Vulin, you spoke of a very important agreement, it is about the Law confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. You said in an opening statement that the 2011 Agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. You also said that these changes continue to liberalise the procedures for the travel of citizens of Albania to Serbia and Serbia to Albania by allowing movement to be made possible with the possession of a biometric ID card which can establish the identity of citizens of one or another state. This change is the result of the signing of the Declaration of Three Countries -- Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Serbia and Albania, in order to increase economic growth, in order to attract investment and raise the quality of life of citizens in all three countries. This declaration was signed in October 2019 by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the president of the governments of Northern Macedonia and Albania. Let me do one dipression. The result of what we're talking about today is actually, and we wouldn't be talking about this if it weren't for a mini shengen, like something that's a visionary move. The mini Schengen, I'd say, is healing and the best for the whole region. The concrete benefit of the minishengen will certainly be felt by the citizens. That confirms the agreement we're talking about today. There is no closing of borders, but together we are fighting the coves of the pandemic and we are promoting our trade exchange. By further simplifying procedures, cooperation, facilitating the flow of goods, services and capital we do, we can do a lot of things. The region can only be a significant factor with cooperation. All the challenges can be overcome jointly, and that is, I repeat, a visionary initiative that changes the whole region. If we do not cooperate, then we are really too small to act as factors and here we fully agree with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and if we co-operate, we are a much stronger and more important and interesting factor for investors. So it improves all aspects of people's lives in these areas. Those who criticise Mini Schengen don't think they understand the very essence, I don't think they understand the goals that are intended to achieve this visionary initiative, because there's nothing here that disturbs Serbia's interests as they say. Serbia cannot be alone, Serbia cannot be isolated, we are part of the world, we are part of Europe, we are part of the region, and the more we co-operate, the more we will benefit our citizens and will be better economic and overall social growth. As far as the Law confirms the financial agreement "Connected School in Serbia" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, I was a little more interested in this bill. There's a lot of information that's very important and I want to announce today. In fact, through the loan of the European Investment Banks, the final phases of the projects of Connected Schools and Digital Schools are financed, as well as the start of the "Computer Offices" project, while the bank will be awarded a technical assistance guarantee to support the implementation of the Digital Schools project and the evaluation of the results of the project implementation. The Connected School project, carried out by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, aims to divulge the internet to every classroom at home facilities, so all primary and secondary schools. This should differ from the internet connection of a school provided by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications through the academic network of the Republic of Serbia almost all schools from earlier. Internet connection provides Internet schools in one place at school. So far, according to some data, the Internet has been divorced into all classrooms in about 880 schools, mostly large and medium-sized schools, which has been done from the budget through the first two stages of this project. The third phase should provide the Internet in all classrooms, all primary and secondary schools and is planned to finance from the European Investment Bank's loan, together with the strengthening of central location infrastructure in the academic network of the Republic of Serbia in order to expand the capacity to connect all classrooms, all schools on the Internet. The third phase will cover nearly 900 schools and is planned to be completed in early 2022. Also, the European Investment Bank's loan envisions 28m euros for the project. This project forms the basis for setting up digital classrooms, and significant support will provide and establish a single full capacity education information system through the provision of prerequisites for the up-to-date keeping of journals in electronic form in all schools, which is very important today. The project is also very important for computer cabinets, because this will provide Internet access from all computers in computer cabinets. The second part of the loan is intended for activities within the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, totalling 37m euros, the Digital School project, and it aims to enrich the teaching process with digital educational content in order to provide all the conditions that certain students have during learning in their home conditions, and all for raising the level of quality of the teaching process through which students will master the intended materials in a more efficient way and that students need to ensure a better understanding of processed material. It consists of three components of digital teaching content, equipment and training for teachers. Digital educational content is obtained every year in accordance with the needs of schools. By law, schools are dedicated to certain printed or digital textbooks, and therefore they are provided with a digital textbook that is exactly corresponding to the selected printed textbook. Selected textbooks if digital textbooks are involved. So far, they've been supplied from budget funds, and so it's foreseen, as far as I know, and for the next school year, budget funds. So that's how it's supposed to be for the next school year. 675 million were provided in the basic sector. In the current school year, the first, second, fifth, sixth and seventh classes are working on new plans and programs for which digital textbooks exist, while for the next school year there will be for the remaining two classes. The following year, digital textbooks are also expected to be provided for all four classes of high school. So far, the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education has trained more than 30,000 teachers, thus providing them with the necessary knowledge that in the teaching process they know how to use modern technologies and digital teaching facilities, digital textbooks. It is planned that the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education will train an additional 20,000 teachers in the following year. The whole activity is being implemented from budget funds, which is very important to point out. So far, 10 digital classrooms have been provided and seven thousand large, three thousand small ones. The aforementioned classrooms are provided by budget funds, two thousand in the "Pilot Project" and eight thousand in the previous school year. It is planned to provide 10,000 digital classrooms in the second semester of the current school year, as well as to provide 11,500 digital classrooms for the next school year, which are really impressive results. Both purchases were planned from the European Investment Bank loan, 944 million without VAT for the first and 1,144.108.333 without VAT for the second phase. These two procurements will be sufficient for all classrooms in primary schools and high schools to become digital, while in secondary schools a large number of classrooms will be digitized, which of course is the ultimate goal. In order to provide teachers with good conditions for teaching preparation, as well as the possibility of providing students with an online part of the course, the European Investment Bank's loan provides for 18,500 additional laptops for teachers in the following year, thus obtaining conditions for projectors to be in the classroom and teachers to carry a laptop with them. The computer cabinet project aims to renovate computers in computer cabinets that are largely old or even corrupt in many schools. The latest system equipment was done only in 2008 or 2009 through the then Digital Office Project, when 2000 cabinets were provided with multipoint servers that are still in use in large numbers of schools and whose performances are extremely weak compared to modern computers, which significantly limits their usability. A certain number of schools have managed to provide newer computers, thanks to the ability of directors and employees, which is by chance the school attends the child of one of the wealthy parents, but most schools continue to rely on outdated computers or have lost their computers because of the failure. For primary and secondary schools, it takes close to 50,000 computers, not counting the needs for the subject of the digital world that was introduced in the current school year into the first grade of primary school, which will be co-excessively introduced in the next three classes of primary education, which will significantly increase the number of computers needed by schools. It's planned, and that's what we're looking forward to, to provide nearly 30,000 computers for next year. For this purpose, loans amounting to 1,406,953,265 dinars without VAT are provided for, as well as 600 million dinars with VAT under the budget for the following year. It is also planned for this activity to become periodic, and for schools computers to be updated every five to six years. Of course we'll support this bill. The third legislative proposal that we are talking about today is the proposal for a law establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the consequences of the Covid 19 pandemic. Serbia, therefore, is the country at the European summit when it comes to funds invested in the fight against Kovid and the resolution of the consequences, not only for the health of our citizens and our health systems, but also for the economy itself. In order to prevent the dramatic consequences of the pandemic, the government adopted a regulation on 10 April 2020 laying down economic policy measures to reduce the effect of the pandemic on the economic sector. These measures covered the government's financial support to economic operators, among other things through credit under favourable conditions and the financing of minimum earnings. According to this government programme, banks approved liquidity loans to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which were already spoken of, which these companies were unable to serve on their own because of the consequences of Kovid, so the state decided to take over guarantees for part of these loans under a special scheme and under special conditions which were first laid down in the regulation and were now transposed into this legislative proposal. For this incentive measure, the government has singled out two billion euros of incentives for the economy. In view of the overall economic situation and after the end of the emergency situation in the Republic of Serbia and the situation of certain economic operators who need recovery from the economic and financial consequences of the pandemic Kovid 19, it is estimated that economic support measures should continue through this credit model. This is also the reason for the adoption of this law, which is, in fact, the legal measures of the government contained in the April of this year's regulation, which we fully support. Otherwise, what I would like to point out in particular at the very end, and we also talked about this during the 2021 draft budget law, so 700 billion dinars, or six billion euros, is the total aid of the Serbian state and citizens from the beginning of the Kovid 19 pandemic, from March to today, including new measures. That's 12.7% of GDP. Has any state taken this much of a burden of crisis upon itself? I don't think so. This is a responsible and serious relationship between the state, the president of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia towards the citizens of Serbia, towards the economy. All the measures that have been taken so far have gone to those most sensitive categories. First of all, I think of the citizens' standard of living, to preserve the level of employment in Serbia, but also towards the economy, first of all, towards the private sector, because as we have said more than once, the private sector is the future, the private sector is the circulation, the private sector on its back and shoulders holds most of the state's apparatus. There's always a question of where the space comes from, where the funds in the budget come from? It was precisely because of the government of the Republic of Serbia's reform course, the foundations of which were laid in 2014, that were then difficult, unpopular, but courageous political measures. So it was not thought of a political party rating that was then part of the ruling coalition, but was thought of by citizens of Serbia. Thanks to these measures, we have had a surplus a few years back, although they laughed at us when we talked about the surplus here in parliament, when we were doing one even redistribution of fiscal space, when in the second half of the previous year we told us that the fiscal consolidation process was over and that now that part of the surplus, one part of the surplus is directed towards the citizens' standard of living, the other towards growth and development. Of course, the pandemic has disrupted everything, but I am fully convinced that together we will win this health challenge and continue to realize those goals that we set together. So I have already said that today are the key issues in Serbia. You always have on-call critics, you always have critics, but today are the key issues in Serbia. Was there a discharge in Serbia during the pandemic period? Was there a factory closure? Has there been a drop in foreign, direct investment? It wasn't a factory closure. There was no layoff. We have a record unemployment rate in Serbia compared to the period of 2012, when it was 25.9%, and in the third quarter of this year, correct me if I'm wrong, it's 9%, so the record unemployment rate and there's no giving up foreign, direct investment. Mr. Secretary provided one piece of information. I have information that for the first nine months of this year, foreign direct investments amounted to around 1.9 billion euros, that no foreign investor has given up. Some plans and programmes have been moved, so they have been moved for justifiable reasons, but not because foreign investors have given up. I've been looking at analysis and data. Of course you're absolutely right when you say that most of the direct investment that comes to the Balkans, 60% is directed towards Serbia and it is not by accident that the Financial Times, but several years back, places Serbia at the very top of attracting foreign, direct investments. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1674	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. Order the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Aleksandar Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1675	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, today we have three laws that best paint Serbia's policy, a policy run by the Serbian government and by Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic. The first law shows the fact that Serbia is a key factor of stability in this part of Europe and shows that Serbia is ready to always, everywhere and in every place, extend its hand to all countries in the region. Another law shows that Serbia cares about the health of all our citizens, but that it also cares about the economy of our country being recovered as soon as possible and that it is easier to endure this crisis that has affected the whole world. The third law shows that no matter how difficult the situation is, or how much the crown crisis has disrupted us in some financial plans, our country is ready to invest in what is the future, in what is most important, which is our children, our students, our schools and our education system, as far as the first law and this agreement implies that citizens of Serbia and Albania can enter only on a personal map that is the part of which the previous speakers spoke about and represents only one segment of "little Shengena, ideas and visions that President Aleksandar Vucic presented and only shows how much the president, Aleksandar Vucic was right when he first presented the idea and tried to present to the countries in the region how well and useful it is for us all to represent as one team and to perform as one market. One of the previous speakers also said that if it is difficult to race today in Europe and in the world when you are a small country or a small market, fortunately because of the responsible economic policy as well as the political stability that Serbia has, it is well behind us. Mr. Milicevic has just provided information that we have had about two billion foreign investments this year and it just shows how much foreign investors trust they have in our country. What is important here to emphasize is that Serbia has always given its hand to friendship, but also to help. You had the opportunity to see it during this crown crisis when we provided our assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only where the Serb population in the Republic of Serbia lives, but also in other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You saw that when we offered the respirators to Montenegro, but at every moment of this crisis you saw the solidarity of our country. The things that have been happening in this part of Europe for the past 20 years, is something that no one wants to come back and represent an ugly segment of our history. No one expects these things to be forgotten or easily crossed over. What we all have to do together, all the people who live in this part of Europe, we have to turn to the future, we have to think about children and generations to come. So there must be something in this "little Schengen" that we will all agree on and work on together. The flow of human capital goods is something that matters most to us. If foreign investors look at all this from their point of view where they will see countries in the region co-operate, they will also view us as one whole. Mr. Vulin said it well, it seems to me that the Balkans, also told by President Aleksandar Vucic, can finally now be in a position to decide and apply together to all foreign investors to raise the quality of life in our countries to a higher new one, because it frees everything we do if the citizens of our country or if the young do go away. I think this agreement is only one in a series of steps that our country will take, and I believe for now with Albania and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, in order to make this project live as quickly as possible. There were a lot of critics, but none of those critics explained what was wrong and what was controversial about it. And then you come across a petty policy that has already become a practice in our country where it's being criticised all without being seen before or to find some reason or argument as to why it's not good. I am convinced that "little Schengen" will bring new investments to our country, that it will further strengthen the region and that we will succeed in providing new jobs for all people in our country and thus become even more competitive. Yesterday we were able to see that in the middle of this crisis there was an investment in India, 382m euros is the value of the investment, between 500 and 600 new jobs. It just shows how much trust and people who don't come from Europe have in Serbia. Such investments are necessary and our economic system can live and improve from such investments. That is why I am convinced that the representatives who do not support this government and who do not support this proposal will also support it, because it is for the general good and for the benefit of all Serbian citizens in any part of our country to live, work or function. As for the law that is an incentive for our economy, which is a guarantee scheme for crediting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, I think it best illustrates the responsibility of the government of Serbia, Minister Sinisha Mali, but also responsible policies of President Aleksandr Vukic. I tried yesterday to remember all the measures the government took on itself and that we took in this crown crisis. To be honest, I haven't been able to remember all of them, because there were so many of them, and it's commendable and proud of all of us. So, since paying off three minimum wagers, and one helping pensioners, here goes another one-time aid the other day, then that 100-euro helicopter investment to every citizen, and now a boost to the employees of tourism, and a health incentive. So we can list it indefinitely, and we will never have enough time to praise the results of what we've achieved, and the result of why we are able to do all of this today and so successfully deal with the coronary virus is the difficult economic reforms we've taken seven years ago, when President Aleksandar Vukic made an unpopular move, but he's got the courage to take those moves to keep our economy alive. We have to remind ourselves that those years we were on the verge of bankruptcy, that our economy was ruined to that level that we were wondering if we were going to have for salaries and pensions, and today, in addition to our salaries and pensions being secure and being paid off from real ground, we are able to increase them, which we are going to do since New Year's Eve. All this data clearly shows that when you are responsible for the budget you have, when you are responsible for the money of all Serbian citizens and when you view that budget as the budget of your house, then you have the means to deploy this way and you have the money to improve every citizen's life in Serbia. This guarantee scheme shows one more thing, which is that people who run the Ministry of Finance today, headed by Sinish Mali, and the next policy by Alexander Vukic, have the understanding and hearing to recognize the situation regarding lending and these guarantee schemes. Mr. Mali said that, the state provided more than two billion euros in favourable loans to the economy. So far it's been spent, at the end of November, 1.48 billion. More than 20,000 loans are granted. The only reason we haven't used all the resources is because our economy has recovered faster than you expected. Given that these funds were not spent until the end, and that we had the uncertainty that brings us spring, as far as the crown of the crisis is concerned, it was quite logical to extend the deadline for the next six months. Well done, Mr. Small, for identifying these things. These things and these loans will certainly help micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is proud of you, and to those of us who have chosen you, that you have so much hearing for the needs of the economy and for the needs of people who are somewhere and most affected by this crown crisis. I believe that everything the Serbian government is taking only proves and shows that the interests of Serbian citizens are always at the top of the SNS. We can talk about these measures for a long time. I think it's not enough time, because in the previous period we're only proud of sports successes, and now we can be proud of these economic factors for all relevant foreign factors, European or world institutions. Serbia is the fastest growing economy in Europe and will be the most successful in the coming period. All this data is for the pride of all of us and somehow citizens still can't believe it, because we spent too many years falling apart as a country and watching just how to make ends meet, which is certainly not the case now. We will certainly support this law, as well as everyone who stands before us today, but somehow citizens are always most interested in what it is they can see in their wallet, in their pocket. I believe that such laws can only be a motive for you as a government to work even more and even better for all Serbian citizens. As for the third law, which may be the biggest investment in Serbia's future, it shows us how far Serbia has progressed over the past few years, how much the list of priorities we all have as a society has changed dramatically. When we talk about schools, when we talk about investment in our future, in our youngest, it's impossible not to look back at what schools and education systems looked like to us up to about seven or eight years ago. I come from Belgrade. Many colleagues come from a place that is within, as the people say. My colleagues are coming all over Serbia. They say they have problems with their schools, even though they had them before, but with the responsible policies of Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government there is no school in Serbia in which something has not changed or has not invested. Unfortunately, my fellow Members, you often tell me - it's easy for you in Belgrade, you in Belgrade are all arranged, I have to correct you and tell you that it wasn't quite so until the SNS came to power. So we had in Leštane, a Belgrade settlement not so far from here, schools that looked like this, which were later turned into some mounting barracks, which in the XXI century, ranging from 2000 to 2009, used the Polish toilet. So in the city of Belgrade, children in the XXI century used the Polish toilet, all at the time of those people who are today the strongest critics and at the time of the man who will remain remembered as the worst mayor in Belgrade's history, Dragan Gilas, who left 1,200,000 euros in debt to the city, and parallel to those companies provided 619,000,000 euros in profits. A school like this was inherited by the SNS and this school was part of a system in the city of Belgrade. Today this school, after renovations and millions of dinars invested, looks like this. It only shows you when you want to work in the interests of the citizens of Belgrade, when you have heard of all the problems your citizens face, when you recognize what the priority is, and certainly our children, because they represent our future and the security of our country, then you know how to behave, how to invest and where to spend money. I can show these pictures indefinitely, but it is very important that Serbian citizens today have the awareness that we no longer talk in Serbia about whether a school will have heating, whether children will go to decent toilets, whether the children will go to the Polish toilets or whether the board will fall on their heads. Today we are talking about how we will also introduce a local internet network in the most rural and remote parts of Serbia where there are schools. This law also provides for the purchase of 50,000 computers to replace those computers between the ages of seven and ten. We are witnessing ourselves that from day to day, images are being changed around the world, modern technologies and the Internet are taking over the primate, and our children are working on computers that are out of date. This law also provides for the purchase of 48 000 laptops. It is also predicted that every school, every child in Serbia, will be trained for internet communication and that we are thus perfected, because if we do not now invest in modern technologies and if we do not invest in the Internet and thus in the education of our children, the future will run right under our noses. Whether we want to accept it or not, it's the present, but it's a growing future. Yesterday we were talking about crypts, we were talking about digital currencies yesterday. Unfortunately, in our country, it is still a huge unknown, but everywhere in Europe and the world, it takes over the primate. So today you can buy for these famous battles and houses and apartments and cars, and with us it is still unknown. That's why we have to follow up on the world. That's why this is the real thing, that we invest in our children, because our children represent our future, because these children will inherit our country, inherit all of us, and they will have a huge responsibility to what our country should look like in the future. I don't think people are aware of what it is and what it's like to be away from the past when in seven years, from the situation that we have to renovate schools, when we have to make gyms, because our kids worked physically in classrooms, we get to that level today and we talk about it and we discuss it, we adopt a law that allows students online education and online education and education. This coronary crisis has shown us how much this way of education and education has potential both now and on RTS, but also through various networks, you can see that we can get to any student wherever he is or wherever he lives. In this way we show responsibility and desire to invest in what is most important, and these are our children. That's why the SNS list in the previous elections was called Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. This is how we show that our children are our first priority. We can talk about all these proposals and laws from different angles, from different aspects, in different ways, but I am curious whether any of the representatives of the self-proclaimed elite in Serbia or so on. The opposition criticises these laws and what they will now be bothered by and which grudge they will find. It's okay to see some things differently, it's okay to disagree or not to think the same, that we would all be in one party, but what's now being asked as a question from this place -- who and what can be criticised and why, if it's clear to everyone that all three laws are in the general interest of Serbian citizens? We as the SNS parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of these draft laws. I would also invite representatives of the opposition who did not discuss these laws, I am convinced that they will support this, because it is in the general interest and for the very end, I will end up with President Alexander Vukic, who may best paint this situation where we are today and show what we all need and what we all have to insist on together: "When we work together and when we fight together, no one can beat us. Long live Serbia. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1676	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. He is the first vice president of the National Assembly, Dr Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1677	Thank you. Honored present, ladies and gentlemen, the Justice and Reconciliation Party is always on the side of establishing co-operation among nations, and we are always on the side of integration processes and against conflict, conflict, division and mutual and various hostilities. I therefore believe that the establishment of an agreement with Albania, i.e. an agreement between Serbia and Albania, is of paramount importance, given that much depends on the relationship between the Serbian and Albanian people in the Balkans, mostly in security, but also in economic and other respects. That is why we support this process and look forward to being implemented as soon as possible. The evil languages say that the 19th century has passed in enmity between the Bulgarian and Serbian people, the 20th in enmity between the Serbian and Croatian people, and then they say that the 21st century could pass in enmity between the Albanian and the Serbian people, which is the deepest and most sincere hope that it will not happen, but that we have all progressed civilizationally and culturally enough to realize that conflicts, wars, crimes and all that, unfortunately, has bloody marked in the past century is not in the interest of anyone and not only in the interest of anyone, but that something that no one can, and not collectively, be praised as liquid. Of course, I have a special interest in the relationship and relationship between the Serb and Bosniak people, and I hope that politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina will also find strength and realize that it is important to find a way towards the integrated processes offered, certainly for mutual satisfaction. Given everything that's been going on, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, ideologically, and what can be seen clearly by its very name, is firmly on the point that we have no future without reconciliation. True, we can't even have reconciliation without commitment to justice, even the relative human who is always missing, who will never be able to satisfy all sides, especially not all victims, their families, their communities. Regardless of all this, commitment to justice is a moral category of relations with the victim, relations with crime, and often falls into a trap, or a problem where, speaking of crime and criminals, it is often thought to be a speech about someone else. No, every man when he's talking about crime, criminal, injustice, justice, he's actually talking about himself, and we need to clarify these relationships for ourselves on an individual and collective basis. As for the Agreement that will allow digital improvements to schools, it is also something that needs to be supported and which is extremely undeniable, but we cannot forget that some schools are far from needing digital equipment. We still, gentlemen, please, have in some parts of this country, especially in the Sandzak area, a school whose buildings look like the 19th century. So, school in the village of Paljevo near Tutina, schools in the village of Vucinici near Novi Pazar and other schools, some other villages. Believe me, the roofs are sneezing, the walls are cracked, they're falling apart. So, peasants, or citizens of these villages, buy their own wood, cloths, plasters, etc. So we can't be satisfied until our children are equally beautiful, warm and well felt in every school, whether it's in the far south, north, east, west of those villages and regions that are facing difficult problems. Of course, this is a wide and large topic, and on the overbooking of schools, especially secondary schools in Novi Pazar, we will do something else at some point, but please, with all the support of these ideas and these agreements, let us not forget what is fundamental, basic, crucial and elemental. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1678	Thank you. The word is Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1679	In interstate relations, the conclusion of bilateral agreements is considered a significant step towards creating as favourable conditions as possible for further improving political relations and versatile co-operation in economic, cultural, scientific and other areas of mutual interest and importance. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania in a bid to further develop the already existing friendly relations between the two countries, confirming that respect and exercise of human rights, fundamental freedoms and principles of democracy were the basis for freedom, justice and peace in 2011 signed an agreement on the mutual journey of citizens. In order to enable contacts between people, as an important means of strengthening ties and supporting the development of all fields of activity, visas have been lifted on the basis of this agreement for the citizens of the two countries. In an effort to facilitate the mutual travel of citizens, in November of this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania agreed that amendments and additions to the Agreement would be necessary to allow free movement only on a personal map. I believe that the signing of the Agreement between Serbia and Albania on the free movement of citizens with ID cards has taken another significant step forward, and in the direction of better co-operation of the two countries and that this important document will bring concrete benefit to the citizens of the two countries, as well as additional security. As regards the "Connected Schools in Serbia" Financial Contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, it is an international contract under which the European Investment Bank approves a 65m-euro loan to the Republic of Serbia to finance the development of information and communication infrastructure in primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Serbia. The Connected Schools is a project prepared jointly by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and the Academic Network of the Republic of Serbia with the support of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. The approved loan is necessary for the implementation of the third phase of the project, which began in 2018. The phase one and two projects are already being implemented through funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, covering the construction of a wireless local computer network in approximately 400 home school facilities in phase one, and in phase two, which is planned to end by the end of 2020, another 500 home school facilities. In the third phase, a wireless local computer network will be built in about 930 other school facilities, which means that the wireless local computer network will be built in all the school facilities in our country where it is technically justified and necessary. The project is of capital importance and is an infrastructure communication prerequisite for the implementation of the digitalisation of the education system, as one of the top priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. As an educational worker, I find this project extremely important, because it will improve education, establish better conditions for teaching and learning as well as full application of new technologies in follow-up. Since I come from the municipality of Prepolje where I worked at a primary school in Brodarevo, which has nine separate departments in the rural environment, I am pleased that special attention will be focused on increasing the level of equipment of information and communication infrastructure in rural schools, therefore rural areas that are not enviable. The provision of schools with information network in rural areas would significantly improve the quality of teaching and allow for better and more successful implementation of remote teaching. This project consists of several segments. One of them is training for 250 coaches and 50,000 teachers, which I find extremely significant. When from a traditional way of working, practically overnight, a large number of teachers did not have the appropriate level of digital skills. This is unfortunately the case still and therefore this section of the project, therefore, is very necessary. Digital equipment that involves providing 48,000 laptops or sets containing a laptop, a projector and a pedestal will also improve teaching in all classrooms. Every teacher should have a laptop by the end of the project. In addition, for regular-size classrooms with more than five students, projectors and pedestals will be delivered. The equipment and introduction of WLAN networks into 1,900 schools is also important, as the wireless internet in schools is an infrastructure basis for the equipment of schools with appropriate computer equipment, digital teaching facilities and the application of a completely new methodology, not only in continuing information and keeping electronic journals but also in all teaching subjects and the complete process of education. Then there is an upgrade of the academic network in terms of network spine upgrades and the central location of the Ambres network so that it can serve a network of approximately 1,900 schools. Finally, the information equipment of classrooms in the form of security up to 50,000 computers, to replace the outdated computers of the average age from seven to 10 years. This is necessary in order to meet the requirements of a reformed curricula that introduces mandatory information, software development and computer code writing. The implementation of the project will enable the development of digital skills and enable the creation of new digital content, all in order to improve and improve education. Although the project is financed from the loan, I will remind you of a saying that "investment in knowledge pays the best interest". That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will support the draft laws we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1680	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Samir Ćosovic. Next on the list is MP Nandor Kish. (He speaks to the People's MP in Hungarian. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1681	(He speaks Hungarian to the Chairman. ) Thank you very much. In my address today, I will talk about a proposal to confirm the Financial Treaty "Connected School in Serbia" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that the SVM parliamentary group in Voting Day will definitely support this proposal. The contract was signed already in November, and the amount of the loan is 65m euros. The objective of the loan project is to continue the National Programme for Investment in Digital Education in Serbia through the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, in co-operation with the Ministry of Education, Science and Education. The project consists of providing continuous training of teachers for digital skills, providing new digital equipment, upgrading of the academic digital network and central locations and introducing a wireless local network, etc. WLAN. Before I sink into some details I'd like to stress that the project was launched last year. The objective of this loan is to accelerate the implementation of a project that should be completed by 2023. These investments are of great importance. Among them is increasing the skills of teachers and equipping schools. I think it's very important to talk about project implementation, important steps that have already been made, but also about those that follow in the near future. This information is important for the citizens of Serbia, especially for members of national minorities. In the proposal we could only find a detailed description of the whole project, which is the training of trainers, the requalification of teachers, directors and professional associates, including the provision of mentoring, training and learning programs by colleagues for effective support at school level. That means training 250 coaches and about 50,000 teachers. The second is the provision of teaching equipment from digital content. It involves a laptop for each teacher, as well as a laptop and a pedestal for an ordinary classroom with more than five students. That's about 48,000 laptops. By introducing a wireless local computer network in schools that have sufficient internet connection to be able to use WLAN, upgrade the spine of the academic network of the Republic of Serbia and provide equipment and software for central locations in order to facilitate the integration of WLAN systems in schools, provide computer equipment for classrooms in order to replace the outdated computers of the average age of about 10 years, this amounts to 50,000 computers, providing personnel for the project implementation unit in order to ensure quality implementation of the project component and to ensure compliance with the standards of the European Investment Bank and relevant EU directives and regulations, which includes requirements relating to the procurement of social and economic requirements. Since the project is being implemented in every elementary school and high school in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, these investments will be used by members of national minorities, and we in the SVM parliamentary group are particularly glad that the process improves the technical equipment of schools. Teacher training can continue without interruption. Internet security in all classrooms has been done in about 900 schools so far, which is very good news and we hope that this process will be completed in the remaining schools in the coming period. We in the SVM think it is certainly necessary to confirm this Financial Treaty and therefore we will support the proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1682	(He speaks to the People's MP in Hungarian. I thank you. The next on the list is the National MP of Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1683	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have three legislative proposals on the agenda. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that one of the flows of socialism is also state free education and education. The Socialist Party of Serbia will always support, as it has always supported, investment in modernising our education. In this regard, I would refer to the draft law on the validation of the Financial Treaty "Connected School in Serbia" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. In fact, it is a very important and useful project on which the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, as well as the Academic Network of the Republic of Serbia, worked together. The project aims to improve education and establish and create better quality conditions for teaching and learning. The project itself takes place in several phases and the first two stages are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the first phase, construction of a base local computer network was provided in 400 home school facilities, in phase two at 500 schools. In order to be successfully implemented until the end, it is also necessary to assist international financial institutions and it is envisaged that in the next period, the wireless local computer network is built in around 930 other school facilities, which would give us the opportunity for all school facilities to be technically trained, of course where it was justified and possible. The total value of this project is 111 million 290 000 euros and within the project, 50,000 teachers will undergo training and 48 thousand laptops and 50,000 computers will be provided, thus creating the possibility that all students in Serbia will have access to the Internet when they are in schools, as well as tools, or computers and laptops that they can and thanks to that internet come faster and more quality to the information they need for their education. We have set out to reform the education system to prepare future generations for the digital skills that the 21st century brings. It is also very important that our country's economic system be ready for the challenges that the digital era brings and that future generations be prepared for what awaits them in the future. Of course, the importance and importance of supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself is of great importance, in this regard. It's also about modernising the school administration, and that leaves our teachers with the possibility that they can devote more time to their students. Many professions did not exist until the last 10 years, and the forecast is that in the next 30 years, the number will only grow. The world is changing, the way production is modernized, modern technologies have already become an integral part of the lives of all of us, more and more robotics, when we talk about production and economy. That is what the future is, but also our obligation to lay the foundations for future generations in order to welcome the innovations that are inevitable, because societies that are not ready to improve and perfect themselves are doomed to live in a time that no longer exists. When we talk about the proposal for a law establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the effects of the pandemic caused by the coronary virus, the SPS will give its own selfless contribution and support for a number of measures of state economic policy that reduce the negative effects that the pandemic leaves on our economy. As of today, we fully support the proposed measures. The most challenging are our entrepreneurs and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and they are both helped and needed and the task of the state is in this regard to ensure their business. Given that there are still a number of problems in the economic sector and after the end of the emergency situation, it is necessary to continue with these measures aimed at increasing the liquidity of economic operators. It is this third package of measures aimed at preserving the liquidity of economic operators in terms of the economic crisis and its total value is 2.2 billion euros. With this bill, the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to be guaranteed and to settle the claims of banks created on the basis of approved loans from liquidity finance banks and crafts assets to credit the economy with a priority goal to mitigate the negative economic and financial consequences of the pandemic. Finally, I would take the opportunity to refer also to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of our citizens. This year, an international agreement was signed in November between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania that allows our citizens to travel only with the help of the ID card. It's actually the result of an initiative that was launched last year, which is more known as Little Schengen. The vast majority of Western Balkan citizens believe that regional co-operation can contribute positively to our economies. What I would also point out is that I believe that in these places, we as small peoples were always influenced by the great forces that were trying to make their interests come true in these areas. That's why I think it's very important and important to connect this. I think that learning about each other, learning about each other's cultures, traditions and customs can only contribute to connecting together and strengthen our relationships and, through some time, we all start to improve our co-operation together and make it more stable, but also more productive. In that sense, we go out to third markets with common forces and bring economic gain to both our citizens and our countries and thus create a better future for those generations to come. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support these laws in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1684	I thank Parliamentarian Ugljeshi Markovic. Next to whom I give my word is the Messenger of the people, Milenko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1685	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed chairman, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, dear Minister Vulin, I think it is well and it is important that we speak today, and tomorrow we vote on this agreement that represents the implementation of something we have called or what the president called Mini Schengen. It's important because these days we're witnessing interesting events that have absolutely no purpose for what Mini Shengen's idea is. They don't aim to co-operate, they don't aim to develop this part of Europe, but they have some other goals and other ideas that they want to implement, so in this context, just like those avets and scarecrows come out on a full moon and on the anniversary of Dayton every year, come out some tips and scares, remind us that we're wasting time, we're wasting our time, we're doing stupid things, we're raising kids, we're building factories, we're building roads, and we can kill each other so nicely, we're making blood rivers, and they're doing nice things to enjoy, they're watching, they're intercede and they're taking fat wages. Hence, the idea that the document on which BiH stands today is 25 years of peace in BiH, such as such, imperfect, whether everyone is satisfied, no one is satisfied, but peace is unpacking, because it is worth it when you move away from someone's foundation it will stay hanging in the air, floating in the air and so it will work. If you remove the document that brought peace, you will get what was before peace. Who's in the interest of who? It's in the best interest of all those who don't care about Little Shengen. It is in the interest of all those who, together with the Bosniaks and the Serbs and the Croats and Albanians, see as some wild tribes who will view as in a live experiment what they are doing to each other, while they will move on, while they will live well. While the mother of the Bosniaks, the mother of the Croats, the mother of the Serb or the mother of the Albanian, who died in that game, hip and narrator, their mothers will wait calmly for their sons, to raise them calmly, to enjoy their descendants, grandchildren, etc. Nothing has changed, ladies and gentlemen, from that famous Bismarck sentence to not cost the whole Balkans as much as the bones of a moving soldier. That's how they see us all together. Now the key question, for all of us, especially for younger generations, is whether we will continue to be fools who constantly stumble over the same stone, or we will finally learn lessons from our painful and bloody past, to stop what has stopped us and what has turned this part of Europe into a black hole in the world, while they talk about making, and making, bridges under the sea, making cars over the ground, discussing where anyone is going to buy a plaque on Mars, will push us to grab our necks and never arrive at the development they have, because it's not meant for us. It's meant for them. We want to change that. We want to change the essence and what created the scene of bloody conflicts from this part of Europe, which others, with our stupidity, encouraged and calmed down, in line with their interests. That's why no solution they offer is finally the solution. Here, find one, in which they intercede, and which is permanent. It doesn't exist, because if the solution isn't finally going to be very easy, if you need to raise the temperature, or if you put it down when you say – well, you've been killing yourself a lot now, you're going to be a little quiet now. Do we need that, both in the coming years and in the coming centuries? Of course not. Hence, this Mini Shengen, as an antidote and as the opposite idea to those who, I see now, have signed some appeal to unpack Dayton, the same ones who have lied and accused Serbia in that 88 Appella, that Serbia interferes in Montenegro's internal affairs, are now signing a new appeal, which directly interferes with the domestic affairs of sovereign BiH. They've come up with a good idea that they're tearing down what, as I said, this BiH today stands by, with what they would say, if we weren't lying, it's the end of the year, budgets are being made for next year, grenades are going, not appeal, this is a list of NGO activists who send a message to those who write these budgets and grant us. That's their message for a little slave portion of the beads they're going to bark next year. They'll spit on their land, accuse her of whatever you want, whatever you order, get it, and that's how it works. In any case, this is not an idea what some in their crazy attacks call it neither great Serbia nor great Albania. This is a big idea that little brains can't accept and understand. By the way, speaking of this big Serbian idea, has anyone heard that there's almost some small Serbian idea or enough Serbian idea? Well, there is neither small Serb nor Serbian enough for the simple reason that they experience sufficient or adequate, it is not Serbian at all and does not represent Serbia's interests at all. That is why they will attack everything that represents the interest of the Serbian state, especially the idea that the state of Serbia has any interest at all, because everything can be allowed to Serbia, except that it has its own interest and that it is fighting for that interest. The same ones who come up with the idea of satisfying some of Serbia's interests, call it big-serb, who whine when the Serbian Army buys a pair of boots, not something more than that, and make and represent as the greatest evidence of the new large-serb hegemony in the region, are silent when, now the other day news is published that Croatia has acquired 76 battle vehicles, "Bradley" with a large amount of "Tov" rockets, it seems to me that's how it is read. They don't find it interesting that these armored vehicles were stationed as they say, for a guard armored brigade deployed in Slavonia. The only thing they don't say is that it's in Vinkovci, at least as far as I've been able to find it, which will go on for just an hour and something to the border with Serbia. But that's not a problem, just a few boots for a Serb soldier is a very big problem and this is not a big Croatian policy, etc. So all I'm talking about is that hypocrisy. I absolutely don't care what Croatia does. It is their business, I am convinced that the Serbian Army is ready and able to preserve Serbia's military neutrality, its borders and state interests. What I'm saying is that today when we talk about this and tomorrow when we vote for this, we support what Minister Vulin said, and what President Vukic said to the UN in September of last year, which is, I'm going to say to myself, in a very large number of important speeches from the president, perhaps the strongest and bravest statement, because whoever told the Balkan Balkan people, later because of that statement was broken, treated in one way which is how and how that man should be removed from politics, because he can't, as I said, the Balkan Balkan Balkan peoples. So we are taking part in this debate, by voting for this document we are actually sending a message to the region, Europe, the world, what Serbia's policy is. Stop reading us and tell us what our policy is. This is our policy, your cooperation, free flow of people, goods and capital. What's the big deal? What's the big deal? What's the big deal? Those who want to be forever left behind, those who want to live as in the "Tradnica chronicle", forever bewildered tribes that rejoice with strangers, and one will rejoice with one foreigner, the other will rejoice with other foreigners. These foreigners will talk to each other and negotiate even though they don't understand each other, and we'll grab each other's necks. We want to put an end to it. This is the road in that direction. I want to say that I am particularly proud to be able to support a document that is going towards absolute policy change in this part of Europe and the world. Is that what we're all going to do together, if that's what President Vukic will do, frankly, we'll see. There will be great obstacles, and there will be powerful opponents, because this is what this part of the world and the peoples who have lived here in the past centuries. It's gonna be hard to change, it's up to us to try. This will be our contribution and I will be especially happy, and I hope you dear colleagues, which we will participate in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1686	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1687	Thank you, Chairman. As for the international agreement with Albania, I would like to say that we representatives of the Justice and Reconciliation Party absolutely support it. It is one policy of reconciliation that the country's largest representatives are also talking about, but also very often talked about by our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic. It's very important for people to travel, get to know each other, to bring down prejudice and stereotypes. It's from an ordinary citizen's position. As far as the business community is concerned, this is a very important agreement, which will allow people from our business community to access the market of over three million people. Albania is a great opportunity for our companies. On that market, our companies are traditionally present. This is a large Halal market where over 50% of the population are directly consumed. Halal industry is highly developed in Serbia and here I see our export chance. What I also want to use while the police minister is here is that I want the minister to inform me that yesterday in Novi Pazar, in broad daylight, we had a shooting outside the police station, that innocent, innocent people, random passersby, were wounded. It's a terrible message that people who have made known to the authorities of this country. According to operational knowledge, it's probably both the minister and the department, it's about people coming from a criminal mile, and I want to ask what kind of message is being sent to us when someone in broad daylight outside a police station takes out a weapon and shoots innocent people? Who protects these people and whose account they're doing it for, that they think they might be stronger than the state and the system? As for the proposal for a guarantee scheme law, I would like to congratulate you on this scheme that saved our economy. I'm glad we can cheer up the most vulnerable strain of our society, our pensioners, that they will be paid one-off aid of 5,000 dinars tomorrow. When we talk about fighting Kovida – 19, I want to point out that in the municipalities of Prepolje, Priboj, Nova Varosh is a very difficult situation. I want to confess to the medical staff in these municipalities and once again appeal to the competent institutions to help the General Hospital in Prijepolje, Kovid Hospital in Priboj and the Health Center in Užica. As for the Treaty between the Government and the European Investment Bank, which will allow for more than 930 schools to be connected, this is a major step forward. That's something we have to support anyway. We wish that all children, and so we fight for citizens and citizens to stay in Serbia, have the same conditions for schooling. Our mission will be fully met when Belgrade high school students have the same conditions as primary school students in Dugi Poljana, Kladnica or Brodarevo. This is how one responsible policy is conducted. This is a step in the right direction, and for that reason it should be supported. Yesterday, since I'm running out of time, I haven't been able to look back on a subscription to a media public service or RTS. I want to point out that we need a media service that belongs to everyone and that the way RTS is doing it so far, I am not personally satisfied. So one third of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia are representatives of minority nations, minority communities. Do one-third of RTS programs have them, dedicated to their tradition, culture, customs of religious identity? Therefore, if we want to, and we need a media service, to pay the subscription, then we need to make our programming scheme so that it corresponds to all citizens and citizens living in the Republic of Serbia. Also, their refusal to form a redistribution of RTS in Bosnian language by the programme council is a harsh violation of the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia guaranteeing it. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable. Therefore, I expect their media scheme and their policy to change when all these laws are passed in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1688	Thank you. The word has an interior minister, Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1689	Thank you very much. I thank the honourable MP for the support he will give to the proposed legal solutions. I'd like to answer specific questions for our public. Yesterday's shooting that took place in New Market was committed by, I don't have to speak names, it's something that determines father and son. It's about the father and son who were in the car together and they shot at the third person. Of course, both were arrested. With a quick police action, no one is left without an adequate response. I want to commend, and I will do so specifically, police officer Ivan Milojevic, who saved, literally saved the lady who was badly injured. She's really totally innocent, she was just walking down that street. I can't give you an answer on how to stop my father and my son from coming and shooting at people for no reason. There's no reason to arrest them. There's no criminal record that hasn't been handled. That's, unfortunately, what's going on. But what's most important is that such incidents are punished, that it must be punished, immediately punished. I'll remind you, and we must never let that happen, to think about crimes from the corner of religion or the nation, never, or geographical space, by any chance. I'll remind you, a few weeks ago in Novi Pazar, by the decision of the D.A., the police arrested a number of persons, persons who were members of the city's administration. There were Bosniaks, there were Serbs, there were persons who lived and worked in the area of Novi Pazar, who worked in the area of Subotica, Novi Sad, etc. The police had a real lynch for it. She was attacked on all the media, on all the portals, citizens gathered outside the D.A.'s office. Excuse me, how is that possible? I'm very sorry that no political party from that space has come out and tried to protect the police, to protect order, the law. If we so determine that someone should not go before the investigating authorities because he is a member of this nation or that nation or that any arrest by the investigating authorities is actually a cause and the reason why someone is a member of a particular religion or nation is not there to fight crime. Of course, the police will never accept that. That judiciary in this country will never accept. The state of Serbia will not accept that. All the citizens of this country are completely equal, there's no difference. Whoever abused the funds, whether he's a Serb, Bosniak, whatever, has nothing to do with it. So, the particular incident, or I believe that the prosecution will qualify this as an attempted murder, of course it will be, I'm sure they'll be punished. As far as the police are concerned, the police have done their job. She found the perpetrators, arrested the perpetrators, even helped the damaged one. We'll always do our best. It's just that you can't always say that something like that is going to happen, and that we can't predict it. We can work preventively. The greatest prevention of one police force is when those who commit crimes see that they will be held accountable, that they will be punished. It's the most we can do, and of course there's no better prevention and there's no better help than when he's working with the local community, when everyone wants to report, and say, when everyone trusts their country. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1690	Thank you. I'm guessing Samir Tandir was looking for a right to a replica or an explanation of the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1691	I want to thank you for your reply to the Minister. I didn't mention faith or nation, I didn't even say Sandzak. I told the city of Novi Pazar, it happened in the middle of the day. As for some prior arrests, whoever is guilty, and this is proven in the proceedings before the competent courts, he will answer. Whether he is a Bosniak, whether he is a Serb, whether he is a Croat, whether he is a Montenegrin, etc. But this is a very scary message, and for people living in New Market, they know that these people are famous, I think and competent services, as someone who deals with some illicit activities. So, I'm pleased with your answer, but we're just calling to see who's protecting these people from being free, and that's how they're blaspheming in broad daylight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1692	Thank you. Let's move on. The next from the list is National MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1693	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, another principled search, again three important laws, said the head of the SPS parliamentary group on the whole set of laws, counterpart Ugljesa Markovic also said, and I will refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. I'll have an extremely personal approach, so don't mind me saying that. I'm glad Minister Vulin is with us, first of all, because we've known each other for a long time, and I think we've met in my hometown, so the team before this topic is important to us, and I hope you understand the angle from which I'm going to talk about this law. Serbia's big step is contained in this agreement. I'm fully aware of that. I am not downplaying the importance of the expenditure made by the state of Albania. Fully aware of the times behind us, we now have in Article 1 a position that says – valid travel documents for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to this agreement, are considered passport, diplomatic passport, official passport, passport and biometric ID card. The relevant travel documents for the citizens of the Republic of Albania, under this agreement, are considered a passport, diplomatic passport, official passport, a valid travel document to return to the Republic of Albania and a biometric ID card. It is important, first because of Serbs living in Albania, because this makes it easier for them to visit their relatives living in Serbia, but it is also important for Albanians living in Serbia, as it will also be able to visit their relatives living in Albania with a biometric ID card. What's more important than this? The time behind us in which we crossed the border between us and our neighbouring country of Albania to passports, at least when it came to the state of Serbia, and we had from the opposite direction crossing and without any ID on both horses and donkeys and with weapons and with secret plans and with everything that led us to the epilogue that we had in 1999 or today. That's why I said that my approach to this topic would be completely personal, because I really think that when Serbia decides to forget for a moment and that another chance to someone who has roughly violated its territorial integrity and sovereignty, then it speaks in favour of the discussion of my predecessor, a colleague who spoke about how much more important tomorrow, in the sense that we need to worry about how to overcome those differences in which, I agree completely with you, one serious percentage played, played and hoped to have room to play still. I have no intention of dissipating any hatred of my own discussion, but I have a moral obligation to point to the level of tolerance, to point to the level of readiness of the Serbian state and to that hand given for who knows which time. I really think it should be provided and I really hope it won't be abused again. It is important for the citizens of Serbia and Albania to have awareness of mutual respect, the fact that we are neighbours, that it takes years, that such an agreement even makes an important difference between what is officially Albania and what is hiding or would want to hide behind official Albania, which are people who call themselves one and another, and are officially accused of crimes. It's the only way I see them, and I'm not changing my attitude. So, the Socialist Party of Serbia, or MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, will, of course, vote for a whole set of laws that are in place and concerning another joint single search, but my personal satisfaction will be greater by the fact that I vote for one such agreement, again, with the belief that it will be a better path tomorrow. I am not knowingly talking about the economic importance of this agreement, because that is what you have said. I really want this to be one sign that we still have the strength to trust each other and that we have the awareness that we can't make mistakes again. Whose were larger, we'll probably talk about it for a long time, but most importantly, our mistakes can no longer be contained in any number, let alone in the number of victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1694	Thank you. The next speaker is Professor Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1695	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. Ministers of Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vulin, I'm glad you're back with us, that you're back in the Security Sector, and that you're going to have a chance to show here, hopefully, great results as you were in the previous period when you were Minister of Defense. Today I will talk about how important it is for our country what we are doing today and what is only a continuation of the policy defined by President Aleksandar Vucic, starting with his mandate as Prime Minister in 2014, which is one policy of Serbia's integration, a policy of creating a country that has the best possible business environment, which attracts the most investment and which deals exclusively with modernising the country, but with that knowledge and promotion of this way of political opinion and action that is for Serbia's stability, that for the development of Serbia and modernisation of our country we need stability throughout the region. As the largest and most human and economically strongest country, we are obliged to encourage others, to encourage all around us to be better, to cooperate better and to work together to achieve what is the 21st century civilizational fluids, especially in the domain of politics and in the domain of economy and trade, which is a free flow of goods, people and capital, which is definitely this idea that is very dynamically implemented, which is the idea of "Mini Schengen", signed by our president, of course representatives of Northern Macedonia and Albania, which definitely gives our country a chance to trade more, to export more and thus create greater GDP and greater opportunities for our citizens and our local population. That is, of course, the priority political goal that was defined, as I said, in 2014. It is the continued modernisation of this country and perhaps, I will agree with my colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, the continuation of that idea from the 19th century of our greats and people who led Serbia at the time, by Ilia Garashanin, Jovan Ristic, Stojan Novakovic, all those people who supported the idea and who supported that wing - the Balkan Balkan peoples. What is true, and it is true, is that it is finally and finally time to give up the conflict, to put a little history and what happened in the past behind us and to do a little bit more about what is happening today, to do a little bit more about what we're going to do in the future and that, as it is definitely the idea of President Vukic, we define ourselves what is our destiny, what is our political, economic and every other future. This means moratorium to conflicts, that means working on a daily basis on linking countries, that countries are supported and that, of course, we primarily develop economic co-operation and develop one unique primarily, not political, but economic space. The fact is that the great powers of world forces and great world players are very often seen by this region of the Western Balkans as a whole region, as a set of different entities and states, but they view it as a single market, since they certainly cannot observe Albania that has less than three million residents or Northern Macedonia, or another country, as a large economic potential, but when it is united, when we have a common offer for investors and we join our economic, natural, tourism and economic potentials and capacities, that can be one potential that involves 10, 15, 20 million people, one very decent market when it comes to buying and when it comes to consumers, and, of course, everything we do to strengthen their consumer power, but also, of course, with all those investors from all over the world, to use in the best and most efficient way possible resources that we have, and of course, the most important people who are here and of all of all the world. Serbia is primarily rich in people, people who are qualified, people who are worthy, people who are able to work and meet the most demanding tasks of foreign companies with the highest standards possible, and we can see that almost daily. Yesterday we had a chance to see, President Vukic was at the opening, i.e. laying the cornerstone for the Tojo Tyres factory in India, where many people will be employed. Perhaps even more important than whether it will be 500, 600 or 700 people employed in that factory is a message, a message that one of the oldest, best Japanese companies has just chosen Serbia to invest in it, of all the countries in Europe, of all the countries in this central and eastern part of Europe and the Western Balkans, just Serbia. Of course, as serious people who are seriously involved in politics, it cannot be said that this is an accident, that someone in Japan accidentally turned a globe or a map and pointed to Serbia. No, this is the result of one huge, large, dedicated work, the president of the state, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, us here as a majority in parliament, priority SNS, to improve the business environment, to maximise crisis management, resulting in us being one of the most successful countries fighting this challenge when it comes to the coronary virus and its huge consequences on health, on the health system, on the economy. Many countries that are richer than us have had, have and will only have disastrous consequences, and to us, according to Minister Sinisa Mali, "Standard and Poor's" gives us a credit rating. For us, the World Bank, the IMF, all international relevant organisations predict one serious and major growth over the next few years. I want to say that the Mini Schengen initiative is precisely important because, for example, I will make Serbia export to CEFTA countries around three billion euros, and imports from those countries to our country are about 900 million, trade and economic co-operation with Albania is at a very low level, and we here in Serbia cannot ignore the fact that the market of three million people is important to us, that neighbouring countries are, in fact, crucial to our exports, key to our economic development, key to domestic investment, but also to exports of particularly domestic enterprises to those countries. Every new market, every new country, every new buyer is important to Serbia and important to our country and thank the President of the Republic for identifying Belgrade's dialogue six, seven years ago, and for defining the winged economy, the first one after which Richard Grenel, the special envoy of the trade trade for dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, recognised as a major provision, as something that is necessary and fundamental in order to achieve long-term peace, in order to achieve long-term stability in this part of Europe and so that all our peoples, who live in the territory of the Western Balkans, regardless of the status unresolved issues that we will solve in the coming period, because Serbia is committed to dialogue, Serbia is committed to achieving solutions that will give us lasting peace and that will primarily enable our people to develop and to gather the fruits of all our wealth and potentials that our country has. We can't fool ourselves that it's possible if we have constant tensions, that it's possible if we don't cooperate and that it's possible that this co-operation is not primarily with the peoples, the countries and entities that are next to us. Because our biggest exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina, to Northern Macedonia, are our biggest economic and economic partners from exactly the countries in this region. I'd like to say something that was agreed by colleagues who were former speakers. There was a very important role for President Vukic who was always on that line that, let's say, with Albanians with whom we have many unresolved issues, especially about Kosovo and Metohija, that we tried everything, in our history we tried everything, but we didn't try one thing, which is friendship and co-operation. This Mini Shengen, this co-operation that the state of Serbia is offering, and Albanians in Albania, and Albanians in KIM, which is a given hand for trade, is a given hand for business, it is a given hand to see that our citizens of Serbia, citizens of the whole region, will live better. This is why President Vukic is now an avant-garde in all of Europe, because he provides his hand and because he realizes that only through economic co-operation and these kinds of support, these kinds of initiatives Serbia and our people can make progress. In doing so, we do not dispute the right of any other people to progress, that it should progress, because it is also in Serbia's interest, because it is also in the interest of Serbia to export as many goods and services as possible to this region, regardless of which religion, which is which nation, it is important for us to have as many businesses here as possible, that our economy is flourishing, that there are more and more buffers in Serbia, cranes, more and more construction sites, more highways, and this is the only time that means that this can be fulfilled and that is the main importance of the vision of President Vukic when it comes to Serbia and when it comes to how Serbia should look in 2025, how Serbia should look 2030 or 2050. We can hear criticisms from those who, I guess, are glad that Serbia is not progressing, are glad that perhaps some EU liberal politicians are criticising Serbia from the European Parliament as they criticise America on various issues. But I want to say something that wasn't written much, unfortunately, which is that Serbia is part of Europe, that Serbia is already in the EU, that the SNS is hosting the end of next year of the Political Assembly of the European People's Party, the biggest party and the most represented party in the European Parliament, where the members are all the best, the most democratic, the most progressive parties in all of Europe, and such honor gets exactly the SNS. The same party whose president and we as members are foretold in some so-called so-called. an independent or so-called to liberal media that we are not for Europe, not to fill some of what they say is so-called Europe. European values and then comes a cold shower from the European People's Party and the SNS will be proposed and accepted for a party that will host the Political Assembly of the European People's Party to define the policy of the European People's Party in the coming period, where we will be working on a lot of working groups and where we will participate as a party in defining European policies. I don't understand what any greater recognition will be when it comes to positioning both this party and our leadership in Europe and, of course, in European institutions? I wanted to say one more thing after a big hack was brought to President Vukic and to the government in the previous days regarding the electricity system in Kosovo and Metohija territory. I just want to remind them of how much the same Vucic in Washington fought to get joint management with the Americans of Lake Gaza, how much he struggled that there was no chance in the future of anyone jeopardizing not one human life of our people on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but that not a single inch of our country, not one inch of our property in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. It will only be seen how brave it was, how clever a move it was, because we are today guarding and protecting our people and we will not allow it. We will apply every diplomatic means and we will talk and create a partnership with anyone who can help us to find the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as any other political issue, and this is a "par exelans" political issue for both the Republic of Serbia and the region and for Europe, we will cooperate with anyone who considers Serbia an equal partner, who thinks and who recognises, as the Americans did in Washington on 4 September, that Serbia has legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija and that it legitimately has the right to defend them with all diplomatic means. Gentlemen who have not moved and have not risen from your chair while you have exercised power for 12 years, have allowed 114 states to confess to this false state in 14 years, you have dared to criticise, you who dare to say that Vucic will admit so-called. Kosovo for Vidovdan, then someone else, then New Year's, then Christmas, then Catholic Christmas? What's this about? It's about one systematic, one serious attack, not only on the president of the state, but on this country and the attempt to systematically collapse through our financial system, all of what we have achieved in the economic domain over the past few years, up to the entry into our most important and vital interests when it comes to defending our sovereignty and integrity when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. I want to say in the end that I think that Serbian citizens can be calm when it comes to continuing the dialogue with representatives of temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, that we can hear clear messages from the United States that the Washington Agreement will be implemented in full capacity, that US DLC will remain here, that US DLC will support Mini Schengen, that it will invest in Serbia, as Minister Mali said, for a very short period of $1.1 billion. Do you know how many, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are jobs? I don't think we should be afraid much of this involving Madeline Albright in the dialogue process. I don't think she's physical either, and I don't know in any other way capable of including herself in such a high level of dialogue and what he requires, so I think President Vukic will find the best way, given that he created friendship in America, in the American Congress and the Senate, and that on both sides he will find a solution and again find the option for the United States to see us as a reliable partner and as a country that is naturally the largest ally of America in this part of Europe, as we are allies and the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, because this is exactly the greatest quality that Vukic has brought to our geopolitical positioning, which is that we are working with all and that we remain a respected and dignified state that defends Serbian interests, which defends our views, as we are now defending this policy to Balkan Balkan people, as we defend Serbia's people, our people, citizens of Serbia, Serbian people, Serbian people, Serbian people, we defend the interests of Serbia. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1696	I thank the People's MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic. According to the list of speakers, Mirela Radenkovic is the next MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1697	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, adopted the 2021 budget last week. In addition to all the problems our country is going through, we have a development budget in 2021. We are expected to increase wages and pensions, investment in infrastructure, health, environmental protection, economy and agriculture. Thanks to responsible economic policy, implemented reforms and investment in infrastructure, Serbia is today a country that can help both the economy and the citizens to go through a crisis caused by the coronary virus together. The economy is an important economic driver. The Republic of Serbia has brought a package of measures to help support businesses, which aim to preserve employment and support entrepreneurs most affected. Dear Minister Mali, I thank you for being with us yesterday and today to support the aid package of the economy. One such measure is also a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the effects caused by the coronary virus. In fact, through the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Serbia, which took effect during the state of emergency, more than 20,000 loans were granted for small, large, micro and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for agricultural holdings in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. 170 billion dinars of commercial credit under favourable conditions, which preserved the liquidity of the most endangered segments of our economy. Given the uncertainty that brings the period of the first quarter in 2021, it is important to ensure the continuation of the measures taken to support the economy. This law provides for an extension of the period during which entrepreneurs can be granted favourable loans secured by the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia. This continues to support the economy and enables full use of the funds that the state, in co-operation with commercial banks, has decided to ensure that it achieves its goal, i.e. to preserve the economy of our country. Through many indicators, we have seen that our country is with its citizens. I come from Lapov, from the municipality to the heart of the Shumadi who has 7,500 inhabitants. I must point out that everything that has been done important in the past period in Lapovo municipality has been done thanks to our country's finances. A lot's been done. The squares are arranged, there's a building of the community itself in the center, schools are done, we're working on the hall today, but the most important thing is that today we have an investor in Lapov after 10, 15 years, and that's the investor who's going to hire 200 workers in the next period. Of all that has been done and of all that will be done in the coming period, it is most important that President Aleksandar Vukic returned his faith to the citizens that Serbia is their country that cares for them. And in these difficult times, Serbia is moving forward. Serbian citizens voted for their future and the future of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1698	I would like to thank and congratulate my colleague on her first presentation at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The next speaker is the MP of the Starcevic Life. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1699	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing three very important laws, including the Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty "Connected School" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, worth 65m euros. We in Unity Serbia believe that every investment in education is an excellent investment, because certainly ignorance is the most expensive. Yesterday in the debate when we talked about the Digital Property Act, I said that the world, including Serbia, which is an integral part of the world, had moved from the beginning of the 21st century from the era of industry to the era of information society, and the strategic values of the information society were creativity, information and knowledge. In doing so, knowledge is not an honor and privilege, but knowledge is primarily an essential resource for development and profit-making. A few decades ago, namely, we could use our entire working century of learning acquired in high school or in college. Today, any professional can't afford such comfort. In fact, we are all aware that knowledge is increasing exponentially today, and it's getting even faster. One U.S. survey says that the level, or volume of knowledge, doubles every 18 months. This means that the usability of knowledge from certain areas is such that it is measured for months and years, not decades, as it used to be. What does that mean in the field of education and learning? In fact, the majority of modern - day students in their working lives will move in different, often unrelated areas of life. Formal education no longer meets the needs of the economy, so it will increasingly address informal and informative education. Learning will become a continuous process that lasts forever, so-called Lifelong learning, and knowing -- how and knowing -- what must be complemented by knowing -- where, or where to find the necessary knowledge. These rapid changes have imposed a review of the way we learn and teach, as it has become clear that traditionally organized teaching is not enough to achieve quality education. Educational systems and teachers are expected to have a different approach adapted to the conditions of the information society. The teacher can no longer be a lecturer, but he should encourage and direct learning in whose centre he is a student to use information-communication technology that is of great cultural importance for young people and to further disrupt and engage his students. Information and communication technologies in education are not and cannot be their own goal, but a means of developing skills and knowledge among students. For each teacher, it is of utmost importance to be able to integrate information and communication technologies into teaching and to benefit from the promotion of learning in which the student is at the centre. This leads to the fact that modern school must be equipped with the most modern information and communication technology, that a modern teacher must be well trained to use this technology, but also understands how to integrate IT quality into a successful teaching, practical, methodological approach to learning and involves a modern student who is interested in a creative approach to learning, researching in the learning process. Only so can our school meet the needs of a modern information society and be a strong driver of our economy and economy in general. That's why this Connected School project, which I said, is worth 65m euros and involves providing 48,000 laptops, introducing a wireless network into 1,900 schools, 50,000 computers to replace old computer equipment in schools, whose average age is from seven to ten years. It also includes the training of 250 coaches and 50,000 teachers across Serbia for the use of information and communication technologies and for the integration of these newly acquired IT skills into new teaching and methodical forms of work, i.e. the creation of modern schools. From such schools and from such schools alone will come experts, young experts who will be able to meet all the challenges of today, who will be able to keep up their professional training and lifelong learning. Such schools will be a powerful momentum for our country's economy and society as a whole. These are all the reasons why this project "Connected School" we from the JS support and we will vote in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1700	Thank you. Next is National MP Nenad Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1701	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the agreement with the Republic of Albania, since I come from southern Serbia and know how much good neighbourly relations means, and to opening borders with neighbours, and this is another indicator that President Aleksandar Vukic represents a policy of reconciliation in the region and mutual co-operation. This kind of agreement is necessary and I think that the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – will fully support our children, because everyone is given the right to leave and come without increased procedure, make their jobs, primarily businesses, because the development of our economies, I speak for two countries, is more than significant so that the entire region can develop and later join the EU. I also want to commend the guarantee scheme for the economy. I welcome the finance minister with such a package, where it is seen that Serbia's economy will have an additional chance to strengthen itself and come out stronger and stronger. As we said, we expect the best GDP, i.e. growth in next year. In addition to this guarantee scheme, yesterday there was a law in the procedure where since 2014 hardly employable categories, which have been on the labour market for more than six months, as well as for people who have lost their jobs, as well as finished high school students or with high knowledge, absolutely can employers use subsidies, tax returns and contributions of 65 and 75% of contributions. All this says that the Republic of Serbia and the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic is facing development. These things only lead the way of our economy and our country. I can only point out that these things concern primarily small and medium-sized enterprises that should be the backbone of the development of small municipalities, primarily like the Shop where I come from, since large systems like yesterday's opening are simply impossible to open in the Shop, because there wouldn't be enough staff for that kind of thing. Such things as vomiting and contributions from 2014 to today apply, such as a guarantee scheme. It is the key to the development and survival of small and medium-sized enterprises, and of course the opening of new companies. I can also praise the law of networking schools. It's today when we all see the good part and the education works on online and more than necessary. I say that such a law is right and at the right time and I think that all students, primarily in rural areas, such as the Municipality of Trgovište, have the right to use the latest technologies and to teach themselves and train themselves for future times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1702	Thank you. Mr. Djordje Kosanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1703	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Assembly, Honored Ministers Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have three important laws today and a Single Serbia parliamentary group in voting day to support all these three draft laws. My presentation today will focus on the bill to confirm the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the free flow of goods and citizens. Practically, this agreement allows Albania's citizens on the one hand to enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia without using a travel document, practically using only biometric ID cards. On the other hand, Serbia's citizens join Albania in the same way. So, on the one hand, the free flow of goods, capital is facilitated, and on the other hand it also allows for the development of good neighbourly relations between the countries of the Western Balkans, to say all five countries of the Western Balkans. If we work together in the region, then our voice is much stronger, not only towards the EU, but also towards other significant international actors. All Western Balkan countries are small countries. Albania has under three million inhabitants, Montenegro 650,000, and this mini-shengena initiative is throwing one different perspective on our entire region. We're getting a big perspective. We should certainly say here that individual performances are always weaker than when we perform with more actors. Small markets have virtually no perspective on the EU's single large market. For the full success of this initiative, mini-schengen needs to be included in all five Western Balkan countries. When I say all five countries, I mean these three countries, Serbia with our southern province, of course, Northern Macedonia, on the other hand and Albania, but also the inclusion of Montenegro and BiH. Especially now that Montenegro has won a new government, I am sure it will recognise the importance of the mini Schengen, it will recognise the importance of this initiative for the whole region. Although at some point there may have been some doubt in some countries whether this initiative might distance the EU, I now think everyone sees well that this initiative will bring us closer to the EU. If we're taking some examples from the region or beyond, I have to say that a good example is the Visegrad Initiative or the Visegrad Group. They had the potential for economic and political both after entering the EU. On the other hand, it should be said here that World Bank leaders are also talking about economic benefits that will bring a mini Schengen. When I say that, they say that in the case of the creation of a mini shengen, we will come to the point that costs will be reduced in a trade exchange by as much as 14% on an annual basis. In practice, on the other hand, this initiative should realise four European freedoms – the movement of people, capital, goods and services, and it should bring, I say, well-being for all citizens of Serbia and the whole region, not just for businessmen. On the other hand, in the time that I have left, it should be fully and openly said that the whole region has a perspective and wants to join the EU and that is our goal, but on the other hand, the EU should also be open to us to say what the future of the Western Balkans is, to say which way we should go, rather than constantly setting new and new criteria for us. On the other hand, the amazing thing is, I have to open up here to say that we're told that we 17% of our territory need to surrender. What EU country has submitted 17% of its territory to the EU? On the other hand, here I would also like to say the important thing that five EU countries have not recognised this false creation, that since 193 countries that make up the UN, more than half of them do not recognise that 18 countries have withdrawn this recognition by the initiative of Aleksandr Vukic and Ivica Dacic. So, at the very end, I just want to say, we from the EU think that we have met all the conditions and expect only clarity and long-sightedness from the EU. At the very end, let me just say that the JS parliamentary group in voting day will support all the draft laws in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1704	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1705	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will briefly comment, i.e. take part in the discussion of all three points of the agenda. Since the first confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Government of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, I can say that this is a good step and that this step is the result of the efforts that the Republic of Serbia and our president have been making since 2014 in resolving issues and improving relations with the Republic of Albania. Of course, any two countries to decide that citizens travel from one to the next without passports, only with a personal map, a biometric ID card, this is a good and positive step, especially when it comes to relations between Serbia and Albania where there have been problems in the past and where there are still unregulated issues. Especially unregulated issues and unregulated relations between the Serb and Albanian people in general in this part of the Balkans. As for the law granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to two billion euros intended for entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in private ownership, and for the Covid 19 epidemic and the harmful consequences that could have caused business problems in order to preserve the current liquidity and supply of crafts. It is the measure that the Serbian government has applied since April of the month, i.e. in April of the month. As we can see from this law, one billion, or up to one billion, to half of the funds, are set to refinance those commitments that will reach or which will reach those who are unable to implement them and apply for loans to commercial banks in the period between 29 February 2020 and 30 June 2021, and the other half, full 50% of the funds for new liquidity and crafts. Of course, it is good that these loans also contain a grace period of nine to twelve months, which will certainly make business easier for business operators and that they are at 36 months, so that they are not compromised when paying off liquid liquidity. I also note from the law that the government has committed itself to providing in each budget, i.e. in the budget for each calendar year as much as it will be necessary to guarantee credit schemes and to sign individual guarantees agreements with each individual bank. What I am missing here, perhaps in this whole story about this law, and I think I said that in one of the previous exhibitions, it is that some public companies, or companies whose founder of the Republic, have the need for these loans, or guarantees from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because they do not have anything else provided by the state, they do not have a secure market, they do not have certain special contracts and advantages in relation to private companies and private companies. So I think that some entities founded by the Republic, which are left to themselves on the market and operate under the same conditions as private companies, private companies, may have had to cover these concrete schemes and some of the other types of assistance that were in the April and July package. As for the third law relating to the Connected School project, the law shows that the European Investment Bank is participating with 65m euros in the loan, while the rest is provided by the state of Serbia either from its own funds or loans or donations. It is evident that the first phase involves the equipment of 400 schools with a wireless local computer network, the second phase of 500 schools and all of this is done by the Republic of Serbia and that is the condition that the European Investment Bank jumps in with the investment of the third phase that involves the equipment of 930 schools in Serbia, means a total of 1830 schools with a wireless local computer network. The schools will be linked to the Academic Computer Network, which already has about 300 educational and scientific institutions in the Republic of Serbia located in 50 cities connected with optical ties. Of course, there is now a need to strengthen the spine of the Academy Network because of its participation, i.e. in connection with 1,830 other schools. There will be an increase in the number of knots. Investments are also needed in the network, but I think what's most important is to increase the digital competences of teachers who are very weak on average. Of course, there are teachers who are extremely educated on this plan, there are those who are barely able to cope with new technologies, and they will not only be trained, but will later have mentors to help them solve the problems they will face in practice during the stalking period. Of course all 50,000 teachers will get a laptop. The classrooms will receive projectors and this will enable teaching, i.e. the introduction of new methods into the teaching process. One thing is when you have to explain everything to children through chalk and boards and you have nothing else at your disposal, and it is quite different when you have a projector, a laptop and the possibility that everything you have on your laptop, or a computer, is projected on the board. This will make it easier for students, first of all, to accept new knowledge. Of course, teachers whose modern technology is going to be a little bit more difficult are likely to get complicated at the beginning of the process of work and preparation, but in any case, the goal of all this is to make it easier for students to adopt new knowledge faster, better quality, and that what they need to be presented is presented in a simplified way and, let me say, a modern way. That's all. So that's three laws on the agenda today. All three are really so good that there's no reason for anyone to have any objections or doubts and, of course, I, like the others, will probably support it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1706	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Ana Miljanić. Here you go, Anna.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1707	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, is recently one of our colleagues, and I think it was Mr Kovacevic, when he discussed the budget, said this was the time he was going to learn about in books. I would add only that the actions of our government will not take the court of time to prove that they were correct. But these days, we can see the results of the measures of our government that are not only seen by those who don't want to. Respected citizens of Serbia, I am convinced that the way the Republic of Serbia will be remembered thanks to its responsible and stable policy, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, will deal with the consequences of the pandemic. Dear ladies and gentlemen, one of the points of the agenda today is the proposal for a bill on the establishment of a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy for the mitigation of the pandemic of Kovid 19, caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. The fact that despite all the measures so far to help the economy and citizenship, one such law before us already speaks enough about how responsible this country is, especially in crisis situations. I can't even imagine how these pandemic days would run if it were now in power for those who didn't dare to go to the election in June and check their trust with the people. So we have one in a number of measures to help the businessmen who are most financially affected by this crisis. Before we hear more about her today, I will remind you of some of the measures that have been taken so far, and they are directed at both the public and the economy. We must not interfere with the mind that 608 billion dinars, i.e. 5.1 billion euros, have been allocated in the first months and first measures of April. One of the items of assistance from these measures was the payment of 100 euros to each full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Regulations on fiscal benefits and direct grants to private sector operators and financial assistance to citizens have been adopted, a Regulation establishing a programme of financial support to economic operators for the maintenance of liquidity and crafts, as well as a Regulation on the procedure for issuing debt securities during an emergency. This state has made it clear that it takes care of both each individual and every economic operator. That's not where you care. A new package of 66 billion dinars was already introduced in July. Our oldest citizens, who at the very beginning of the country's economic recovery, bear the greatest burden and for which we will never be able to thank them enough, are not forgotten when it comes to the financial assistance of the state. In April, they received their first one-time aid, and as we heard today from Minister Cynthia Malo tomorrow, they are receiving a second one-time aid of 5,000 dinars. When we talk about the burden of those to whom we owe the most gratitude are our medical workers, our heroes. In addition to a one-time aid of 10,000 dinars, the state managed to permanently increase their salary during the 10% epidemic, and soon they are expected to see a new increase, already early in the year of 5%. The conditions in which they work, not only for the reason that the epidemic has brought, but before, have improved, by buying modern equipment, by building new infrastructure. Dear colleagues, sometimes it seems to me that President Vukic has built two new hospitals, one of which receives already the first patients, and the other one will be open in a few days, as Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, quoted in just four months, needs a man with a vision such as Alexander Vukic said in July and August, when everything seemed peaceful, and when we learned everything about the crown, he says that two hospitals must be built and we must invest 80m euros in hospitals and equipment. The state is also referring to other segments of society, tourism, hospitality, sports, or sports clubs, an intervention of 10m euros. As I have been professionally involved in sports, I know that many see only those aces dealing with attractive sports and making a lot of money, but there is an army of those who train and compete in lower leagues. Now that there's no audience, when the sponsor's getting smaller, they barely make ends meet. The state has just defined aid to second and first league clubs of 600,000 to 8.5 million dinars, which is also the level of their annual budgets for some of them. This measure covers nearly 300 clubs in the country. Good for our government. Evidence that Serbia is stronger lies in the fact that all its parts have managed to organise quickly and bring a number of measures in their midst. Here I would like to commend the local self-government, our cities and municipalities, who have managed to withstand the running crowns and preserve the citizens, the economy and the health system on their territory. I'll give you just one example from the city I come from, a fireman, who has about 70,000 inhabitants. Among other measures, he delivered as many as 30,000 food and hygiene packages to individual categories of citizens in the first run of the crown. The big question is whether Pogorec, both other cities and municipalities in Serbia, could bring their own national measures, that Serbia led President Aleksandar Vukic as a whole did not strengthen it, along with all its works. Imagine how far we'd go today to invest and boost the economy if the crown hadn't possessed our planet at the beginning of this year. Finally, I would like to remind the regulation on the establishment of a guarantee scheme as an economic support measure for the mitigation of the pandemic of the Kovid-19 disease, which allowed commercial banks to approve up to two billion euros in favourable loans by 31 December 2020, and the period expires in about two weeks. Due to the rapid recovery of the domestic economy in the second quarter, and taking into account the uncertainty that brings the first quarter of 2021, it is evident that the limit in question will not be reached within the foreseen period. The government, seeking to help an even wider circle of business entities by law ahead of us, envisions an extension of the period during which entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, can be granted loans secured by the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia for another six months. As well as my colleagues from the parliamentary group, of course in the voting day, I will support the bill's proposal, the reason in the end, lies in the fact that it comes from the government which has shown its power and economic stability by helping the package so far singled out more than 12% of its GDP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1708	I thank and also congratulate you on your first presentation in parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, are now in line with the Rules of Procedure for an hour. We'll continue at 3 p.m. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The next on the list is Ljiljana Malušić's folk MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1710	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen, today I will talk about the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. Why is this good? First of all, because it will facilitate the journey of citizens to both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania, and this is only one extension of Mini Schengen. I'll talk about him a little later, but I'll say it now -- it's important, for the simple reason that the Albanians live in Serbia, they have relatives everywhere, and it's very important that they have travel documents. These travel documents are as follows: passport, diplomatic passport, official passport, passport and biometric ID card for citizens of Serbia, and for the citizens of Albania the same thing, only one item changes, and that – a valid travel document on return to the Republic of Albania. Speaking of Mini Shengen, it should be pointed out that this is the best thing that's happened to us in the last 30 years. Why? We're kind of a road house, which we would say - east west, west east, we're all eyes. It's enough for us to serve the EU for a job. Enough to be called poor Balkans, but still followed – dirty and evil. No, it's not us. We are an extremely intelligent nation. We gave Nikola Tesla, we gave Mileva Maric, we gave a mass of scientists, a mass of fantastic writers, a mass of painters. We are a nation worthy of respect. We are a valuable, good, extremely correct people, full of empathy. It's rare to meet such a people as the people who live in these areas. Why am I talking about Little Shengen? Because the point of the story is to connect the region. Enough blood, enough wars. It's this European Union, not all of us, but most people want something going on here, that we're swimming in blood. Well, that's enough -- World War I, World War II, wars of the '90s, over two million victims. It was – it didn't happen again. Whoever the war wants, the war was in his house. Never again. Guys, never again. That's why this is good, to strengthen, above all, this agreement with Albania bilateral relations and Schengen trilaterals. We sit down, we negotiate, we have joint projects. We're already in it. We're doing infrastructure projects, we're doing the Nis-Pristina highway, of great importance. We'll work the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. Corridor 10 complete. Everyone said, "Wolf will never finish that corridor." That's not true. Anyone who's traveled has seen it's an extra-serial nice highway. We have direct passing, direct highway to Macedonia, to Bulgaria, we will have to Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will have to Montenegro. They all said, "There's no way to do it to Chuck." It's done to Chuck, just such a nice highway. It's done now. It's done. It's done. It'll be over next year, 30.9 kilometers. That's how it works. That's what we need. That's regional integration. It came, unfortunately, Kovid – 19, this monster, was – never repeated. We immediately made an agreement with Albania and Macedonia in the health segment, where Kovid – 19 is assisted. That's necessary, people. Also, permits will be issued as far as work is concerned, if permits are issued in Belgrade, both for Skopje and Tirana. Because of the speed. Imagine a truck standing somewhere on the border with Albania, for example, or with Macedonia and standing for 50 hours. It's a waste of money, a waste of time, a waste of nerves, and even a slave can come back. That's not how you do it. That's why we're bonding. It is certain that whoever wants to invest, he will invest more in the region than in small countries. We are a respectable country, we are the largest, we are bigger than Northern Macedonia and Albania, but it is much better to perform together on a third market. Speaking of Little Shengen, it's primarily the flow of goods, capital, people, money. Better for them, better for everyone. Someone said it was the creation of a small Yugoslavia again. It doesn't matter. We're just creating an economy, a strong economic bond. It's gotta be like that. This is a simple hand of reconciliation. Enough of the wars, let's get the standard as it is in Switzerland. I asked, when he was staying with us, Mr. NJE from Switzerland, how is it possible that in one Switzerland that has so many cantons in which the Germans, the Italians, among other things and the Serbs, the Swiss, there are no disputes, there are no wars? You know what he said to me? He responded – economic independence, people have a fantastic standard, they think about where they will go on vacations and winters, not who will kill, slaughter and others. It was – it didn't happen again. Definitely, this is an extremely good deal to strengthen bilateral relations. I'm sure everyone will vote for this agreement, and not just an agreement, but a whole set of laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1711	Thank you. National MP Daniela Veljovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1712	Thank you. Dear President, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, a capital project titled "Connected School", implemented by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications with the Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Development is a continuation of the fight to improve the information structure in all primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Serbia. The project involves building wireless local computer networks, providing secure internet access as an important prerequisite for digital classrooms, providing schools with computer equipment and digital teaching facilities, and training for digital skills for 50,000 teachers. For such an important project isolated from the European Investment Bank, 65m euros, intended for modernising schools. The aim of this project is to overcome the digital gap and allow equal access to digital education for all students in Serbia, so that young people from both urban and rural areas get equal opportunities to acquire digital skills. How important digital literacy is we see at this time of the pandemic. Modern, efficient education, digitisation is an important link of education in the future, but what fellow Members of Parliament spoke about yesterday on the topic of technology development - it must be taken into account that always a man is ahead of technology. So here's what in this case, when we talk about schools, does it really mean? As a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, at the conference held on International Child Day, which was attended by representatives of student parliaments, school directors, the NGO sector dealing with children's rights, I could hear the biggest problems and fears that plague children in Serbia during the pandemic. The conclusion is that young people are scared, that as a major problem, they are the inconsistency of online and live teaching, the technical illiteracy of individual professors, the lack of practice in vocational schools. Online teaching among individual professors is about passing on material. Social distance scares them, makes them anxiety and depressing. Thirty-seven percent of children who participated in the research share computers with the hosts, and 14.7% of children have no access to the computer at all. Because of all of this, the Ministry of Education has an important role to play in helping both teaching staff and students to overcome this difficult period and the loss resulting from separation and isolation. The ministry must have hearing about children's problems, to respect young people, to listen to their ideas, to build certainly a better society. The proposal for a law establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support to the economy for mitigation of consequences is also very important and important. The Republic of Serbia will guarantee loans granted by banks to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, agricultural land, companies, as necessary support for the revitalisation of the economy. One question for the minister. If a brief explanation of the conditions needed, let's say, to meet companies, farmers to even enter a support program like this. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will certainly give full support to this bill, because we need unity in times of crisis, such as this one. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia's policy is that man is the most important category and solidarity, support and people above all else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1713	Thank you. National MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1714	I will talk about the proposal for a bill establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy for the mitigation of the pandemics of Kovid 19. The main objective of this law is to continue the economic support measure aimed at increasing the liquidity of economic operators. Namely, through the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Serbia, which took effect during the duration of the emergency, concluded on November 31st 2020, more than 20,000 loans were granted to entrepreneurs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and agricultural holdings in the Republic of Serbia who suffered a major blow to their economic structure. Through this instrument, which was first used in this way, commercial banks in the Republic of Serbia have so far approved over 1.48 billion euros, i.e. 170 billion dinars, which has preserved the liquidity of the most vulnerable segment of our economy. The regulation establishing a guarantee scheme as an economic support measure to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on commercial banks has allowed up to 2 billion euros in favourable loans to businesses by 31 December 2020. This achieves the preservation of economic operators and the state's support for the preservation of liquidity in the Republic of Serbia. As we have shown by all the measures we have brought this year, we are fighting for every job, we have managed to preserve hundreds of thousands of jobs, unlike the former regime that once lost in hundreds of thousands. We, with proper measures, move on. It is the policy of Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. Also, the proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens, which is part of the Small Schengen initiative, directly contributes to the free movement of people, goods, services and capital, all in order to ensure good interstate co-operation and good neighbourly relations, which are a guarantee of peace and stability in the region that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic insists on, whose idea is "Little Schengen", linking the integration of the region, instead of pushing Serbia on the sidelines of regional relations, which was the only liquid of the former regime. This looks at the success of the policy of Alexander Vukic and the SNS on the regional agenda, and this championship policy we continue. Also, the proposal for a law on the approval of the Financial Treaty "Connected School in Serbia" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. A financial agreement "Connected School" approved by the Republic of Serbia on a 65m-euro loan is a project of capital importance and is an infrastructure communication prerequisite for the realisation of the digitalisation of the education system as one of the top priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of this project is to improve education, establish better conditions for teaching and learning, as well as the full application of new technologies in follow-up. Also, the development of IT in schools would allow for further development of the information society, increase competitiveness in the labour market, and thus ensure greater innovation and efficiency of work in all spheres and raise the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Phases one and two projects are already being implemented through funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, covering the construction of a wireless local computer network in 400 home school facilities in the stage of the eating process, and in phase two, which is planned to end by the end of 2020, another 500 home school facilities. Special attention is focused on increasing the level of ICT equipment in rural schools, which is not at an enviable level. The provision of schools to information networks in rural areas would significantly improve the quality of teaching and allow for the realization of remote teaching. It would also improve and enrich the teaching unit in an online environment. Electronic conferences, blogs, debates, exchanges of information, electronic testing. The project will enable the development of digital skills and enable the creation of new digital content, all in order to improve and improve education, as well as the creation of new jobs and economic growth. Also, the development of a digital education system for greater competitiveness on the global market, the inflow of new foreign and direct investments and bringing in foreign companies. The project is divided into the following components. Digital equipment that involves providing 48,000 laptops. Equipment and introduction of online networks into up to 1900 schools. Upgrades the academic network so it can serve a network of 1900 schools. Information equipment of classrooms in the form of security up to 50,000 computers to replace outdated computers between seven and ten years of age. The total value of the project, according to the bank's estimate, is 111,210,000 euros, of which 65m euros are provided from the loan, while the remaining amount of the project's value will be co-financed from other sources of funding, including the budget. Modernising society, improving education and setting up the state in the third millennium is one of the most important results of Alexander Vukic and SNS. Proud of that score, we build on it. What is offered as an alternative? Malversations of a minimum of two and a half million euros taken from citizens of Belgrade in the Adi Bridge project, witnessed these days by former associates of Dragan Gilas. Hiding two and a half million in a crowd of 619m euros, how much did Gilas's companies earn while he was in power. It is no alternative to protecting Serbia's economy, developing an entire region or modernising Serbia. It's not even politics at all. That's why Alexander Vukic and the SNS are headed by Serbia and the former Twitter regime. Everyone's where he deserves to be. That's what the people said, that's what Serbia said. Thank you and cheers!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1715	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1716	Thank you, Your Honor, President of the Assembly. Dear ministers with co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will start by looking at the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens, which the government has submitted. Namely, the so-called "Mini Schengen", as my colleagues have stated, but it is not a renegotiation to repeat it because of the public who is following us, means a common market covering the free movement initiative of goods, services, people and capital. Free movement of citizens means movement only with a personal card. This agreement allows much more than tourist visits between these three peoples. This is actually a historic agreement of small peoples offering their citizens a stable and secure future. Mali Shengen, a model for long-term peace-building in the region. A complete plan has been developed to recognise diplomas between Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. In the multi-annual plan and mutual recognition of academic qualifications in order to simplify the procedures for the interaction of labour force. I am sure that increased co-operation will increase the inflow of foreign investment in this region. When the same investors participate in these countries, the possibility of exchanging engineers and workers of deficiting professions is created. It is a good call for foreign investment and thus creates the possibility of raising the standard of living, introducing and on-call for phytosanitary inspections that allow faster moving of trucks where savings are projected somewhere around 120m euros, while only by freedom of movement, i.e. movement along a personal map, envisions savings of a billion euros. The great potential of these three countries is seen in creating a common tourist product and presenting its offer on a large Chinese market. It is estimated that 140 million people, tourists from China, when there is no pandemic, travel around the world. Their journeys do not take place on a one - state tour, but they usually visit two to four countries and travel for eight to 15 days. This agreement makes it easier for Chinese tourists to travel without a visa, making us an even more attractive destination for them. Alexander Vukic's initiative to create Mini Shengen sends a message where the region has become stable and is not a conflict zone. Mini Shengen is of paramount importance in the fight against the pandemic together. By improving trade exchange, facilitating the flow of goods and capital, it is also meant to establish co-operation among doctors in the joint fight to obtain vaccines, as well as the formation of green transfer lines, which means that our hospitals can receive citizens of Northern Macedonia and Albania and vice versa. At a time when the EU closes the borders, we want to open them up, give a hand of reconciliation and want to create good neighbourly relations. Serbia struggles daily in all ways to minimise the negative effects of the pandemic caused by Kovid – 19. When we look back from March of the month, we see that the state reacted in due time. Three minimum earnings were made and two minimum earnings of 60% of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Medical workers have increased profits of 10%, they have been paid one-time cash aid of 10,000 dinars, and from January 1st they will again receive a profit increase, as well as all those employed in the public sector. One-time cash aid has also been paid to pensioners of 4,000 dinars, tomorrow they will be paid another aid of 5,000 dinars, according to Minister Sinisa Mali today, and an increase in pensions has been foreseen since 1 January 2021, according to the Swiss formula. All full-time citizens who expressed their need were paid one-time aid of 100 euros in dinar equivalent. In five months, tax and contribution payments were delayed, targeted assistance to city hotelers came, and another minimum salary was paid the other day for all those employed in the catering industry. In addition to all of these state aids, today the proposal for a law establishing a guarantee scheme is also a measure of support to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic of the disease and Kovid – 19 caused by SARS-COV 2, which the government has submitted. The main objective of this law is to continue the measures taken to support the economy. In view of the continued presence of uncertainty in the first quarter of 2021, the state continues to behave responsibly and in due time, thus ensuring the continuation of the measures taken, supporting the economies that aim to increase the liquidity of businesses, we frame what the state has already decided to take on itself. This law provides for an extension of the period for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to be granted loans, secured by the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia by six months. This enables the economy to make full use of the funds that the State has decided in co-operation with the Commercial Banks to secure in order to preserve liquidity. All of the above shows that Serbia's response to the challenge caused by the crisis is strong and determined to help both citizens and businesses. In addition, we continue to lead a policy of peace, stability and progress ahead with President Alexander Vukic. Accordingly, I will support in the voting day the proposed set of laws, along with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic, to whom I belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1717	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1718	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs and ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers with the Co-operation are before us today and this week, a very important set of laws that are on the agenda. First of all, I am referring to the bill on establishing a guarantee scheme, as measures to support domestic economy. When we say domestic economy, we really think that the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia has come out on time. Already in March, we came out with decisive measures that helped our economy survive in a difficult time when the pandemic of the coronary virus occurred and in this way we are adopting a law today that will allow our businesses to continue through guarantee schemes to apply for favourable loans, loans that will be used exclusively for liquidity and permanent crafts. So these loans will not be used to purchase equipment, to refinance old loans. We continue to give our businesses the opportunity to obtain funds on favourable loans and thus to give micro, small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to continue to work and survive in this difficult time that has hit the whole world. Twenty thousand credits have been split so far, not including loans from the Development Fund, it's certainly a large number of loans. So that's how we showed that we're going to have enough money for everyone. Exactly the measure we've taken, so the two billion euros we've given our economy is showing that it's already been used somewhere around a billion and 480 million, which means that we still have these six months of an additional deadline for all of us to apply and thus continue to help the domestic economy. Not to mention that we invested a total of six billion euros, that package to help our economy, our health system when it was necessary, and that regardless of all these investments, we are still at that level of masturbation, or that GDP does not exceed 60% of our public debt. Therefore, I would like to quote an example, Montenegro, today, which took 750m euros a few days ago, at a much more unfavourable interest rate of 2.95%, therefore, unlike Serbia that owes at a much more favourable interest rate today, Montenegro has not given a single dinar, or euro to its businessmen, or to its economy. Once again, GDP exceeds 100% of the public debt, and this is a clear example that we and with these support measures we adopted have brought this public debt to the level of mastery, and in this way we have in no way affected the increase in public debt and I think this is the right example of how the state today refers to domestic economy by non-hazarding macroeconomic stability. I would just like to mention here, when many of them honor us on the side and tell us – in Serbia a narrative is created that it is more helpful for foreign investors, and that domestic investors are neglected many, they keep saying different conspiracy theorists, that we are helping foreigners here much more, and we are putting domestic investors aside. All they need to know is that the state, this government, or the Government of Aleksandra Vucic, in 2015, passed the Investment Act, and thus we have actuated the previous law that was in force while they ruled Serbia, while Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and others ruled Serbia, while it was in force of the Law on so-called. Foreign investment. So sometimes there's really foreign capital being promoted here, today's not the case anymore. We adopted the Investment Act, which absolutely, completely foreign investors were evened out with domestic investors. You have a situation today that our man can take subsidies to a new job. For example, you have municipalities that are less developed, where it is enough to invest 50,000 euros and hire 10 employees and thus get incentives. So we've created an ambience where we help a domestic businessman, where he's no longer favored by foreign capital. After all, we have shown these measures that, above all, domestic capital was in our interest, that we have protected our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and thus preserved liquidity, preserved jobs, preserved our lives in the economy, and allowed our people to have stable incomes, regardless of the crisis that has hit us. As for the second law, which we hope to adopt tomorrow, and as regards the contract with the European Investment Bank, we, even in these difficult times, are not obliged to pay salaries and pensions, but to take advantage of the credit that each school, primary and secondary in Serbia, will digitise, invest huge funds that every child today has a high-quality school programme, that each school, secondary and basic in Serbia, so 190 schools will receive vyrles, receive wireless internet. With this project we will continue to invest in whatever is necessary - 48,000 laptops, 50,000 computers, training for 50,000 teachers. We show that even in this difficult year that has hit the whole world, or the next, in which many other countries' budgets will be directed towards recovery from this whole pandemic, that we can continue to invest money in whatever is necessary. So that we want our quality of life to continue to improve. So what we're saying today is that when the state is in charge, it's in charge of what's necessary, it's in charge of those projects that are necessary for the quality of our lives. Here, prepare for, yesterday we finished the Cačak-Susica section for Zlatibora, 11m euros from the state invested and revitalised that road route with a World Bank loan. That's how we showed that it was necessary. At favourable interest rates, we provided this loan and helped to improve the quality of life. In this way we show that it is necessary and when we are in charge of doing it transparently, rationally, at low interest rates and to improve the quality of life. We don't spend money on wages and pensions, we give money where it's most necessary. . When I am already talking about my municipality, in Zlatibor, according to the latest budget, we will allow the Ministry of Education to be involved and that finally the Hall of the elementary school "Dimitry Tucović" on Zlatibor is put into office, and that is another indicator that the Ministry of Education has both heard and heard about small municipalities and for every municipality. There are no municipalities in Serbia that have not received school, kindergarten, home of health, which has not received a new route, highways, regional directions. We have invested enough money in each part of Serbia, and this is in fact an indication that this government cares most about the lives of citizens and that in this way we want to continue to promote our country. After all, the fact that today our country and President Aleksandar Vukic are suffering attacks from all sides is not entirely accidental. So, you have a situation where today, from German tabloids to Croatian, Montenegrin, all possible from the region and the world, there is talk of some kind of large-scale Serbian policy, many say that Serbia has money to finance its country-wide country-wide people and thus tell us that we have become, again, a factor of instability. Imagine that, when we're weak when we can be told how to do, what to do, when some others here rule this country, then we're a factor of stability, and today when we can help our country here, that every municipality gets both school and hospital and improve the quality of life and that we have enough money to help our fellow countrymen living in the environment, then we're a factor of instability. So when we're weak then we're a factor of stability, and when we can help, then we're a factor of instability. That is why many people are bothered that we are also giving this new budget of 50m euros to the airport in Trebinj, we are still investing in our return village of Sunny Valley in KIM, where we will provide apartments for 1,500 people. Many say, imagine the shame, Serbia gave to Serbian organisations in Montenegro 12m euros for the Serbian Orthodox Church. So, when we give and help our people, it's only good when we're in a defensive situation, when we have to justify ourselves and tell everyone that we're guilty of everything that happened to the Balkan Peninsula in the previous decades. We today show that we care about the lives of both people in Serbia and our countrymen everywhere in the environment. We will continue to do so, and regardless of what the frontal attacks are coming on both Republika Srpska and our relationship with KIM, and on our relationship with all Serbs in the region, we show that for us only the most important thing about what the citizens of Serbia think and what our people think about the environment because we are obliged by the Constitution to keep all Serbs in the environment. We are under the Constitution of the states of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it, but above all, the state of the Serbian people. It is an answer to those who today call for no Republika Srpska, for Serbia to accept independent Kosovo, for Serbia to accept the role of the bad guy, as we had until eight years ago. This will no longer be the case, and therefore we will vote here for laws that will allow for a better life in Serbia, which will allow Serbia to continue to have enough strength and economic, political and military to respond to all the challenges that are being put before us. Once again, I support all MPs and call on us to support this package of laws in the voting day because it will allow for a further continuation of the progressive, proactive policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1719	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marija Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1720	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow ministers, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have three draft laws on the agenda that continue the good practice of promoting our country. I would focus on the draft law establishing a guarantee scheme as measures to support the economy to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic of Kovida-19. What I must certainly point out is that our country is one of the few countries in the world that has managed to find a way to help its economy during this crisis, and that is because, at the head of our President Alexander Vukic, it has managed to find a way to take the burden of this crisis upon itself. I will remind the fact that from the beginning of the crisis to the present day, our country, as measures to support the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, has singled out nearly six billion euros, accounting for 12.7% of the Republic of Serbia's GDP. As for the guarantee scheme, which I wanted to talk about today, what I want to say, reminding the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that it took effect during the duration of the state of emergency and by 31 November 2020, through this guarantee scheme, more than 20,000 loans were granted to entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and agricultural holdings in the Republic of Serbia. In this way, commercial banks in the Republic of Serbia singled out around 1,048.000,000 euros in aid to the economy and allowed the economy to continue living in these times of crisis. By 31 December 2020, it is planned to allocate up to 2 billion euros in aid to the economy. As for these measures of economic support, they will certainly enable our economy to continue to live in times of crisis and what is most important to us is that we will not have a drop in economic activity. I will remind our citizens that on Monday, the state began paying out both the hotel and the caterers of one minimum profit and that tourism, as the most vulnerable segment of the economy, granted direct subsidies as early as August, and in the amount of 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room. This kept a large number of jobs in our country. In addition, I will stress, our economy certainly works great, that Serbia is building, that roads are being done, hospitals are being done, investment projects are being realised, and that this strong picture of Serbia removes the fear that Serbia will kneel as a result of the Kovidom-19 crisis. I would also like to mention now the proposal for a law on "Connected School" in Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. This project is worth 65m euros and is of capital importance to our country. This project will allow for the improvement of education, the establishment of quality conditions for teaching and learning and the full application of new technologies in schools across the Republic of Serbia. What is most important is that every school in the Republic of Serbia will get a local computer network and I will highlight the moment in which this project is implemented. When we are hit by the Kovid-19 crisis, forced to carry out our teaching remotely, it is very important to allow conditions for this teaching to be realized and therefore this is one of the key moments in which this assistance has arrived. The project will provide training for 250 coaches, 50,000 teachers and schools in the Republic of Serbia will receive about 50,000 laptops. The accent has been placed in rural areas, which is also very important for our country, since there are many schools in our country in rural areas, which this assistance will also mean. Now I would also like to refer to an agreement with Albania that shows what our President Aleksandar Vukic is doing to establish and maintain good relations with neighbours. The "small Schengen" initiative will make sure that we formally resolve all obstacles and enable our citizens to go to Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania only with the help of ID cards, as well as vice versa. This agreement will bring our countries closer both politically and thus allow the movement of goods, capital, people and services, which will certainly and how it will mean to our citizens. These are things Serbia is certainly proud of, and that is what is not forgiven in Serbia at all. Results, then commitment, responsibility, then concern the interests of their citizens and commitment to their country, as our President Aleksandar Vukic does. That's why we have constant opposition attacks, due to the lack of results and concrete moves, they reach for all sorts of low blows and their idea is certainly to lie, accuse, invent and panic each day, but I guess that's why they only have the support of 2% of voters, because their policy is based on exactly that, on empty stories and lies. In the voting day, I will certainly support the drafts of these laws, because only strong Serbia wins, and Serbia led by Aleksandra Vukic is certainly the strongest Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1721	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1722	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Head of National Assembly, Mr Sinisa Mali and State Secretary Savičić, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about very important agreements for the Republic of Serbia concerning our fiscal policies, the procurement of medical equipment from other funds, as well as education. When we talk about education, we must bear in mind the importance of our President Alexander Vukic's policy, which in 2012 recognized that high quality education is essential for the survival of our society. Without quality education, there is no successful state, and when we talk about the importance of education, we must bear in mind a nice thought. Ours, I am free to say, the greatest mind, the enlightener, the greatest erudite of its time, Dositej Obradović recorded a very nice thought in the book “The Books, my brothers! The books, not the bells and the promenades. “ Our President Alexander Vukic, when visiting Israel, is familiar with the legendary Israeli leader Shiman Perez with the dual education system. This concept of dual education implies a win-win combination between a system that involves an ex-teacher's class, meaning a strictly theoretical way of learning on the one hand, and on the other hand, the acquisition of practice and the acquisition of skills already during schooling. We have this system today in Serbia, thanks to Alexander Vukic and such a system exists in powerful economies such as Israel, Austria, Switzerland and Germany. This kind of education gives our young students, i.e. students, that they can start their own private business after completing their education or that they have already started because they have gained a certain working experience during their education. There is also the intention of our authority, President Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, to apply this system of dual education to higher education when it comes to basic vocational studies, master of vocational studies, as well as basic academic and master of academic studies. This will enable, of course, our newly completed students to also start their own business or get hired immediately after schooling. In order for such a model to be significantly improved, the whole process of education needs to be digitised further. I note further, because our government has already begun this process and he, I may say, has taken a swing. I'll mention the electronic log. It's a good system that allows parents to have insight into their children's education, into the course and process of schooling, which is a very significant security but also educational element. We also equipped 10,000 digital classrooms, but we also got 36,000 microbits. For those of you who aren't familiar with it, microbit is a small pocket computer. It enables our children to get to know the world of programming and coding in one fun way, which can be very helpful for them in a further career, all within the framework of the “ Schools for the 21st Century”. These are, of course, all the successful indicators of our educational policy. Information is, as we know, a mandatory subject in all schools, and there has been an increase in university enrolment quotas when it comes to IT and computer engineering studies or software engineering. I will give a fine example of the master of academic studies at the University of Belgrade's three rectorates, which represents a certain compound, are multidisciplinary studies between socially humanistic sciences on the one hand, but also technical and technological and natural mathematical on the other. The government of the Republic of Serbia also signed an agreement with the European Investment Bank worth millions of euros at today's session of the National Assembly. It is one loan that will allow us to implement a whole project of related schools in Serbia totaling 111m290 000 euros. The rest of the money will be directed directly from our budget, but also from some European funds in the form of donations. The project envisions the modernisation of the entire education system in Serbia, especially when it comes to the Academic Network of the Republic of Serbia, so-called. ‘AMRES’. The intensity is that it is working to strengthen its security component, to protect these databases, and also to increase the speed of the information flow. Of course, the intention is also to introduce wireless vyrles or wf or WLAN network in our schools, but already in 880 schools is this vyrles system introduced. Of course, the total number of schools with this system is planned to be 1,900 schools. The expected outcome of this project is to provide advanced electronic services that are necessary as no further development of electronic log systems, various digital educational content, but also remote learning systems, which has proved to be very useful in these crisis crown times. This project also provides for the purchase of 48,000 laptops with accompanying equipment or projectors, as well as the purchase of 50,000 computers to replace those old computers between five and seven years of age or seven and 10 years of age. Also, this project provides for the training of 250 coaches and about 50,000 teachers. The objective of this project is below 1.) improving education, under 2.) Modernisation of learning means and below 3.) digitization in the course. The development of information and communication technologies enables greater competitiveness in the labour market, which later affects our overall economy, the growth of our entire economy and the creation of new jobs. Special attention is directed towards some rural and undeveloped areas, and it will first get these vales systems, as well as laptop computers and desktop configurations. Speaking of schools located in these rural, undeveloped parts of Serbia, we must bear in mind that the previous former yellow, tycoon, regimeal government, these schools were not at all interested. They've invested so little in our schooling. Imagine when the SNS came to power in 2012 one of his first tasks was that all schools in Serbia had a normal toilet. Imagine that in the 21st century, we have a decades-old dream of a normal toilet with a functional toilet, or toilet paper, soap. It was a mental noun. That's the most basic thing. Those members of the former tycoon regime, that Đilas, that Jeremic, that Tadic, did not invest, let alone obtain some modern IT systems, computer equipment, network equipment and other things. All the yellow tycoons did were exclusively some cosmetic repairs or corrections of certain curriculas and programs, some textbooks, but nothing concrete was done. Today, thanks to Alexander Vukic, we have a constant acquisition of new equipment, digitization of the overall process of education, training, continuous training and increasing their earnings, reconstruction of school facilities, greater choice of curricula when it comes to high school education, the introduction of new programmes for gifted students, but also new specialized IT departments in schools, dual education, a strong network of scientific and technological parks, reformed vocational schools. Some vocational schools are today joined into modern academias, various master-academic programs at our universities, as well as established centres for Serbian language, culture and literature at prestigious world universities. All that thanks to Alexander Wolf. Long live Aleksandar Vucic, lived by SNS, lived by Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1723	National MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1724	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Mali, you wouldn't be in your place for any money in this world, or in the place of anyone in the government, or in the place of the president of the state. Anyone who says it's nice to be in power today, he doesn't know what difficult times are waiting for us, and what consequences this whole thing is going to leave behind what we have right now with the coronary virus. I've been trying for two days to see where the hurricanes are hitting on us. It was clear to me the moment Deutsche Vele published that scandalous text about how we are filled with imperial aspirations, how Aleksandar Vukic is an imperialist who wants to secede Republika Srpska, etc., etc. It was clear to me that, for some reason, a great European force had set out rather brutally on top of us. Don't forget, Deutsche Vele is the media of the German government. So let's not hide from the public what's going on. Of course that's where Croatia joined, not to mention official Sarajevo, or the Federation of BiH, which barely welcomed it all. I think the terrible attacks on Republika Srpska will go. It's just amazing how they always tell us that we should tear the country apart, tell us about decentralisation, I don't know what, but in BiH, where you have even three constituent nations, and there they'll tell us that it's very good to have everything centralised. When you ask them, so wait for the people, how do you double the arches? Well, they're one for Serbs, and the other for others in the Balkans. We can be torn apart by territory, completely normal. What is incomprehensible to me and what I am really disgusted with, and I am really disgusted, are people in Serbia who support it. Is it possible that someone can be to that extent masochists, to this extent, have now a colloking name - auto-steamist, that their own country spits to that extent, and that even wants centralist Bosnia? You have people in Belgrade who truly hate Republika Srpska. They call it the Republic of Forest for no reason. They'll grow stronger here, they'll get serious funds. I must admit, I doubt this government will be able to withstand these attacks, because we don't have those resources and we don't have those resources to defend ourselves. I have to admit, I'm not sure we've got enough clothes to defend ourselves from the terrifying attacks that will follow in some future period. So what we have to do is strengthen the economy, bring as many foreign investors as we can. Yesterday I was really thrilled, although I don't think Alexander Vukic will forgive what he said we're not going to pay for another gas rocket, but we're going to take the gas that's cheapest for us and of course we're going to build a Turkish current, as it's now called, but the others aren't going to forgive us because they want to make a dependent country. Serbia is only good to them when it is on its knees, when it is kneeling, and when Serbia wants to stand up, when Serbia wants to be an independent, sovereign country, and finally when Serbia wants to have certain economic domination in the region, which in some way belongs to it, because we are the most numerous people in the former Yugoslavia, then it is terrible, then Serbia must stop at any cost. Just look at this scandalous case by Montenegro, where the new government brought by the Serb people in Montenegro, today accuses the leaders of the Democratic Front of being Russian. It's a scandal over scandals. What's the only reason? Because both Mr. Andrija Mandic and Mr. Milan Knezevic are in very good relations, which is natural and normal for the leaders of Serbia's largest options to be in good relations with the queen of Serbia. Without any mud, the Montenegrin government has branded them as pro-Russian elements, and for the unbelief of the Serbian people, the government there has failed. Why am I apostrophe now? We really need to boost the economy. If we continue this way, Mr. Mali, the right to tell you that we are expressing suspicion that we will be able to strengthen anything. I respect all the doctors of this world, especially ours who are great heroes and heroes, and I'm sorry we don't have that applause for them at night because some angry people have ruined the applause for them. Guys, we can't close the country anymore. Let's not do this. I don't know if you know this, but Boris Johnson, for example, today in England decided that there is no closure, especially for Christmas holidays, but he's going to do normal shops, because the economy has to work. With all due respect, but you know, these doctors have to pay. They'll pay if the budget is filled. If there's not enough in the budget, then how are you going to get paid? The economy, the people, it has to work. I'm sorry about the last few days, maybe even personally, sometimes I've been hard on the crisis staff, but it turns out I'm right. The other day, they admitted to us that there was no cure other than the vaccine and that their measurements were not so successful, which means that the only measure – let him normally do everything, and tighten the controls, respect the distance, the mask that he wears. Punish at the end of the day who doesn't. We can't stop the economy anymore because if you close a tourist facility, first of all, it's not just that the caterer is going to fire the workers, but that's where the suppliers get hurt, and do you know how wide the chain is, how many people are out of work? I ask you to really influence us to stop closing up, because we're going to destroy the economy, and we need the economy right now. Don't let us have any illusions. The Corona virus exists and I'm not an antivaxer, like someone tried to introduce me somewhere. On the contrary, the vaccine is a civilization achievement and I can't wait for the vaccine to come, because it's really going to save us. But I'm not sure that this will come so massively and quickly to the extent we need it in Serbia, since we could read some estimates today that only 25% of the population will be vaccinated in the United States by the end of 2021. In Great Britain, about 50%. We are a far smaller country, economically weaker than those great forces. Of course, the great one will take hold of it first, and certainly they will use their advantages, their strength, their strength, the force to develop their economy first. For the little and the poor, what remains. That's right, unfortunately, in the world and that's something that's the cruelty of humanity, but that's it. In accordance with that, we can no longer shut ourselves down. We can't tear down the economy. We simply have to accept to learn to live with the virus, with all the risks it carries. But it's better to tighten up control and work and let people do it than to do it like this. Because, you know, theoretically, what are we going to do, hopefully the vaccine will be found, but, let's just say, imagine it hasn't been found or that it's not enough and that this is, like, 10 years, so are we gonna go to school for 10 years? Are we going to close all the stadiums for the next 10 years, cultural events, etc.? It's not a solution. The solution is to learn to live with the virus and adapt to the situation as it is. Please, it's a good thing we're helping the businessmen, it's something I really welcome, but I'm afraid it won't be enough. After all, it's not the state of the milk cow, so you can milk it whenever you want and give it to people. It's just that everything has its end. You can't get dry-drunk sometimes. This country is the only one in the budget that has what we achieve from business activities. It is very positive what this government has done, I really want to say hello. Sometimes the budget is filled exclusively by state-owned enterprises, or taxes, of which I don't know what else. Today, the budget is mostly filled with economic activity, because our economy is growing, our economy is growing. We're ready to welcome, we've, in a way, welcomed this difficult situation. It's something that Alexander Vukic and all the people who are his associates are absolutely commendable for what they've done. Look at the city of Belgrade. For example, today we saw Mrs Tepic criticising construction in the city of Belgrade. My people, in their time, I don't know if we had four or five cranes in Belgrade. You could have climbed the Belgrade girl and seen that nothing had been built anywhere. You have thousands of construction sites today. I guess it's positive to build it, huh? I read, an obscenity Croatian journalist tells us that old Belgrade once had a soul, and this one, I don't know, lost his soul. It was a great soul, when you have prostitutes in that park down by the train station, when you have rats, snakes, rusty ships. If it is the soul of Belgrade, I am against such a soul of Belgrade. I just love Belgrade like this, modern and modern, as you have "Belgrade on Water" where we will earn money. I guess that makes sense. And leave something to our children. After all, as Belgrade develops, you will see at the price of squares. How many other cities are developing. Look in Novi Sad how much the price of squares has jumped and everything is bought and everything is sold. It means that the market exists, so this people still have some money somewhere, that they've managed to earn something somewhere, and that's all due to this government. Realistically, it's a lot better to live. You can buy on credit. After all, the loans themselves are more favourable when you take into the bank. In their time, you couldn't take credit, 17% was interest. Today you can take a very favourable housing loan with 2% interest, with 1.5-2% interest. According to this, it is now clear as a day that some economic stability is achieved thanks to the current government. In order for that to be further, we have to keep working. I'd like to appeal to the people of the C.I.A. to break up more with the closing requests. We can't afford that luxury anymore while we're destroying the economy. We have to evolve. We're having a hard time, we have to defend ourselves. We will have terrible challenges, and I believe Mr. Mali, that you will contribute to the defense of such challenges, that is, the kind of trouble that will befall us. I am deeply aware that you know them too and that by common forces we will have to defend the country in every way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1725	Thank you. Just what Mr. Djukanovic said, as journalists repeatedly asked me why the Assembly works, etc. The National Assembly is the most representative body and body of government. Our job is to work under conditions of crisis and to manage the crisis. So, not only will the Assembly not stop working but it will continue to manage this severe crisis with the Serbian government, the president of Serbia. It's our role and mission. So I think it should be clear to everyone that even though there are infected MPs and the sick, that we are taking all the measures here, as far as possible to protect ourselves from the infection, but a crisis has to be managed by someone. In that sense, there is no dilemma that the National Assembly will continue to work and not only will it continue to work, but we will have so many sessions by the end of the regular session, that we will be working almost day after day in that last week. Since there are no more registered on the list of MPs, might anyone else want a word from the committee's rapporteur, group president, authorised representatives, the minister? He doesn't want to. Then I conclude a joint principled single search on the draft laws of paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 of the agenda. Minister Mali, I thank you for your presence. You haven't gotten rid of us yet, and we're expecting you tomorrow. We're moving on. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you, since we have moved on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 18, 19. 20th agenda, pursuant to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that she has been invited to attend the session of Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic, Governor of the NBS. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 18, 19 and 20 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that it is in line with Article 97, although you all know it, the total time of debate for MPs' groups is five hours, and that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of MPs' groups. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a member of the Fiscal Council, submitted by the governor of the NBS, the list of candidates for the REM Board, which was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information and the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Do the proposings, or the proposing representatives, want a word? It's Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1726	I thank the President of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Information, I will brief you on the process of proposing candidates for the selection of REM members, which was carried out by the Committee on Culture and Information during the previous period. First of all, I would like to introduce you to the fact that the Committee on Culture and Information on 27 October 2020 received a notice from REM that Oliveri Zekić, a member of the Board of Regulators, suspended the mandate of 24 July 2020, and that Aleksandri Jankovic, member of the Board of Regulators, expires on 3 March 2021. Acting in accordance with Article 10(1) The Law on Electronic Media, which is prescribed that the National Assembly's competent service publish a public invitation to propose a candidate for a member of the Council, at a session held on 4 November 2020, the Committee decided to launch a procedure for proposing candidates for the selection of REM members. The Committee also found the right to propose candidates to be authorised by legislators, in this case the committee responsible for the National Assembly and the Church and the religious community by common agreement. I point out that, acting on point 5 of this decision in accordance with Article 10(1) of this Law, we published a public call to propose candidates for the selection of REM members on 6 November 2020 in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, on the National Assembly's website and on the daily list "Politika". Also, a public invitation was delivered on the same day by written means to all MPs in the National Assembly, or by independent MPs. On the basis of Article 10(2) of the Law, parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, or independent MPs together, as well as churches and religious communities had a deadline of 15 days, i.e. until 21 November, to submit to the Committee the reasoned proposals of two candidates for the REM Council. The right to propose two candidates for the REM Council to be elected on a proposal from the board of directors was only used by the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, who proposed to the Committee on 18 November 2020 the names of two candidates Oliver Zekic and Milos Gajovic. Also, the right to propose two candidates for the REM Council to be elected on a proposal from the church and religious communities was used by the SPS, the Islamic Community of Serbia, the Belgrade Archdiocese, the Jewish religious community, the Evangelical Christian Church, the Slovak Evangelical Church, which also delivered the names of two candidates to the Committee on 20 November 2020, namely Aleksandra Jankovic and Snezana Miljkovic. At its meeting on 24 November, the Committee discussed these two applications submitted, as well as the evidence annexed to these proposals, and concluded that all candidates of the organisations applying did so on the basis of the conditions which were met and prescribed by the Electronic Media Act. Also, this list was published on the National Assembly website, and lastly, I note that the Committee held talks on 26 November with all proposed candidates. At this session, candidates had the opportunity to present themselves, while all the members of the Committee, as well as others, eventually, MPs and the media, had the opportunity to ask candidates questions from the work of their future work and their professional experience. In this sense, in front of you today's debate, you will find the names of four candidates, one on behalf of the Committee of the National Assembly, the other on behalf of the religious communities, since REM, in particular the REM Council, is an independent and independent body, I ask you to choose candidates for the REM Council on the basis of their professional experience, and everything they have managed to do for their professional life in the domain of the media and information, properly and by conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1727	The word is Alexandra Tomic, on behalf of the second committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1728	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members, today we have two agenda points where the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds is. One is a proposal for a member of the Fiscal Council. The National Assembly held at the 4th session of the Second Session, which was also held on 26 November 2020 and decided to suspend the post of former member of the Fiscal Council for the reason that one member resigned because of his departure to another post. So, given that until then, from the day of resignation to the constitution of the new assembly of parliament and until the agenda, we had an obligation to propose a certain member. In accordance with the provisions of Article 92b, paragraph 1. The law on the budgetary system, members of the Council, are proposed by the president of the Republic of Serbia and by the President of the Fiscal Council, while two members, one is proposed by the finance minister, and one is proposed by the governor of the National Bank. Since the member who resigned was proposed by the governor of the National Bank, then, on the principle, the proponent for the current member of the member of the Fiscal Council was also governor of the National Bank. So, the resignation of a member of the Fiscal Council was submitted by a member when he was elected to the governor's proposal. The governor proposed Dr Bojan Dimitrijevic as a new member, by letter dated 30 November 2020. We agreed to this proposal at the Committee session. Based on the professional qualifications we had, the proposal to see, which has arrived from the National Bank of Serbia, is Dr Bojan Dimitrijevic, who meets all the legal requirements to perform that function, expert in this area of economy, economy and education, as well as co-operation with domestic and foreign institutions. I'd just like to say that in addition to his long career as a professor, he's never left his scientific work since he graduated in 1989. He published more than 50 professional papers. Today, when we talk in general about areas dealing with macro-economics, the economy of the public sector, as well as economic analysis. But it should be said that he has a lot of experience in managing public finances and leading the state because from 1997 to 2000 he was vice-president of the government, the city government of Belgrade. Then, from 2001 to 2002 as a member of an expert team for the macro-economics formed by the EU. He participated directly in the programme of adopting a strategy for the development of trade and tourism which was later adopted, but he served as MPs from 2004 to 2007, and later the minister for this area of trade and tourism. Therefore, there is a lot of experience in the state and functioning of state institutions, so we believe that on the basis of all this, and since 2012, he has been a member of the National Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Economic Recovery chaired by the Prime Minister and has been the author of the programme for Serbia's economic recovery, as well as a member of the SIEP Management Board, in the context of the National Council, together with Professor Đuricic. That's what I think, in addition to his teaching profession, he's given really great support and wind in the back for a job he needs to do. The second proposal is a proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS. With regard to this point, I would like to remind you that, on the basis of Articles 22, paragraphs 1 and 2. The law on the National Bank of Serbia provides that the Board of Governors of the NBS comprises five members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the competent Committee on Finance and members of the Council are elected for a term of five years with the right to re-election. So there's an unlimited number of times to suggest a member of the governor's council. At the sixth session of the Second Regular Session in 2015, held on 20 November 2015, the National Assembly decided to elect a member of the National Bank Governor's Council with whom Dr Miladin Kovacevic was elected as a member of the Council for a period of five years. Since the second term of office of the Board of Governors expired on 20 November 2020, in accordance with Article 26(2), The National Bank Act is prescribed that a new official be elected no later than the end of the mandate of the previous one, ending the mandate and at the earliest 120 days before the end of the term of office. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds indeed sought to respect these deadlines, so that at the second session of the Committee, which was held on 28 October this year, a procedure for selecting a new member of the Board of Governors. The procedure here is a little different than the election of a member of the Fiscal Council. Here, within the time limit prescribed by the Committee, we have given 15 days here, they need parliamentary groups to submit their proposals to the candidates. The proposal for a candidate for a member of the Council was submitted within the deadline by the Parliamentary Group ‘Alexandar Vukic – For our children’, who has proposed a former member of Dr Miladin Kovacevic as a member of the Council as a candidate. We were obliged to comply with Article 203. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are holding talks with the candidate. We had the opportunity to open up many topics that we were interested in, not only regarding engagement relating to the Board of Governors, but also to many topics that really depended on the National Bank of Serbia and the 7th session, we made that decision. Mr. Miladin Kovacevic was born in 1952, graduated in 1976, mastered in 1978 and doctored in 1984 in the field of mathematical science, so that he had acquired a scientific title for his field in 1987 – a scientific associate at the Faculty of Economics. He was practically impressed in his field, which was related both to statistics and scientific works in this area, especially as he has been a member of the International Statistical Institute since 1988. Since 1992, he has become a senior professional associate and has received a call from a senior research associate at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. What is important, in 1995 he was chosen to call an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Economics from the course – The Theory of Samples and the planning of experiments. What is important to say is that since 1994 he has been actively involved in the establishment of expert magazines dealing with economic research and macroeconomic forecasts and analyses, so that even in this area, as you can see, his professional career shows that he has a lot of experience. In 2003 he was appointed Deputy Director of the Federal Bureau of Statistics and since 2015 as Director. In the National Bank of Serbia, as a member of the Board of Governors, it has been since May 2004. After the end of the term of office, he moved to deal exclusively with statistics, but was re-elected as a member of the Board of Governors in 2013 and 2015. It should be said that, as a regular member of Serbia's scientific society, it has been an economist since 2007, and that projects related to the post-crisis model of economic growth and development in Serbia in 2011 to 2020 are practically in co-operation with international organisations, i.e. USAID. For the past four years, he has devoted himself to the primary development of the decision-supporting system, which covers all aspects related to macroeconomic, planning and statistical elements introduced to analyse documents and reporting, especially when it comes to the National Bank of Serbia. That's why we think he's really done a lot so far, because he's president of the National Bank of Serbia's Audit Committee. International reporting by certain international relevant institutions shows that they trust when they co-operate with someone like Mr. Miladin Kovacevic. That is why we believe that, given that there were no other candidates from other parliamentary groups, we unanimously supported these proposals and I think that this proposal should be supported in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1729	Thank you. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1730	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, first of all, since I am speaking twice today, this is the dynamics that the president of the Assembly spoke of, I could have assumed somewhere that the work dynamics would be quite like that, because I have known Ivica Dacic for a long time. As soon as he became president of the assembly, we knew we'd be doing a lot of work. So it's not me, I don't want to get bored. In front of us in the third search on the agenda is a choice for members of three very important state bodies. The first is a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Board, the second is a member of the Fiscal Council, and the third is the two missing members of the REM Council. I would like to point out this when it comes to the importance of selecting all candidates, because this act allows for the completion of organs that have very significant legal powers. With regard to the Council of the Governors of the National Bank of Serbia, we must commend the work of this authority, headed by the Governor of the National Bank of Dr. Jorvanko Tabakovic, because thanks to their high expertise and real macroeconomic analyses they have provided and provided primarily a stable course of dinars, responsible management of the country's foreign reserves and all other financial elements in their jurisdiction, which have affected macroeconomic stability. The Board of Governors as a team of responsible and professional people in the area of banking and economics has shown in this mandate how important it is for the overall development of the country precisely the team work of the leading authorities of the National Bank of Serbia, which we, who look outside as our national bank, recognize right through the first stability of the coin and stability in the banking market, despite all the external factors that we could not influence in this year, the pandemic Kovida – 19. Today we should choose one member of the Board of Governors, which is the esteemed Dr. Miladin Kovacevic, who has been a member of this body so far. The fact is that it will be re-elected and that only confirms its expertise and contribution made during the previous five years of this duty. The second choice refers to an independent state body, it is the Fiscal Council. The task of the Fiscal Council is to assess the credibility of fiscal policy, to contribute to improving the culture of fiscal responsibility in the Republic of Serbia through an independent analysis of fiscal policy and professional attitudes. It is also tasked to review macroeconomic fiscal assumptions used to produce government fiscal documents, give an independent and credible economic policy assessment, assess fiscal risks and likely that the government will meet fiscal goals in the future. Furthermore, the assessment of the extent the government has respected the fiscal rules it has established in the past. It also assesses plans or proposals for the most important fiscal documents, such as the fiscal strategy and the draft republican budget. On the work of the Fiscal Council chosen by the National Assembly and which gave the report to the National Assembly, we spoke fundamentally when considering the report of this independent state body, and then we also announced the views of the SPS parliamentary group. We may not be thrilled with this work until the end, but not to repeat ourselves, there was really a thorough discussion about the Fiscal Council report. As the Fiscal Council has three members, one of whom is elected on a proposal from the Governor of the National Bank, the other on a proposal from the President of the Republic and the third on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, it is necessary to always be in full composition, in order to perform the role entrusted to it by law. Today we choose a candidate at the proposal of the governor of the National Bank. We will support the proposal, with the hope that this independent state body will exercise its legal powers in favour of our state fiscal policy, but also of state interest, above all. The third proposal by which the National Assembly holds its electoral function refers to the Council of REM – the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media and with the Media Strategy for the period 2020-2025, adopted at the beginning of this year, plays an important role in implementing media laws, in particular the Law on Public Information, but also in achieving public interest in the information sector. In this respect, the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media, whose role is constantly under the public's bat, plays an independent regulatory body in implementing a policy in the field of media service provision, to address the quality and diversity of electronic media services, and to contribute to the preservation and development of freedom of opinion. The priority is to protect the public in the field of electronic media, but also to protect users of electronic media services, which are citizens and citizens of Serbia. As a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I have had the privilege and privilege of talking to the proposed candidates, and I must admit, I will repeat what I said and on the Committee on Culture and Information that four quality candidates would not be wrong to make any decision. Our expectations are always high when it comes to the Regulatory Telecom for the Electronic Media, somehow as a consequence of the fact that they are in the past, so it seems to me that for a year and a half they were the main subject. I'll allow myself the luxury of saying that they were overrated in a work where they were expected to do something that wasn't their jurisdiction. They were also the subject of negotiations at one point, but my distinguished colleague, Djordje Milicevic, who was in the negotiations himself, will talk about it. I'm not getting into that part. What I certainly want to believe, firstly, is that when we choose two missing members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, it will be in its full composition and I don't expect it to have any easier work, but somewhere else with the Committee, there is an agreement that we will help as the Serbian Assembly and the MPs, firstly, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media in the sense in which it may be necessary to correct the law itself and in a way to consider these powers as well. The SPS MPs will certainly vote for two of the four proposed candidates, thereby contributing, I say again, first and foremost, to the constitution of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, and then to help all the work ahead of them. We are also at their disposal in the sense that a law that governs both their authority and their obligations may need to be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1731	Thank you. Is there anyone else on behalf of the MPs' group? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1732	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these three points concerning the electoral responsibilities of the National Assembly are very important, one part in the financial sector, another part in the media. I couldn't even say that something is more significant or that something is a little less significant. Both areas of our social life are equally important that we are discussing today. First, I'd like to say something about the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. As MPs, we all know what the powers of the National Bank, what its role is in accordance with the law, but ordinary citizens of the highest interest are the curative differences that the National Bank has in their understanding of the work of the National Bank are most important. I'll talk about it later. I must say that in the first place, the National Bank is one regulator on the financial market, i.e. its sublaws and powers, which it has in accordance with the law, regulates the work of financial institutions or banks. I can say that in the last few years, i.e. since 2012, more precisely in August 2012, the National Bank has one continuity in the control of banks, their business and thus has a major contribution in the first place in the development of the economy, secondly to the growth of the standard of living of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The National Bank Act, under which Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic was elected governor, has submitted amendments and additions to the National Assembly of the SNS Parliamentary Group. I can say that the former regime then attacked both SNS and Alexander Vukic and Yorvanka Tabakovic, that we passed the law to replace the governor then, to print money, to bring the country into wars, to raise hyperinflation, like in the 1990s. To their great disappointment, and fortunately for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, none of these scenarios occurred in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What do we have as a result? Just remember the interest that was until August 2012. Interests with foreign exchange clauses and annual growth of 16% or 18%, interest rates with dinar loans ranging from 24% to 28% at year level or so on. The most popular and easy to get, so the most used, by me and the most expensive, are, so-called. short-term loans with an interest rate of 36 and even 40%. That was the situation on the financial market made by the former regime. I guess that's why they attacked Jorgenka Tabakovic and the new law so much so that the banks they seem to have liked more and more than the citizens of Serbia, and it seems to me that this love also has a financial moment to continue with a single non-market policy with extra profits damage the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To make evil even bigger when you have such high interest at one point you have so much income that you can no longer use the new loans you have made to place among citizens and in the economy, then there is one, I can say quite illegal work, which is the illegal export of foreign funds from the territory of the Republic of Serbia contrary to the Foreign Exchange Act. That's why we had so many curative differences between 2008 and 2012. That money that was spent in one artificial way to maintain the same supply of money on the market, because if there is something more, then it reduces the value, i.e. There's less interest, if there's less interest than there is interest. The banks, thanks to the failure of the National Bank, were foreign exchanges and thus maintained a low supply of capital, so at high prices on the market of the Republic of Serbia. As a consequence, the second was the loss of the national currency value. At that time, the National Bank held an extremely high reference rate, which even went up to 18%. That doesn't mean anything to the citizens, it's a base rate based on which banks are in debt on the interbank market or at the National Bank and can never be the same, not less than citizens raise credits, never less than the state is in debt. When the citizens ran out of money, and they ran out of money because of the high interest they had at the business banks, they ran out of money because of the exchange rate, because their loans were with the foreign exchange clause. When their purchasing power falls, the next hit is the economy sector. When the economy starts to raise loans at the same high interest rates to maintain its daily liquidity rather than for investment, it starts to suffer the state because there is no more anyone to pay taxes and the full budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we had as much public debt in 2012, all because the regime at the time, now formerly, I guess that's why the former, didn't do his job, and I don't believe that they love the banks so much by themselves, but there was a certain financial moment. When we managed to stabilise the financial market situation, interest rates began to decrease at banks. When no one could go beyond the Foreign Exchange Act to export money from the Republic of Serbia, there was everything and everything, believe me, even from the banks that the founders of banks here in Serbia borrowed money from their banks, the daughters of money at extremely high interest, and it had to be fought by the National Bank, when more money could not be the opposite of the Foreign Exchange Act finally stabilised as a currency. Then comes another story about how a dollar shouldn't be stable. Maybe they're right, but it takes a dinar course to be predictable, but they've been looking for, and a part of the scientific community, I guess because of the regret that the former regime was incapacitated, that the dinar course should fall again, because apparently we can't export and reduce the competitiveness of our economy if the dinar course is predictable. We've proven in the meantime that it can't affect export significantly, because you know what, when you want to bring down the national currency, it's not just exports that might have advantages. I claim not to, because all those inputs depend on the exchange rate, so again through, even though the price of your product has dropped on the foreign market remains the same in the euro, you have not increased competitiveness. I guess these were the last attempts by the former regime to influence the financial market. Let me just point out that from 2008 to 2012, the former regime sold about five and a half billion euros in foreign exchange reserves to stabilise the course, and the rate from 78 dinars jumped to 119,80. So, they were so incompetent and so many thieves were that they sold five and a half billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, didn't keep the rate of the dinar, didn't keep the Serbian economy and didn't keep the social status of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their standard of living, but that's why their standard of living went up very well, and at some other time, maybe when we discuss the members of the REM Council. Since Mr Kovacevic is re-elected as a member of the National Bank Council, because he contributed to such results as the National Bank had, I think he should be supported in the voting day, and the SNS parliamentary group certainly does. When it comes to the Fiscal Council, my favorite topic, I think the National Bank has proposed an excellent candidate - Mr. Bojan Dimitrijevic, I know him for a long time, I know how capable he is, I know how professional he is, many times we disagreed on certain political views, but that's normal, people don't have to agree at all, sometimes we weren't on the same sides, he was in power, I was in opposition, but I think his experience that gives us the right to believe that he would be a good member of the Fiscal Council. But it wasn't me in his skin. With the current president of the Fiscal Council, I don't know how he's gonna handle it, really. I really don't know, because all the things the Fiscal Council has done over the past few years have been denied by events. You know, I've been attacked for what I said, but when someone five times, and it's five times in a row, to misjudge the evaluation and the events, and to deny everything in that assessment, it's time to imagine what they're doing, how professional they should be, whether they should be where they are, whether they should resign, whether they should still speak on behalf of Dragan Gilas, I mean the President of the Fiscal Council, whether they should pay Milojko, Arsic, for advisory services, to write such nonsense as an assessment and to refer it to the National Assembly. Is everything that the President of the Fiscal Council has done in his earlier history good? It needs to be thrown away and gone because of everything he's doing today, so let's ask ourselves the President of the Fiscal Council himself. I can only tell Mr Dimitrijevic not to step away from the profession, from his scientific knowledge, and if he is reputed, so let him take the view that we MPs know and discuss it. Of course, we're getting to the famous REM. Many times, also mentioned, seems more public to me. Finally, we will have the full composition of REM and I hope that REM will finally bring the situation to the media scene in Serbia by law. I think it's, like, one regulatory body, their primary role. Not in the sense that they determine the editorial policy of the media, but that finally the Republic of Serbia has a media scene that corresponds to its legislation, and its legislation corresponds to all EU directives. So that there may be no more talk of a dictatorship or whatever, but, you know what, let it be domestic, let it be domestic media houses, let it be media houses that pay taxes in the Republic of Serbia. You know, if the N1 is registered in Luxembourg, so it's re-emitting, as they say, and the program is made on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, via cable operator, and where the owner of the N1 and cable operator is exactly the same, and anyone working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia must pay income tax or profit tax, as you will, which is 15%, and Solak and Gilas are doing it in Luxembourg, paying 5%, and they are doing their whole activity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So I think it's going to be first, I guess it should be REM's job first. Let them be registered in Serbia, finally, and let them write and say whatever they want, whatever they want, whatever they want. I don't think any of us politicians, as much as insult us, hurt us, not counting family members, us personally, should sue them, but you know what, we're not all the politicians they're attacking. Just to remind you how Gilas and Solak attacked Laza Ristovski. He's an actor, he's got his own political attitude, and he used to be the same as theirs. At that time they did not attack him, but he did good for them, so man saw the difference between them and us and said: "People, I have sinned; I will support Alexander Vukic and the SNS." Who can he sue when they attack him? If he sues them through courts in Luxembourg, he will say – I know, but you may be right, but the law is not broken in our territory, but in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we are not territorially responsible for such a thing. Just remember what they wrote and talked about Nenad Jedić. The man is also an actor, an artist, and he didn't even express his political position. He attended a state ceremony. When you attend a state ceremony, that doesn't mean you support someone's authority or government, I assume you support your country. Solak and Gilas attacked him for supporting his country, his people, his fellow citizens. It is now being rerun against Dragan Stojkovic Pixie, no actor, no politician, former football player. In Serbia, the Grandmaster. The man who is to gather, who plays a special role in the sports world, should represent national unity, is no longer a star or a Partizan, nor anyone else, he is now Serbian. He was attacked because an investor from Japan, from a country where he had a significant career and there was a football star, a sports star, attended the ceremony of laying a cornerstone. Well, you see how sick that is. What kind of sick people are they? Is their love for money stronger than anything? I have to ask, are they normal? Well, when you attack someone else's family, other people's children, I ask how much do you love yours? Just remember what they were doing with President Alexander Vukic's family. Well, is it possible that people prefer money than their family? It seems to me that everything is possible with Dragan Gilas and Solak.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1733	Thank you. Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1734	Thank you, Mr. President. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, therefore, defends the principle of constructive access to all sessions for which we are preparing very thoroughly and committed and we are actually defending the principle that everyone should do their job. In this presentation, as authorised, I will talk about the election of members of the Board of Regulators, and my colleague, Mijatovic, will discuss the election of the Board of Governors and members of the Fiscal Council. So, today on the agenda, we have two new members of the REM council to choose. Why do I say it's important that everyone does their job? Because the Serbian Parliament has done its job in this process. So, according to the law, the procedure and proposals of REM candidates are respected, the candidates meet all the legal requirements and it is at this stage a job done for us. We remain to support the independence and work of REM, when the Council starts after the election of these two new members, starts to work in its full capacity, because it is also one of our roles and obligation to support the independence and work of REM as parliament. I will use, as an authorised say, to remind myself that, at the request of REM in 2017, the Council of Europe ordered a survey on the independence and work of the regulatory body. It is a pity that there is no more information on this on the REM site itself, because it is interesting that REM's study and analysis accurately determine both good and weak points in their work and make several recommendations on improving work and strengthening REM's capacity. It is therefore stated in this survey that the legal solution relating to nominations and the appointment of REM Council members is in line with best practice. Practice has shown, however, that the deadlines have not always been respected, but this time we have done it as the law does, all in full compliance with the deadlines attributed. In the analysis, which, to repeat, was commissioned by the Council of Europe, which was drafted by a team of independent media experts from abroad, it is said, in addition to other countries, that Serbia has a very modern Media Law. There are also certain risks that affect REM's work. Some of them concerned the optimal support of parliament, especially with regard to respect for deadlines in the approval of the Statute and the fiscal plan, which we also did this year in accordance with the prescribed deadlines, so in time, and thus in fact showed determination and willingness to strengthen the capacity and independence of REM. All that was up to us, as Parliament, we conducted in time and by selecting these two REM members will, as I said, work at full capacity. The electronic media regulatory body has a large number of responsibilities. However, a public atmosphere has been created in which REM is expected and what it has no authority to do. It is up to REM to explain and remove any misunderstandings and misunderstandings in public. It seems that since the establishment of REM communication with the public is a weak point. We have repeated this here several times, although all the most important acts, work reports and records from the Council's session are public and available on the REM website, there is a fundamental commitment to the interaction of this body with all those interested in getting closer and more informed about the work of that body. Therefore, REM would have to expand the communication channels and arrange the existing to make its activities clear to the average citizen and to make it easy for the average Internet user to look for information on REM's work. In other words, some matter of amending the law, such as the powers to punish those who violate media laws, and something is also in the sphere of good will of the regulatory body. What is also given special attention in the analysis is the observation that REM does not have the authority to impose financial sanctions that are certainly more effective than reproof and warning. On the other hand, REM is encouraged to use existing mechanisms to a greater extent. There is what could be a challenge for us and a job in some subsequent period, possibly by amending and supplementing the laws, and allowing REM to fine those media service providers who violate laws or to regulate sublaws the way in which REM can use powers that have and issue gradual sanctions that would certainly prevent and strengthen the effect of deterring law violations. REM, and here I end up, is not my goal, but should be positioned as an independent guardian of media pluralism on the electronic media market, and here I agree with my colleague Arsic that we can talk about REM at another session when it comes to the topic. This time, however, we are only talking about candidates for REM members who, as far as we are concerned as the National Assembly, meet all legal requirements to perform that function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1735	Thank you. Since no one on behalf of the parliamentary groups is answering anymore, we are going to the list of MPs. The word is Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1736	Thank you, Mr. President. I will continue where the National MP Mikhailovic has stopped. Yes, as a Social Democratic Party, we support the work of independent bodies, we support their freedom in work and expression of opinion, but every freedom has its limits. Those restrictions mean responsibility for what's said, responsibility for what's being defended, and that's exactly what I want to say. In fact, the laws of the Serbian state make very clear the rules of conduct of these independent state bodies and regulatory bodies. The bottom line of the story is that they have to follow the law, they can't be above the law, and they have to lay down their accounts to the National Assembly. This is very important for a simple reason because they have an independence in work, they have independence and that fact itself says that they have their own supervisory, advisory role, the control role can express in the way it suits them, but to that end to respect all legal norms and legal regulations. You know, freedom is not won, freedom is won, but once freedom is won, it must be preserved. That's exactly what I expect from these organs that are involved, because that's why we have a very detailed and exhaustive discussion about the staff issues as well. We had her on committees, the Finance Committee and the Information Committee. So we've examined everything that the candidates in their biographies have stated, and I can say that we've got really good candidates. I'll start with the National Bank Council first. It was just said that the National Bank had achieved very good results. Let me tell you right now what they're looking at. We have secure monetary stability, stability of public finances, we have low and stable inflation and it is very important to stress that it is at the bottom half of that range, the target range that the National Bank has set. Furthermore, currency on the foreign exchange market has a constant value. The value of the dinar at the beginning of this year and at the end of this year is practically the same. That's not an accident. It didn't come from itself, it's the result of a teamwork that's in the National Bank. We have a stable state reserve. They are 12.8 billion euros and mean the coverage of our imports for six months, well above the standards set, where there is a demand for import coverage to be three months and, of course, monetary mass coverage, that factor M1 is 134%. That's good, which means the governor, the vice governors, the executive board and the council are doing their job the way they're supposed to. You see, the National Bank is independent, it can't be affected by the government, it's the only one responsible for its work to the National Assembly and it reports regularly. But in the National Bank Act, there is a clause that the National Bank is working with the Government and that is the fact that the National Bank is working with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that we have very good results in this area. That is why it is very important and very important for us that the staff in the National Bank Council are indeed professional, competent and that they have presented results for themselves, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party fully support that Dr Miladin Kovacevic, because of his results, is re-elected as a member of the National Bank Council because of his work. He deserved it with his work, with his knowledge, with his expertise, and that's what I really need to stress out. But when we say the Fiscal Council, right away, we often have different contradictory opinions, attitudes, and views on the work of the Fiscal Council. I have to say, the Fiscal Council is an independent state body. He is responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we regularly receive their reports. I closely follow their reports, read regularly, and I must tell you that sometimes I don't agree with their opinions, but I respect their opinions, and I will always fight for them to express their opinion. On the Finance Committee, I often have discussions about the views of the Fiscal Council, and it concerns the standard of citizens, the level of wages, the level of pensions. You know, the fiscal council often uses conservative methods. He's just because it's about famous scientists, people from the profession, they often have this conservative approach that means we're going to go to safety, we're going to go to what we have in our predictions that will mean that citizens at one given moment might be harder to live, but we're going to go out in the long run, as we say, on a mature branch. But it's not the life of science. Life's more complex, you need to react faster. It is precisely the size of all of us who are in the ruling majority, primarily the SNS, and also the coalition partners, that at a very difficult moment, when the state of Serbia was in a difficult financial situation, we went into fiscal consolidation. It was a sign that certain results should be achieved. Politicians must act quickly. If they act on time, they risk it. At that risk, they can make a mistake. If politicians make a mistake in adopting some very important, very significant economic measures, they are punished in the elections. Serbian citizens will not vote for them. That's where I see the results that have been achieved, and that sometimes I disagree with the opinion of the Fiscal Council, it's my right as a MP, and the right of every citizen, every scientist to say what he thinks, and time shows who's right, who's wrong. That's why as a representative of the SDPS, I can say that I have advocated and that I will always stand up for higher wages, for higher pensions, for paying back the debts of this country, for cheaper loans, and that is what has given us the opportunity to handle the difficulties we have in this difficult situation around the Kovid epidemic, and we have the opportunity to come up with certain solutions. We have before us a proposal from candidate Dr. Bojan Dimitrievich. He's been told a lot of things. I won't say it again. What's important is it's about a candidate who's competent, who's scientifically proven and what's most important is that he knows the state well and the state administration. He was also a minister. He worked on projects. He has also worked with Avramovic and will therefore play a really significant role in this Fiscal Council and that the right solution for all this is happening. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDPS will vote for all these solutions confident that they should be created and that these independent bodies and regulatory bodies have plenty of space to work with. The National Assembly will always consider their reports, give its views, and the fact itself says that Serbia is going forward and that the independence and independence of these state bodies exist, it will exist, it is guaranteed by the laws, the Constitution and itself that it says they have full space for work, and we MPs in some of our decisions will accept something and we will not accept something. It's our right. We were elected by the citizens of Serbia, and therefore, if we make mistakes in our estimates, we will suffer consequences in some elections, but I am sure that we are a good judge, that we are going forward and the fact that we are choosing the best people at a given time means that Serbia knows where it is going and what it is going to choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1737	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1738	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is true that we have today's personnel issues and human resources. It is about the election of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, the second election of a member of the Fiscal Council, the third election of two REM council members, in fact four candidates proposed as defined by the law. We should choose two and I am convinced that the National Assembly will choose the best solution in the voting day. I have my own opinion, of course. I'll let him know. I have no problem with that when it comes to one of the candidates. I agree with a colleague who is an authorised representative of the SDPS and we colleagues are thoroughly preparing and preparing for discussion when it comes to each session, but what we do will, of course, leave to the citizens to assess in some of the next parliamentary elections. This is about independent regulatory bodies. Kola Arsic and my colleague, Mijatovic, spoke about the Council of Governors of the NBS. I think the results and indicators best speak in favour of the finding that this council has worked and how much support the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deserves. When it comes to the Fiscal Council, I want a lot of success for a future member of the Fiscal Council, regardless of certain disagreements with the Council's views. I always speak openly of this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because not so often independent bodies have different opinions from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not so often independent bodies have different opinions from us MPs. If that were not the case, there would be a question of the essence of the existence of these independent bodies. So it's no problem to face opinions, it's no problem that we have a democratic debate, a democratic exchange of views here in parliament, although it seems to me, what I said when I also spoke to Mr Petrovic and here in plenary, but also at the session of the Committee on Finance, that his reports and analyses and reports and analyses of the Fiscal Council all the time are being denied and the results are being denied. Just because we disagree doesn't mean we put pressure on the work of independent bodies. On the contrary, we want to strengthen and strengthen the work of independent bodies, but we believe that this open debate, that this debate in the tide, not this because today there is no representative of the Fiscal Council, but the debate we had when we discussed the report of the Fiscal Council, the debate we had when we discussed at the session of the Finance Committee, at a session attended by both the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the NBS and Mr Miladin Kovacevic, representatives of the DRI, can certainly be a contribution and a qualitative step in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We certainly commend it, and we are always ready to participate in such a debate. I repeat, this does not mean that we are putting pressure on the work of independent regulatory bodies. Why am I saying this? For one space of reason, it seems to me that whatever I say here in the tide in public is going to come across some kind of criticism. Then it turns out that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is against independent regulatory bodies. No, we understand what is the role of our MPs as legitimately elected representatives of citizens, to strengthen and strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies, to monitor whether they respect the law. But on the other hand, I don't know if certain independent regulatory bodies, when I'm specifically talking about the Fiscal Council, know what their obligation is and what their responsibility is. Here I agree with Mr. Mijatovic, that we must make certain parallels, i.e. the limits of responsibility. Therefore, the Fiscal Council should assess the budget and that assessment to be submitted to us by the MPs, to come out with certain views, data that agree or disagree with the views of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is where their story ends. Any further findings such as that – the government's policy is bare because the government has been pushing problems, leaving problems aside, specifically from the field of health, are unfounded, are political and I have nothing against it. We had a Protector of citizens who did not favour this Parliament even if he came to the Committee's meetings, who did not deign to answer the questions of the MPs. He used to do politics all the time. We don't have a problem. If someone from the Fiscal Council wants to deal with politics. It's very simple. You come out of comfortable chairs, you make some kind of program, you make an election list, you participate in parliamentary elections, and you see about how much you're worth. That, of course, does not apply to the candidate we're talking about today. I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will also support the proposal of the candidate for the NBS Board of Governors and wish him success in his work, to continue, of course, with the intensity that the Board of Governors has been working so far. Of course, we will also support the proposal for a member of the Fiscal Council, and we believe that this candidate will in many ways influence changing the work of the Fiscal Council, at least in that context, that we do not have a certain degree of politicisation and a certain degree of political qualifications. Although I must admit, here, my colleague Kovacevic, I accidentally looked at him, there he is, at the last session of the Committee, seems to me to be a bit of a tempered rhetoric, and it seems to me that a little bit of a balance has been made, although one qualification has been given at the expense of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the government was not careful when making the budget, which we disagreed with because this government is not irresponsible. This government behaves responsibly, seriously and committed and preserves macroeconomic stability and not borrows, in fact, not into loans, expensive loans to finance salaries and pensions, but salaries and pensions are funded from real sources of income. But let's not talk too much about the Fiscal Council, so, of course, we'll support these two staff proposals. As for the election of two members of the REM Council, I think that today's debate is also an opportunity for us to talk about REM, to discuss everything that has happened in the past time period when it comes to REM, but to talk about everything that is related to REM, and that is the editorial policy of the media, and unfortunately, RTS was in one time period, right before the elections, and today, unfortunately, it is also commercial media. Of course, that's what I forgot to say, we respect when it comes to selecting members, we respect that the Committee and that the Committee members are responsible, seriously and committed to doing their job, that they have respected procedures, and that is commendable. When it comes to REM, I'm going back to REM, what's the role of REM? I think it's important that, despite what we're talking about, we're also talking about this issue, because it can be useful. What's the role of REM? Is it the role of REM to deal with the programming scheme of individual media? Of course not. Is it the role of REM to determine who public service or commercial media, like Pink TV, Happy TV, not to offend others, will be invited to debate information shows? Of course not. Why am I pointing this out? Why am I pointing out the role of REM? Because an already longer period of time goes back to a hack, one hysteria, and one attack on REM. During the inter-party dialogue that awaits us during the following year, I therefore insisted today, or during yesterday, whether today or during yesterday, I don't know when I spoke to you anymore, but I insisted that we discuss the European Commission's report as well as the European Commission's report, among other things, has one part that relates to inter-party dialogue. It is important that we hear what you, colleagues and colleagues think about this inter-party dialogue, because you are the voice of the people, you are representatives of the citizens, not just to hear some European Parliament rapporteurs. Let's finally have an answer. Let us not remain silent, but have a clear attitude. A clear stance that will be, as I said, also support the President of the Republic, but that will also be the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, during the inter-party dialogue, during the talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences, we had just a few topics to ignore this 42 requirement, what we were set up as a condition -- or 42 demands or a boycott of elections, so let's leave it aside at this point, but we had only a few key things. One was REM, the other was RTS and the third was the editorial policy of the media. Correct me if I'm wrong. There are colleagues and colleagues who participated in the talks both at the Faculty of Political Sciences and in the framework of inter-party dialogue. I've had the pleasure of participating in both conversations. We've made it very clear, to leave, I'm not going to talk today about what the ultimate goal was. Of course they wanted to have their own people in REM, to have their own people in RTS, to bring Serbia back to the past, at a time when only their opinion about the media could be heard and of course the ultimate goal is what we heard, I don't know if there's a colleague here, no colleague, probably late, no colleagues from the parliamentary group, I don't know, gone, gone, no colleagues from the parliamentary group who spoke about the transitional government. That was the ultimate goal. Transitional or as they say, the Technical Government, which is actually your way of reaching power without choice and privilege, and for all this time through REM, through Public Service, through the editorial policy of the media edits the media as a whole and creates the psychological awareness of citizens. You missed the moment and the time and the place. That time is a plus-squamperfect of Serbia's political scene. So I think we made it clear to put it during the interparty dialogue, and I want to repeat it today. Media in Serbia, we do not want to deal with editorial media policy and the media in Serbia must be autonomous in decision-making. The interest of ownership is certainly primary. Why am I pointing this out? I've said it many times before, and I've said it in the framework of inter-party dialogue, those who oppose this have defined a strategy on media privatisation. According to this strategy, the media has been privatised. Did you want capitalism? Did you get capitalism? Now the question arises – where does the need to deal with the private sector today, when we are specifically talking about the media? Don't underestimate private media, because commercial media is also monitoring research. And commercial media knows who has 60% or over 60% of citizens' support, who has 11% of citizens' support, and who is unable to reach those famous 3% of citizens' support, although we have lowered your censorship to 3% to have representative public opinion in parliament, to allow you to have your representatives in parliament and to lead politics in parliament, not on the street. You didn't have the courage to participate in such elections either, so you defined yourself as a desperate and losing move of the boycott election, and today you're looking for an excuse. Then you have a good sense, and you say, "We are against boycotts, but that is why we are in favour of talking about electoral conditions." Slowly, we will discuss election conditions when we all fight together against what is today the biggest challenge, which is the crown. On the other hand, don't underestimate the media, because the media knows very well what the news is. If you're not present in the media simply and simply, you're not news. You repeat the same thing, like a matrix, like a tape, like a tape when you go back, so it repeats. You're not news. It's no longer interesting to anyone, no one in Serbia wants to hear it anymore. So don't underestimate the press and don't underestimate the media that way. You won't succeed, and don't, among other things, you know, degrade journalists, instead of showing them respect for what they're doing responsiblely and seriously, and we all know how important time and real information is during this period. They work during this period one responsible and serious job and you instead of having respect for it, you degrade them. You share them on those who are journalists and those who are not journalists. You share them in the likes and the unspeakable. It's hypocritical. That only speaks of your political, moral and human character. So, the constant moaning about media in the media and starting from the the thesis that if we are present in the media the media scene is excellent, and if we are not in some media the media scene is disastrous is extremely hypocritical. Enough with that. As far as RTS is concerned, I've said many times here in parliament. You want to change the RTS editors, change them, what's the problem? I don't know if this ruling coalition has set up any RTS editors. So now watch out for a tragic, tragic situation. I don't know what to call her. So, in a period when Serbia faces the biggest health challenge for opposition representatives, the most important thing is that they hold talks with RTS management. This is most important, because they have something very important to say to the citizens of Serbia, and during the campaign, they say -- we fight in five minutes on RTS. You know what, I'll decide, and so did Mr. Djukanovic, I think, during the interparty dialogue, we'll give you all the time. Go ahead and visit the RTS. The moment you were visiting, your rating was no longer even 2%, it was unrecognizable in the electoral body. The more you visit the citizens, the more they will recognize your senselessness. You don't have a program, you don't have any personnel, you don't have people. So, the more you visit the Public Service. During the inter-party dialogue here in parliament, we organised a public hearing, and that was part of the Agenda that we defined together with the representatives of the European Parliament and there were all those who were interested in participating in it. We took part in it, and part of the opposition took part. One part of the opposition was uninterested to participate, although I think it was an opportunity to tell media representatives with a national frequency of what they had, but they didn't have the courage to do it either. There were representatives of REM, and then we made it very clear that a regulation would be laid down when it comes to public service, that recommendations would be established when it comes to commercial broadcasters, because you cannot limit someone who is a private sector. You can make recommendations, but you can't order anything and it was respected during the election campaign. We have suggested that if we are already talking about equal representation at public service, let them not be political monologues, let them be debates on different thematic content, because then in the best way citizens can see who has what kind of program and who are the people who are guaranteed to implement this programme. You think those who didn't show up for public hearing would come to such debates? No, you wouldn't. They are only ready for one thing, and the inter-party dialogue we had, and I suppose that will be the case in the next period of time, to try to make a farce out of it, to try to protect the public, to present themselves to the victim, and to turn their inferiority into weapons and to try to find among Serbian citizens someone who feels like a victim. That time was long behind us. Citizens are pragmatic. Citizens expect results, and the results are on the side of the ruling coalition. If you wanted on RTS, I told them many times, I told them during the interparty dialogue, you want on RTS, so, here we are in direct transmission of RTS, is that how you chair, so you participate in the elections, win, here we are, we're down to 3%, you're attending parliamentary sessions and you're saying what you think, and no one's stopping you from democratic debate and democratically facing opinions. Just don't tell us the boycott of parliament because someone stopped us. Well, no one prevented you from doing anything, but you didn't have the opportunity to show your strength through such a kind of democratic debate, argumentated debate, and a reasoned confrontation of opinion, because you're politically anemic. As for REM, I think we're forgetting what our essential role is, I'm going to repeat, which is to strengthen and strengthen the work of independent bodies, not to push independent bodies into political mud, political ring, to expect them to, it's not correct, to achieve their own goals. Our job is to support REM in what is most important, which is to work by law, not to interpret the laws as it suits us and to force independent regulatory bodies like REM, to interpret these laws in the same way, in the wrong way. To be clear, REM is neither a political entity nor a part of the election, nor defines who will win and who will lose in the elections. So, what's all this for? It's very interesting, during these inter-party dialogues, constantly some formulas, constantly some figures, when we get to REM, all secretive, we're going to pick three plus one, we're going to choose three plus two. We ask by which procedures we will choose, when we have our laws, which are very precise, clear, we have adopted them in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and they say according to the best European practice and European standards. You know what, we also respect European practice, we also respect European standards, but this is Serbia, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed a law that is very clear and precise and very clearly and precisely defines the procedures by which REM members are elected, and we do so today. It's very interesting, that when I have quite enough time, fellow Members, you have your time, so I will continue, a time that you haven't used as deputy president of the parliamentary group. Take it easy. So it is very interesting that when the inter-party dialogues were completed, representatives of the European Parliament only then dared to visit REM, not before. So, only then did they talk to REM representatives. I have here the findings that were made at the time. He says European parliamentarians visited REM, talking about how there are two parallel countries, how there are two parallel institutions, parallel media. So wait, if there is no freedom of the media in Serbia, then there are parallel media, that's the key issue. I will remind you what else has been said -- concerned about democracy, concerned about media freedom in Serbia. We have made it clear to them during the inter-party dialogue, democracy is being held in the elections and we will have fair and democratic elections in Serbia, because we have respected more than 90% of the agenda agreed during the inter-party dialogue, and on the freedom of the media, gentlemen of the European Parliament, you have, not everyone, but those who call themselves rapporteurs, you have the least right to talk about it. Why, I repeat, did you not speak in 2011 when Verica Baraic drafted the report and expressed great concern about the freedom of the media in Serbia? That's when no one raised that question. I asked this distinguished lady, representative of the European Parliament, Tanja Fajon. She says - I wasn't a reporter at the time. Were you a European Parliamentarian? Is it your obligation to ask that question as a European Parliamentarian? As this Von Kramon came out as a rapporteur, so she heard the opposite opinion, because her opinion is not the opinion of the European Parliament. This is Tanja Fajon, who criticises Serbia's turnout, and she, among other things, interfered in the election in Šapec. That's this Tanya Fajon who was elected to the election where turnout was 26% or 28%. So, it did not win 26% or 28%, but was elected European parliamentarian in elections where turnout was 26% or 28%. The top of the entire farce, when I talk about REM, who deals with media freedom in Serbia? It's the ones who came in front of that same REM, with a request to shut down certain commercial televisions. So that's the highlight of hypocrisy by one part of the opposition. Now, I have one specific question, and I hope that I will get an answer from REM representatives when they attend the session, and the question is: videos with an invitation to boycott the election, because REM, I will remind you, has made one analysis of parliamentary elections and how many electoral lists were present in information shows, and even in the journals of all media, see, impressive data. They do not contribute to the weight we have heard most of the European Commission's report, but we will talk about it when the time comes. But it's very interesting that the spots with the invitation to boycott the election, which during the election campaign are about 400 times broadcast on certain channels. Television paid no opposition party, but a private firm. How is that possible? You know, there is a law in the United Kingdom, because they often refer to the United Kingdom, but there is a law in the United Kingdom that says, and we too advocated it during interparty dialogue, that they cannot participate in the debates of those who did not participate in the elections. That's totally logical. What are you representing? Release those who have a program, release those who have people who are guaranteed to realize that program. If you don't have a program, then don't bother others. She's right, counterpart Natasha, she spoke a little bit, the Council of Europe did order one analysis and the analysis says Serbia has an extremely good media law, and that regulation, nomination of elections, when we talk about REM, has the best practice. That's what I want to finish this exposure with. I repeat, we will support the proposal to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, support the proposal to elect a member of the Fiscal Council and, of course, in the voting day, we will identify ourselves when it comes to the proposed REM members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1739	Thank you, and I would like to inform you that the time has passed for your parliamentary group. Next in front of the promoter is counterpart Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1740	Dear President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members, there is one need to report to inform not only the public but perhaps some MPs who have not had the opportunity to hear about the work of the Fiscal Council in that light when we discussed the budget of the Republic of Serbia, when we extended the composition of the representatives at the Committee session, people who had something to say about next year's budget, but also the results of general policy, economic policy of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period and the starting points on what awaits us in the future. Why am I saying this? Because one of the candidates we are proposing today was also a participant in this presentation, but with the presence of a representative of the Fiscal Council, President of the Fiscal Council, of course ministers, and governor of the National Bank of Serbia. In addition, Mr. Miladin Kovacevic, who as a candidate for a member of the Board of Governors, was in the capacity of the Council for Co-ordination of GDP growth measures of the Republic of Serbia, which was one of the advisory bodies formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 and which, on the initiative of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, was exclusively on the subject. In fact, the system has become one tool that should simply follow our country's economic policy and be one of the strengths between all indicators when it comes to both trends and planning and carrying out work, not only when it comes to growth and development, in general macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Serbia, but also what is the obligation to implement the National Bank of Serbia as a direction, when we are talking about politics at all. In addition, Mr Kovacevic is also the president of the National Bank of Serbia's review committee. Why do I say this is important? Because the authorities are precisely defined what the governor is doing, and you know that the constitutional category is Article 95, where he says the National Assembly elects the governor of the National Bank of Serbia because the governor of the National Bank is in charge of the work and of those institutions, but that the National Bank of Serbia is passing a law on the NBS, where it says in law that there is a Board of Governors, who has five members. What's the governor's council actually doing? He's bringing in very important acts. In addition to the statutes of the National Bank, it makes a decision on the dinar course regime, on the foreign reserve management strategy, on membership in international organisations, on an annual report, but also on a very important part relating to the National Bank of Serbia's development strategy, or any part relating to the audit itself, i.e. underlining the lines of what you've been doing, when it comes to monetary policy and exchange rate policy in general, in fact gives the Board of Governors. So our candidate, i.e. the candidate we are now discussing in the matter of the Board of Governors, had the opportunity to face positions somewhere with the representatives of the Fiscal Council, at that session of the Committee, it was Professor Dr. Pavle Petrovic, who gave his view of what GDP growth looks like and how much doubt it is when it comes to projected growth for the next year – 6%, and why he simply doesn't see at all why we have such optimism when it comes to the projected budget for next year. But on the other hand, he said, in his budget assessment for 2021, the Fiscal Council, that public finances are safe, that we have nothing to worry about, that they are not at risk, that income and expenditure are well-designed, by expressing a political assessment when it comes to "Er Serbia". Why do I say political assessment? Because the campaign that started with the spending of funds and support of the state of "Er Serbia" is too large is obviously done in a completely unprofessional way. Why can I say this? Because the campaign on the support of the state of "Er Serbia" was given primarily in Gilas' media as something that is personal support, which doesn't matter at all, and I don't think the Fiscal Council had any knowledge of how important the state's support to this company was, because we as someone in negotiations with the EU on state aid still committed in 2014, when he was working to preserve our only airline and company that he had to come together with the EU to agree with the European Commission that all claims, all accounts made by the Republic of Serbia's budget, must be submitted to the European Commission. So, from every paid account, from every purchased new plane to the costs it bears, it has to endure in one transparent way. Otherwise, that airline couldn't operate. We'd like to forbid you. Secondly, the entire fleet would land and you wouldn't be able to work at all on the growth of the capacity of such an airline. Let me remind you that in 2014, "Er Serbia" had seven aircraft, of which only three were in driving condition. Let me remind you of the debts taken by the state, that we have taken over the debts found at that time of more than 280m euros in concrete debts and a negative capital of 305m euros. So today when we talk about a company that owes 106m euros, it means all five times less than it was in 2014. This means that there was a positive business of the airline, which had to pay back the debts gradually. I will remind you, at the time of the largest pandemic, that in March of the month, she had over 37 international flights, where, besides transporting the medical equipment that we needed for our healthcare workers, our hospitals, as a preparation for this second and third wave, she also saved our people who remained in international capitals, because they had no way at all to come back to Serbia, because this "lockdown" that occurred at that time in March was valid for all EU members, for all countries, both in the East and the West. There was no possibility that our children who were on the exchange of students and exchanges of high school students would return, because all those houses that invited them to those exchanges were canceled overnight. I want to tell you that "Er Serbia" was not there, our life couldn't have worked in one normal way as it did at the time when the world stopped because of this pandemic. So what we had the opportunity to hear as one budget assessment for 2021, by the Fiscal Council, was, in fact, one report and criticism in terms of numbers and letters that were not at that point, really, seeing what real life was in Serbia. On the other hand, for the first time now, we have had opportunities from Professor Kovacevic to hear in front of the Council for the Co-ordination of GDP growth measures, in fact, that these figures exist somewhere different methodologies from which aspects are seen. So I think it's good to always hear the expert debate, because this expert debate actually lets us know that sometimes even these expert discussions depend on the methodology they use sometimes make mistakes in their conclusions. That's what I'm reporting for now, because I hear from my fellow SPS fellow critics when it comes to the Fiscal Council, but I'll tell you, so the Fiscal Council is defined by the Budget Law and represents a professional advisory body. Such an expert advisory body is of great importance to us, especially as the way it is elected, which is proposed by the president of the Republic of Serbia to the President of the Fiscal Council, the finance minister and the governor of the National Bank are proposing another member. We never had the opportunity to reject such suggestions. Given that Aleksandar Vucic really showed one political breadth, when it comes to proposing the President of the Fiscal Council, we had the opportunity to see that he had twice had the chance to propose, or once he had the chance to propose a new President of the Fiscal Council and he proposed Mr. Pavel Petrovic, although he was always critical somewhere and when it comes to creating a budget by ministers who were the SNS. Whenever you ask the president why he suggests Mr. Pavel Petrovic, he says - it is always a pleasure for me to propose to the professor because it has now been shown, after 2012, that all the criticisms that are referred to and to the work of different ministers, who have proposed budgets, do not bother us. They don't mind when they represent a certain so-called. presentations of different methodologies, when it comes to GDP projections and budget projections, even when they may want to make political and both such reports. We don't mind that, but it bothers us that he will never repeat one fact, that by 2012, we haven't had a chance to hear such criticism in public. I'll tell you when they criticized the growth of public debt, which cannot be greater than 45%, you couldn't hear in public until 2012, because their press conferences were never transferred to RTS because nowhere in the public or in the media held by Gilas had been published. Now it's an attempt to take such pieces out of the report provided by the Fiscal Council to make certain political campaigns. We just don't react the way they might want to. We let simply that indeed anyone can, from his professional point of view, give his own opinions. In these opinions we have adequate, ready answers both as MPs and as representatives, you see, the ministries of different and we want these different opinions to be heard in public and to see whose side the truth is. It is important to us that the truth is on our side, because today, the results, supporting Serbia's citizens, not only in the elections, but also in the support we see, when it comes to economic policy, in terms of supporting citizens in difficult times, are always on the side of those who have been on the side of the truth. Apparently, each finance minister has always been on the side of the truth since 2014 when he was Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, and even now that the president, when Ana Brnabic is headed by the government, is the government of continuity. So, the bottom line of this debate is that we are dealing with the interests of Serbian citizens, when it comes to economic policy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and when it comes to the monetary policy of the National Bank of Serbia, when we are here in parliament discussing all these issues. Many MPs want to show in public as people who have nothing to do with these topics, but apparently according to the results we show in our reports and even those European parliamentarians are discussing, there are parliamentarians who are following these reports and who are following what the relevant committees are doing and when you get a report from the European Commission on Serbia's progress, then when the economic reform comes, so when the Action Plan on adequate management of public finances comes, then it says some point of action plan 19, where external supervision of the public finances of the Finance Committee is, then it is assessed very positively, they have no objections, unlike many others where they have observations. We do not want to hear more about this parliament having its results when it comes to Serbia's progress towards European integration, and when these European parliamentarians come, we do not just want to talk about the state of law, but one of the most important human rights, and that economic right, that we live better than we did by 2012, and we will always talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1741	Thank you. The word is Mr. Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1742	Ladies and gentlemen, the economy is an exact science. The economy is a science based on results. The results of the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of finance are clear, and they are clear because you respect the principles and rules. The economy consists of principles and rules, and if you don't respect them, you can't have a result, so tells you a thousand years of practice in the area of the economy. This practice actually fits into 500 years of economic theory. In those 500 years, it's costing everything, standing different economic opinions, different economic schools, housing processes that have been going on in different countries, and we mortals at this point think it all started from us in the economy. Everything we're experiencing today in the economy has already happened. We are part of the global economic process. We as a small nation cannot disobey economic rules. Key economic law, the constitution of fiscal policy, is the Law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia. Article 1 defines the role of the Fiscal Council and says that the Fiscal Council should serve, give opinions independent of fiscal policies based on fiscal rules and thus enable the public and responsibility of those who adopt fiscal rules. In fact, he decides on the fiscal strategies and the budget of the Republic of Serbia in a way that gives an advisory opinion and is part of the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia and together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank and the Serbian Assembly is responsible and responsible for the results Serbia has in economic policy. We fully agree with the SNS with the Fiscal Council when we talk about budgetary principles and budgetary rules. We agree 100% when we talk about the past and fiscal consolidation and its results. Of course we disagreed in 2015, 2016 on operational parts, individual parts. We agree 100% on economic freedom, the free market, where Serbia wants to go. We agree 100% that Serbia is currently an economic leader in the Western Balkans. We agree 90% on the operational measures taken by the Serbian Parliament, the government of Serbia and the National Bank, and that is perfectly normal. We are a nation that has not respected principles and rules in the economy for too long. When you don't respect them, then you can't have economic results. The fact that we thought we could make the rules, as we understand it, has proved in Serbia's negative history, as one unfortunate economic nation, that it has not produced economic results. We differ from the Fiscal Council. I have this freedom to say that we're fundamentally different because we're different years, we understand the economy differently, we learn from different books. Basically, we're theoretically different from certain members of the Fiscal Council. It's my pleasure. When the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, passed some law that is liberal and leans on Milton Friedman, then the Fiscal Council says, "yeah, and we would, for Cans, and when we under pressure change that is happening in the global order, where protectionism is the key thing in these conditions, go back to the Kansas monetary policy and macroeconomic policy, giving subsidies, then the fiscal advice that says -- no, we are for the free market, neglecting the time and conditions in which we live and the citizens of Serbia. When we talk about the key difference between me, for example, personally and Mr. Pavel Petrovic, it is a multiplier that says that when we give financial resources from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the funds we give to citizens in terms of giving money in respect of the increase in wages, pensions and so-called "helikoptera money", in fact differs from public finances. I think it's the same thing. Milton Friedman says it's the same thing when you give and invest in public spending and you invest in personal spending. As a representative of the citizens, I am always in favour of the citizens of Serbia getting money, and if it is said through a helicopter of money, which is a completely wrong expression. The money helicopter established Milton Friedman in the 1950s as a criticism of the banking system and of the FED's primary mission. But, well and as defined, a helicopter of money for the citizens of Serbia, for me as a national MP, to increase wages made by the government of the Republic of Serbia, pensions and giving Serbian citizens is more significant than Mr. Pavlov Petrovic's theoretical position. The fiscal council in its analysis does not say that this opinion is primary and crucial, unquestionable, so we are here in the Assembly that whenever we disagree with Pavl Petrovic, with the members of the Fiscal Council, we say what we think, as well as those who present their opinion and the Fiscal Council, do not forget, it is part of the macroeconomic system of the Republic of Serbia which is crucial, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of Serbia, and, of course, without Alexander Vukic, it would not be for the functioning and the results that we have in the area of the economy. When we in the Assembly are in principle talking about macroeconomic parameters, we usually talk about the fiscal measures proposed by the government. Somehow we forget the monetary measures, we don't talk about them. I like to say it's a great happiness for Serbia. The monetary policy in the Republic of Serbia has become terribly boring, undetectable, we can't see it, which is not the case in Serbia's history. When you look at Serbian monetary policy, then you realize that since the early 19th century, you don't actually have monetary stability. In 2012, thanks to Jorgvanka Tabakovic and her team, the state of Serbia, I repeat, runs a boring monetary policy. You have all the parameters that say that, finally after two centuries, a century and a half of wandering into monetary policy, we stopped at the anchors of the EU, that our inflation rate is 2.2%, that it's much less than we planned, 3% and basically you have price stability, currency stability, to forget those periods of the 1990s and the twenty-thousands when we woke up every morning and wondered what something was worth today. The National Bank uses two key mechanisms, a reference rate that is the lowest in Serbia's history and repo market operations. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that today we're choosing two members who will be an integral part of the Fiscal Council and the National Bank Governor's Council, but if we're not talking about institutions and their functioning, then we don't really need to talk about people. If you enter institutions that are key, stable and operate in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, then the personnel solutions are peripheral. Teams leading macroeconomic policy in the state of Serbia are key. They are fortunate to join teams that have made a significant shift and step in the budgetary functioning of the Serbian state from 2015 to 2020, in fact changing the economic order. That is why it is my pleasure to vote in favour of such proposals, while at the same time their honor and obligation to join teams that have changed Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1743	Thank you. Just to let you know there's no transmissions at the moment because of the World Cup wrestling transfer, I mean, when it comes to RTS. Let's move on. National MP Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1744	Thank you, Mr. President. To begin with, I'd like to quote the famous German philosopher Hegel who said that the history of the world is the advancement of freedom consciousness. We have heard a lot today when it comes to REM, when it comes to freedom of the media, when it comes to the government, that is, politics, politicians towards the media and the media towards politicians, or the government or the opposition. Many truly, as a young democracy, we still have to learn. A lot of things are ahead of us, a lot of big steps we have to take, but we have to learn first thing, that freedom doesn't mean anarchy, that freedom doesn't mean chaos, that when you say you're free, it doesn't mean you can do whatever you want, that you can break laws, that you can violate basic human freedoms, human rights. So I wish that tomorrow a complete REM in full composition would really respect all human rights and those politicians and those children and those people who are victims or potential victims of some, call a politician and a tycoon, who would love to rule all over Serbia. Of course, the media image in Serbia is different, depending on which angle you're looking from. If you're looking from the corner of a citizen who wants to inform himself, he has this pluralism, he has pluralism of opinion. You have one side of the media that is made, fully favored by one part of the opposition, the tycoon opposition, the criminal opposition that calls for the collapse of the system, the collapse of the state and constitutional order. You have on the other side of the media reporting in one objective way and I'd say a decent way. You have media that also during those violent protests in Belgrade several months ago reported, I would say with excitement, as it collapsed and burned in Belgrade, while some mass was trying to break into the Assembly, as they were breaking in, trying to rekindle the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have that part of the media that admired it. On the other hand, you have REM that never, ever reacts to anything or reacts at least when it is publicly determined by the so-called media. "independent" journalists, "independent" analysts, i.e. In fact, all politicians are calling for, no less than the destruction of the state, the murder of the President of the Republic, the lynching of his family, his children. How long can this lead to a young democracy like Serbia? We once watched what Satanization and demonization of politicians in Serbia look like, how does this end and what is it preparing for? What do some people actually use the media in Serbia for? Why can the media abuse everything? It is this abuse of the media that is the limit between freedom and chaos, that I spoke at first and that we must all learn together that this very history of the world is the advancement of the awareness of freedom and that it is constantly in our mind. I rather prefer this one, as they say "dangerous freedom, than their peaceful and certain slavery", here I quote Jean Jacques Russo, and he said "dangerous freedom". Of course it's dangerous to be free, but it's honorable, it's decent and decent, and we have to fight to preserve that freedom, to preserve the democracy we fought for, to learn that the Prime Ministers, the MPs don't choose on the streets, not to choose by force, not to take the pole, take the national flag, and try to fly into the National Assembly to deal with the officers who are supposed to guard our country and our children. Then you understand why these guys deal with the police. Look at their family ties, friendly relationships, godfather ties, all drug dealers and criminals. So who else to deal with than the police? Right there, we're going back to that border between freedom and chaos. We chose in 2012 not to have Serbia as a tycoon state, not to ban videos on television in Serbia, to have the right to say your opinion, not to be stamped in the media because of that opinion. It starts again on one side of the media scene in Serbia to make it normal for the president of the state to say all the worst, not to think differently, but to lie, to call for liquidations, to kill, to laugh about it, to make fun of people who want good for this country, who do good, who open factories, jobs, to make fun of parliament. It's nowhere in Europe. What are they talking about European values? Whether European values are a joke with parliament, their own parliament. So you're laughing at the citizens. It is the citizens who have chosen the National Assembly in the elections. They are citizens who decide with their pen on the election day they want in parliament and what assembly they want. This is exactly the picture that Serbian citizens wanted and achieved, but not demagogue, but because of the results achieved by the government led by the SNS and President Aleksandar Vucic, leading Serbia in the drawn direction we said in 2012 against the tycoon, for investment, for progress, for free media, for democratic elections, so we have achieved all of this in the previous eight years, and no less or less give them 3% of the censorship. Here, come on, come on, come on in, let's have some MPs. They're free when those people can't do it. To cross the census, you have to have a program, ideas, a vision of what kind of country you want, so let it be different from ours, but you have to have an idea. The idea wasn't to break into the Assembly, the idea wasn't to go before REM, ask for a ban on some private television. It's totally okay that private television has private owners, has its own editorial policy, has a way of achieving its commercial role to earn a private owner, that's fine, but it's not right to lie and lie fatly. It's not right to call for the collapse of the state from these media, it's wrong and then REM members to remain silent, to receive huge salaries and sleep at work. Now, that's not right. I want to believe that's not how it's gonna be in perspective. That what's in front of us and those people we support will do their job with honor. If the National Assembly, the people, through their elected representatives, have chosen you somewhere, then it is a great honor and then you work in the interest of these citizens, not in the interest of the tycoon. It's not all about receiving several hundred thousand a month. I suppose you have some cheek when you go out on the street and look at your neighbors and the people you meet every day. What will they tell you? Well, wait there, you're in REM, and you're quiet while you're calling the children of the President of the Republic, you're not saying anything. You don't comment on it in your news. There's nothing in those media, there's no saying-- sorry, we made a mistake, we lied. It doesn't exist. Not to be praised for building a hospital, not to be praised for getting a respirator, not to be praised for all that the state is doing today. Security for Serbian citizens. We've never heard - I'm sorry from any such media. So when it's wrong on the other hand, we have the strength to say -- sorry, we'll make mistakes, we'll do even better, and the citizens recognize it because serious people live in Serbia. That's why Serbian citizens choose serious people in serious places, and charlatans send them where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1745	I'm hanging in there. Master Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1746	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for candidates for members of the Council three very important independent state bodies. The main task of the Fiscal Council is to assess the credibility of fiscal policy, to deal with independent analysis of public finances and to ensure public responsibility by introducing fiscal policy. The fiscal council only performs its post when all three members of the council are elected, and since one member has resigned to the post today, we have before us a proposal from the candidate who has been submitted by the governor of the NBS. Dr. Bojan Dimitrijevic meets all legal requirements for the election of a member of the Fiscal Council. In his career so far, he stands out as an expert in economics, finance and banking, as shown in the attached biography. I hope that Mr Dimitrijevic will make the right contribution to continue to analyse the fiscal policy measures taken, encourage debates on fiscal policy, and thus assist the competent state authorities. It is often the Fiscal Council because of its views and the assessment on the target of various criticisms sometimes rightly and sometimes not. I believe that their great caution in various analyses and assessments cannot in any way harm the decisions and proposals of the Ministry of Finance and other authorities and in some ways represent a corrective factor in the analysis of fiscal policy. The most important thing is that our public finances are stable and that next year we will not be threatened. Serbia is not close to any danger from the fiscal crisis and will be able to carry out all its obligations neatly. As regards REM, two candidates for REM Council members were proposed by the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly, and this was explained by the Christmas MP, and two members supported by churches and religious communities. We see from their biographies that they meet all the necessary conditions to perform these functions. You can often see complaints about the work of this body, especially when it comes to reality programs, hate speech that can be heard in all these content as well as in political and public life. According to many REM is the main culprit for shutting down a large number of local media, as well as for their difficult position because they did not allow all media to have the same market conditions. REM has allowed that for years so-called years. cross-border televisions broadcast their programmes in cable networks in Serbia and are not exactly regulated by law. One of the remarks also refers to the inability to monitor events of particular importance, such as matches by the Serbian team and REM has failed to fulfil its legal obligation to determine which televisions have exclusive rights to transmit such events. I support the views of one of the candidates for a member of the Council who will advocate a change of the Law on Electronic Media, in order to bring the television and the media industry into order. First of all, he means criminal policy in terms of large and drastic fines for hate speech, incorrect information, various abuses by politicians, public figures and media, which he unfortunately has every day. I think it's really time for the media space to be arranged in accordance with all the legal acts and that as a society, we deserve an orderly public electronic media. With the support of these members, we give them the chance to contribute better and more successful work of the Council through their efforts and professional work. The Finance and Budget Committee has established a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We see that it is a seriously verified staff that has performed various public functions, and this will be Mr. Kovacevic's third term in the Board of Governors. I think it will continue to work successfully to make the National Bank of Serbia the most successful of our institutions in the coming period. The JS parliamentary group will support all these proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1747	National MP Aleksandar Mirkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1748	Thank you. Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I think that the previous speakers have made it clear how important these proposals are, how important the National Assembly has been to discuss today's important decisions, we have been through them, we have faced opinions about each, we have heard some good proposals, we have heard some criticism, but I certainly believe that every item of the agenda that lies ahead is important and important for the citizens of Serbia. When we talk about the human resources of REM, the National Bank, when these proposals concern everything that citizens in their lives comment on every day, we can't look back on what surrounds them every day. Here we have mentioned some media, especially colleagues from my parliamentary group, who are directly controlled by Dragan Gilas and, unfortunately, when we talk about REM, we cannot look back on the fact that the last few sessions back in my colleagues and I are asking some simple questions that don't take much time, and to God we don't have much knowledge to get a concrete answer. Unfortunately, we haven't received it yet, and it concerns specifically the videos he mentioned, I think, and counterpart Milicevic. So, on what basis, why, how did the two media media directly influenced by Dragan Gilas broadcast more than 400 videos at a price of 1.2 billion dinars or about 3,000 dinars per minute, and only 28 videos that were used to promote SNS cost only 3.9 billion dinars, which is about a minute 140 thousand dinars? We still didn't get an answer to that question. We didn't even get an answer to the question whether it's okay for those media people sitting in this room today or not, and MPs are in this assembly, to be satanized just because of their opinion, attitude or something they said in this room. We didn't even get an answer whether it's okay to make whole shows against President Alexander Vukic and his family, where there's a bunch of lies and notorious lies, and when it's proved to be lies and false, they don't even give an apology. Unlike them, I must admit that I am quite and pleasantly surprised. At a session on December 8th, I referred a question to the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the prosecution. My question was whether they examined the allegations given by Chaba Der, which concerns that two criminal clans from these premises offered him money to kill Alexander Vukic. To my pleasant surprise, I must admit, the answer has arrived and how I referred the question from this place is fine and that answer from this place and read it. "In connection with requests for notification and an explanation by MP Aleksandar Mirkovic at the National Assembly session on 8 December 2020, we would like to inform you that the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime is taking certain actions to obtain information on the statement given by Caba Der. “ So the honourable MPs, the citizens of Serbia, all the things we talked about, my colleagues and I, the questions we kept asking were not without reason. At the very least, we are the strictest critics of the prosecution for the simple reason that we believe there is a lot of work for them, and when it comes to Dragan Gilas and his assets that he cannot possibly explain to him where his companies are from, 25,000,000 euros in real estate, 35 properties held by his brother, estimated at 5,500,000 euros. So we are the ones who have many questions and often criticise that we believe that the prosecution in any case or in the case of Dragan Gilas may not have done its job to the end. But, you see, and the prosecution is now responding and this clearly proves that the threats addressed to Alexander Vukic must be taken seriously. Now another question is being asked which is based on REM, which is why and why is it that two media media media directly influenced by Dragan Gilas with another portal that he directly controls and edits, want to discredit the security of President Aleksandar Vukic? Why, what's their goal? What do they want to do with it? I think without that answer, it's clear to the citizens. This is just another proof that any threat that comes to any citizen's address, even if he is called Aleksandar Vukic, must be given some kind of epilogue and must be investigated to the end, because the rights of citizens in Serbia must not be denied, and especially not by people who think that some bloody scenario will come into power to replace the lack of trust of citizens. I hope we don't have the need to ask any more, nor to be interested in the safety of President Alexander Vukic, as we hope that Dragan Gilas along with his failed alliance, I don't even know what they're called, because they've had another fight today and they've split up, they'll never think of their own political attitudes as hating anyone who doesn't think like them again. Also, the people we choose today, who will be in REM, must take their work seriously and that we all together as a society create an atmosphere in society that is not enough on one television to appear, accuse Alexander Vukic of being a thief, that he is a traitor, that his brother is not a tycoon, and when it is proven all the opposite, you do not send an apology. That's not the Serbia we want to live in, and that's the Serbia that Dragan Gilas left us when he left power. Thank God and responsible policy for President Aleksandr Vukic and the Serbian government that this Serbia has changed and never again will Dragan Djilas or Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic return us to that dark past. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1749	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1750	Thank you. Since the transmission is gone, I guess it's democratic, the Assembly doesn't matter, it's definitely about wrestling. I don't have any dilemma, but this is a national representation, and the people should be aware of what's going on here. So I've never been clear on that RTS move to interrupt the assembly session, because I think citizens should know what's going on here. Speaking of RTS, I have to say that I'm so very angry with that television, especially how they determine what should be transmitted, what not, whose speech should be transmitted, where they should be involved, where they shouldn't interfere, what to do, what not to frame, what to do, what shows they have, but whatever else I might say, someone would interpret it to put pressure on the media, so I don't want to do it. However, today's RTS is precisely the fruit of having a bunch of NGOs that are supposed to be called independent bodies, and I am essentially staying on as long as my colleague Tomic is angry or disputing it to me, I claim that most of these are independent so-called. bodies designed to employ the non-governmental sector. So that's where I'm stuck. Now that we're discussing all these bodies that are here today, I have to point out once again that I would personally ask myself to shut it down, because I think they're completely unnecessary bodies. They don't serve anything, except that they come up with the budget as leeches and suck the blood out of this people, but what do you do, that's how it is. They say it's democratic. If you were to accidentally say something against them, then all these people from Europe would jump, and since they're unfortunately determining a lot of things, everywhere in the world through this neoliberal ideology of theirs, then you have to sort of comply with it. The right to tell you, whenever we elected someone into these independent bodies, 90% of those people later turned to Alexander Vukic and against the current government. They never turned against the previous ones because they were their staffs from the same line, but against any authority that has any national omens were regularly against and have always been chosen under some kind of pressure, whether these from Europe press for someone from the NGO sector somewhere and then say – it has to be or no one else. I found it particularly interesting in those conversations when we had this year with the opposition and last year, about the elections, why Tanja Fajon was so interested in this REM and what the REM really meant to them. Then you realize that REM meant something to them because they were able to control absolutely complete media and not just media, but advertising space first. They were most interested in it because they could go on uninterruptedly, do business by never being told by anyone in REM that they were breaking the law, because they paid absolutely nothing for any single commercial. They take money out of the country, they don't report any taxes, rob society and nobody. Milina one, no one has anything to object to, God forbid you sue people, that they know that, TV N1, Nova S, can slander you however you want, you can't sue them, because their legal teams bring to court confirmation that they're not registered here and you can take pictures, as the people would say. You can never ask for a fee of immaterial damage, because they say it's not domestic television. Since they're not domestic television, they don't pay any taxes to the state. I have to admit that we're in this, I think, a unique country in the world that allows it. I don't even know why this is allowed today, but REM is silent, and I hope that those chosen and some new will have a little more courage, but I doubt it. We're going to vote them here anyway, but honestly, I don't know what the effect is. A moment ago when I changed that advertising space, you know, I often hear here about this gentleman who was formerly mayor and who left a billion and 200m euros in debt to the city of Belgrade, they say, he was an earlier successful businessman. I like to compare it, when he came to power in 2006, I'm talking about Mr. Gilas, that's when he first joined the ministry. His financial balances on the account then and from 2006 onwards. You know, when someone tells you about freedom of the media, and he owns the media with a tycoon. So he owned it with Miskovic in the daily list "Pres". Now they're telling us about freedom of the media. Let's just say the situation today is that Alexander Vukic is in co-ownership with any media in Serbia or that he owns any media, that's what the APR says. We couldn't live. I don't know what they'd be doing to us here. They let the dead cold ones do it and they're telling you about freedom of the media today. You know how they worked back then? By all commercials, the media usually live on commercials, not so much from reading or watching, but from living off commercials. If Gilas's firm didn't give you commercials during that period, you could have shut yourself down. Then you're being blackmailed. You're either going to write like this or we're shutting you down or you're going to play the contributions we're looking for, or we're going to shut you down anyway, and that's how it worked. And these people are talking about freedom of the media today, and the only reason why they want to get to REM is because I'm afraid that they're gonna get to that REM is because no one would warn them about breaking the law and how they're using their cable distributor and television that owns that cable distributor, which is an additional flagrant violation of the law, just so no one would warn them. Here's a classic example of madness. You have two televisions owned by a cable distributor. It is something that is unremembered, and unfortunately in Serbia is allowed, in fact not allowed, but no one punishes, REM is not advertised. Then you have an incredible situation that citizens who pay cable distributor essentially pay these two TVs that are charged out of it. It's a crime of its kind. It's banditism. But what to do and it seems to be allowed here. With that in mind, I'd like to comment on this fiscal advice. You know, the Fiscal Council, depending on how they make a statement like that, it's just you who mentioned the media to the current government or who went down on the Fiscal Council. When the Fiscal Council criticises the current government, then these media outlets go trees and rocks, look how the government robs us, here's the Fiscal Council said it. However, when the Fiscal Council, in rare situations to the soul, but it does indeed, commend the authorities, then it attacks the Fiscal Council. Shame on them, it's the wolf's half-trons, etc. Then you see a completely abnormal situation that is ruling in this country, but I think the citizens should know that, too. All in all, I'll personally see if I vote for this. Maybe I will, maybe I won't, I don't even know how important it is since I don't expect any of these people to come there, because I generally don't have any expectations of these independent bodies. It would be best for this country if everything returned nicely to the ministries, not for the ministries to turn into icabans, and for these independent bodies to be given so much authority. What if it does, if it helps, I'd be very glad to have these people do something there. After all, many of us in this country depend on much on this so-called, as they like to emphasize, the fourth branch of government, although I cannot agree that it is the fourth branch of government, because it is so introduced, depends on us much in our lives on them. Unfortunately, but here I am telling you, it might be best if all these various agencies, independent bodies were one day removed and that for history it would remain as a model that never in life such a thing should again be formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-16-0.u1751	Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I would just like to ask if the presidents and representatives of groups or proposings want the word? Thank you, no one wants to. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 18, 19 and 20 of the agenda. We will continue tomorrow with a debate in detail on the set of laws. As we have announced, expect that in the afternoon, it will mean 15 hours, we will see exactly when the day will be, or the time to vote. Thank you. Have a nice day. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. If you didn't hear me, I'd ask the MPs to take their seats and start working. Thank you. Please insert your cards into your MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall at the moment, which means there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. As always, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure, do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? I'd ask the service to determine what it's about, since it's not heard on this side. Mirsad Hodzic answered his word. Here you go.
