ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69368	I ask you MPs to hurry up with your work-preparations and insert the cards so I have some idea how many of us there are, that we can continue for a few more minutes to finish the session, join the vote. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 94 MPs are present in the hall. We continue the search in details of the 10th agenda - Proposal for a law on archival construction and archival activity. A Member of the 38th Amendment was sent by Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69369	Mrs. Gojkovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's to continuing this serious story that is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia, and here I have to potential Mr. Minister and every local self-government. This amendment is essentially our wish to extend the period of use after 30 years, but we have put it into hold if there are any reasons for individual competent state authorities to make it, for these known reasons, impossible to make it impossible. What reasons could there be? They can be if the archival structure isn't stored properly. I will make an example out of the town of Novi Sad, from where Mrs. President, colleague Mircic and some other MPs, Mr. Micin, who is indeed in the right sense of the word, is an extremely valuable structure, collapsed during the Dossier government, who has not all changed there and the province in the basement without any protection. When experts came from the PMF, and that could happen anywhere, Mr. Minister, where it wasn't adequately done, so we're in favour of education wherever there is a valuable structure, at least we have so many young experts from those colleges, mini labs that are going to examine it. Those agents that were found were life-threatening to anyone who approached such a building, it's truly amazing. Some of it's even completely rotted, etc. The archiveman's job, if anyone thinks it's just so easy, it's not at all. In the second amendment I will talk about increasingly popular digitisation through an example that has already been completed and with... to keep it going in others.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69370	Thank you. You're way out of time. Let's move on. A Member of the 40th Amendment was sent by a Member of the Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69371	In order for this entire archival structure to be preserved in an adequate manner from the level of local self-government and the Republic of Serbia and to be useful to all those who are in the future and how important it is for Mr. Minister to access the digitalisation process absolutely everywhere through a methodology that is very serious. You know that the project digitization of Tesla construction at the "Nikola Tesla" museum lasted years. You managed to end it. Now every citizen of Serbia, every student who wants to learn something about Nikola Tesla's life through an application popular on mobile phones, can look at it, and not only that, all young scientists, all researchers, all of whom had no idea about the life of the world's most famous scientist, the Serb, Nikola Tesla, can see from that digitalized building there were over 160,000 Tesla documents, which were carefully and very systematically digitized. This way I also want to congratulate the entire team from museums and all those who helped them, starting with his sister's first letter, through the very important documents he had with diplomats, with scientists from all over the world. It is indeed something that is a huge cultural treasure of Serbia, and it would be necessary and I believe that you will, and will have to do so every future government, allocate more resources to digitise in all archives at Serbia's level.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69372	Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69373	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if an exhibition of archive construction was organised today on Montenegro, Vuk Jeremic would certainly be one of the examples of archive construction. How he said it was 2006 – j... Serbia-Montenegro mother and vice versa. It would be a good example of the archive building, and Bosko Obradovic today throws trees and stones at us, his coalition partner and ally, that we are to blame for some relations between Serbia and Montenegro. It wasn't us, Serbia didn't separate from Montenegro, it was the other way around. We did not recognise the territory of Montenegro another country. Montenegro has confessed to another country in our territory. We did not divide with some state in Montenegro's territory, but rather Milo Djukanovic and Milogores did. We didn't steal the letter and language from the Montenegrins, Montenegro, it's the other way around. The archival structure that would talk about these times since 2006, would clearly show that they've taken many former Yugoslav republics and territories from us, they've also taken our language, they've taken our letter, some of our culture, they've taken our letters. Here, Montenegrins, they invented two letters, so they're 32. I don't mind if they use their two newly formed letters, but I'm against them using 30 of our letters. Have them return 30 of our letters, and let them speak with their two. I'm against them taking a piece of our culture. They want to take our sanctity. So archive construction should clearly show that while we are protecting Montenegro's integrity, they are destroying Serbia's integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69374	Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Our synopsiss aren't equal to me and the deputy secretary general, so we're checking. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is "Zarko Micin."
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69375	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the representatives of the ministry. I have submitted an amendment to Article 46(1). The law on archival construction and archival activity that I asked the city of Novi Sad to remain the manager of the historical archive of the city. Why did I ask for that? Because the city of Novi Sad absolutely deserved it. You know the historical archives for the city of Novi Sad have an extremely great significance. In this historical archive, more than 8,319 meters of historical buildings are preserved. The archive has kept historic construction since 1748, under 952 funds. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Thank you. Thank you to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for recognising the importance of the city of Novi Sad being the manager of the historical archives, for recognising the efforts of the city of Novi Sad headed by Mayor Milos Vučević to preserve the historical structure. Thank you for recognising how much we have promoted the culture in Novi Sad, which is why we are the European capital of culture for 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69376	Thank you. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69377	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS considers it necessary to bring together archives relating to the country's security, which is to be archives in one place, primarily within the Military Archive when it comes to information and archive construction as regards the Serbian Ministry of Interior. Since I've worked for more than 20 years in the Security Service, I can tell you that at the time there were very well-preserved security records, archive construction, co-operation with the Army was at the highest level. As far as the archives are concerned, I must say that after 1945, property was taken from our citizens from 1945 to 1953, and that tens of tens of thousands of citizens could not obtain documentation of the seized property and thus suffer damage. In 2000, the Dossov betraying regime opened all archives to agents and foreign intelligence services, so they also set up their advisers and agents and instructors in police structures and in the service of security, BIA, MUP and military intelligence services. This is the issuing regime that has caused invaluable damage to our country's authorities and security, and therefore more attention must be taken to the unique security situation in the case of archival structure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69378	Thank you. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 59th amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 63. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69379	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here have heard from the ministry's representatives, or the minister's that the acute problem with this area is lack of space. Second, personnel deficit. It's something that's chronic. The problem with Serbia, when it comes to us as a society. It's something more intense since 2000 because since 2000, this new democratic power that has come to the waves of bulldozers has convinced us that we don't care about the past at all, that we can't be prisoners of the past, but live for the future. The fact that they advocated it was obvious that a good deed was reflected in this area when it came to the archives and when it comes to archival construction. We are not aware of how significant this is, and on the other hand, what is the indication of the real person and society and the relationship of the government to that society. If we don't take care of the archival structure, if we don't take care of the continuity of human renewal, we actually ignore everything that makes the state, which makes the nation, which in some ways is recognizable to a society that is responsible for itself and to others. When you go to the Greek Archives, which is located in northern Greece, you will see in Thessaloniki that everything relating to history, economy, ownership, everything about Greece and the Greek people is underfed, microfilmed and complete documentation. When the debate comes, they are already ready because they have material that can prove both property and territoriality. So they take care of their past and their future.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69380	Thank you. The 63rd Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69381	We can agree at the end of this debate, Mr. Minister, all of us, and especially you, and I believe your team of people who have worked on this law, that the more Serbia's archivism is more developed, the cultural memory of our people is greater. The archives, like some non-intrusive institutions, are available to all. Their role should be to give the opportunity to anyone who wants to deal with this, to turn national identity, the national cultural treasure of Serbia into certain documentary film projects, books and all that it needs to serve future generations. You know, when a young researcher from some field, a social life needs to find an idea, ultimately for his doctoral dissertation or for some further learning, then he has to bear in mind that not every archive is available to him in the way that the law clearly requires, because there will be many obstacles in the sense that a certain archival structure has not been preserved as long as anyone knows since the end of World War I and World War II. This time, I would like to commend the team of researchers who, together with the historical archive of Pogorets, made one project on Serbia on the Great War. It's a really valuable project that was presented last year. They simply realized that in the historical archive of the Firefighter and those scientists who would not now be here that, without their permission, they wanted to provide another picture of all of that and the suffering and heroism and the suffering of the entire people in the Great War. That should be a lesson and a message for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69382	Thank you. The 65th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69383	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, criminal provisions provide for penalties for violations, and the competent public archive has the right to apply for criminal and criminal proceedings in order to achieve measures of protection and use of cultural goods. We asked by amendment for a change of fines for certain violations, because this is a very sensitive and specific area. Our intention is to sanction law enforcement as fair as possible. The responsible person has a high degree of responsibility because it can result in the permanent destruction of a cultural good and therefore the punishment for the offence committed must be adequate damage that may have occurred or may arise. In the case of highly sensitive, confidential and significant documents for the security of the state, such a structure must be equipped, managed and kept in such a way that this documentation and archival structure cannot be made available to foreign intelligence services and their agents. It is known that very top-secret information has been handed over to foreign agents and intelligence agencies representing the first degree of security of our country. In 2000, the DOS opened all archives of our intelligence services and handed over to the enemies of the Serbian people. That's why we insist on just sanctioning the offenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69384	The 65th Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69385	The archives are therefore socially built institutions that should be available to all. But what's important here and what's potential in this part of the law, that's how someone's gonna get into that job and pass a professional exam. Many studies have been written about this, Mr. Minister. It's not an easy and simple job and we think that you should further specify this extremely important calling, which someone thinks is just the way you're going to attract young people researchers to do this job in the future. Because that job requires, first of all, a lot of patience, knowledge, and education. From how an archivist is going to do the job, a document that he has in his hands, how he's going to store it, how he's going to take care of it in any archive, depends on the future of what he's testifying about. Therefore, I think you should pay more attention to this and provide additional knowledge, with some team of experts, there are them from this area, especially local self-governments that have a rare and very valuable archival structure that testifies to our national identity.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69386	The Committee on Culture and Information submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motionary, Minister Vukosavljevic, to declare the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69387	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69388	Thank you. The minister has accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 70th amendment. Is he here? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, one day the archival structure will certainly be entered by some authorial works, and I will list some examples of where United Group, which is owned by United Media, registered in Luxembourg, owner of SBB, owner of fake cross-border channels N1, "New S", Sports clubs, "Sinemania", "Grande", etc., registered in Luxembourg, allegedly replays the programme in Serbia even though it does not broadcast in Luxembourg. That's when he broadcasts commercials. By airing ads, he takes bread in Serbia with registered television channels. He's been arguing with Telecom these days. These media, since they are not registered in Serbia, cannot be sued. Copyright provided by SOKOJ and other copyright protected organisations cannot collect anything, because the media is not registered in Serbia. Contrary to the Law on Electronic Media, on the one hand, they broadcast ads, endanger those who work perfectly legally and come to the position that pirate channels, taking bread to domestic media, on the other hand, copyright artists pay absolutely nothing. On that occasion, they cannot be sued, as their lawyers say - since they are not registered in the APR, since they are not registered in the register of electronic media, they are not subject to any legal sanctions. Since the Ministry of Culture and Information is taking care of that part, I'm also wondering -- how do these foreign television stations think they're taking part in an election campaign, if they're really foreign television? It is then a rude interference in the internal political opportunities and electoral conditions in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-24-0.u69390	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday, January 24, 2020, starting at 10.45 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. Please start right on time for the vote, because of the other obligations we have. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the polls, please let us determine how many MPs there are in the O.R. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 135 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that we have accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against, no one with abstentions, is one. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 10, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 135 against – one abstention. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the draft stamp law to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one MP, voted for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 28, which was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 30, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 63rd vote tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 82 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 90, which was tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 109 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting a vote on the Bill of Marks bill, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted three MPs. I find that the bill of stamps has been passed. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on article 8, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 10 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 20 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 24 which were submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the founding of an education and education system. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted one MP for – 137. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4, with an amendment, submitted by Parliamentarian Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted one MP for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education and education. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on dual education, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted one MP for – 137. I find the bill accepted in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Dual Education Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Dual Education Act. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the status of the French school in Belgrade, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted for – 138, against – two MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Marrakesh Treaty to allow access to published works by persons who are blind, weak-sighted or otherwise disabled to use printed materials, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted for – 138, against – two MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of education, science and technology, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted for – 137, no one. I find that the bill has been passed. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted one MP for – 137. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 31, which was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 34 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put to the vote a bill on amendments to the Law on Culture, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136, v - one, abstentioned - two, two, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments to the Law on Culture. I put the draft law on archival construction and archival activity to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 137, no one, with abstentions, voted two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 19, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 23, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 31, which was tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 35, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 38, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 44 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 54, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 58 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 59, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying three. I am putting the amendments to the 63rd vote tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 63rd vote tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 65th vote by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 65th vote tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 74 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. The amendment was not accepted. I'm putting the draft law on archival construction and archival activity in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted for – 138, against – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on archival construction and archival activity. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the surrender of the Petersburg Gospel to the Republic of Serbia and pictures of Nikola Konstantinovich Rerich to the Russian Federation, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by two MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
