ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u101	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. As rapporteur of the Assembly Committee on Justice, State and Local Self-Government, I wanted to say a few words about this law. I invite you, of course, to vote for him. The law on ministries as well as before the formation of each government is changed in certain matters depending on what the government declares as its goal. I must point out that something very important to me, one ministry, for example, being introduced, and I don't think we've had a chance to talk about the Serbian village for a long time, I think it's very important to introduce a ministry that will take care of the Serbian village. What bothers me, and I will try to put it in the shortest lines to say about this law itself and in general the formation of the entire government, and I will certainly talk about it in the further term during the debate, and that is the inscriptions in the media on the very formation of the government. You know, the president of Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic, has declared some six goals, very important for this society, for this country. We're not even aware of what we're going to be facing in some future period of difficulty. What's terrible about it is that no one writes about it. That's what nobody's talking about, and I'm afraid that as a society, we're sick because the only thing that matters to us is what the media is writing, and that's who's going to go to which place, as if it's the most important person to take some ministerial post. Who cares about that? I guess you can see who's capable of doing something, who has some expertise to do something about it, that he's operational enough, that he can contribute to the state. No, we're just talking about who's gonna take what place the stranger belongs to, who's gonna take some resort. That's what we unfortunately inherited after 2000, and unfortunately today it's being repainted. I know how hard it is to form a government and please something somewhere because everyone thinks that God is day and best in the world, only he is a minister. What's scarier when I see them planting each other in the media, so to put pressure, they say, they give to a journalist, and they say, "I'll be the minister, we'll put this other one away, and so on, I'm not talking about these embassies that are a little bit so they try to push, to put someone on their man and stuff." That's why I answered, because I sincerely hope that when we find out who Mrs. Brnabic is going to propose here on Sunday, it won't be those who put it in the paper a little bit or on some of the portals of their character that they are the only God-given ministers here, but that it will be something quite different. The Ministry Act itself gives us a broad possibility that we can really have quality people, enough operational and sufficiently educated and certainly people with great political experience who will be able to do something somewhere. Once again, it is not at all important which party will take what resolution, but is much more important which minister knows how to do something for this country and this people. Thank you very much and I invite you to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u102	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, the Committee's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u103	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives discussed the proposal for a law on ministries that submitted 167 MPs to the "Alexandar Vukic – for our children" group and, as stated in the report that we have sent to the National Assembly, we believe that the same proposal is in line with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. In further discussion, I will look more closely at this proposal, and now I am merely submitting the report as a rapporteur of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u104	Thank you. Would any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups like to speak? The word has Dragan Markovic Palm, not over the link, but the first one signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would especially like to commend the proposal to insert three more ministries, and to make one of those three help the village. Given that the Minister of Agriculture has a lot of work to do and that he can't go around every village and see what's missing from the village and from the farmers, I don't use the term "farmers", maybe we're bigger peasants than the farmers themselves, that's an insult to the farmers, and that we don't use farmers only in the election campaign and, thank God, today is on the agenda. First of all, we need to see how to keep the farmers and those citizens living in the country. In fact, 86% of Serbia's villages disappear, young people go to cities, some other countries, because earlier years the price of agricultural products and what their families produced, I think in time from 7-8 years ago, was not satisfactory for invested work and work and obligations, what is called electricity, infostan, consumer basket etc. Once upon a time, up to 10 years ago, or 2000 years ago, who had 20 cows in the barn today has none. Not because this agricultural producer, sir, doesn't want to work, but every year he lost one cow, or two, because of the difference in the price of the instruction, if he has to take the land for hire and buy hay, corn and all that is related to the feeding of cattle. We need to see how to help these agricultural producers, first of all, to create conditions that there is no difference in how to live in the city and in the country, that the bus is from 5 to 11 in the morning, so that not only can agricultural producers but also family members go to the city and municipalities they belong to, to help the agricultural producer. He doesn't ask for money if he doesn't do anything. The agricultural producer is looking for a secure buyer, guaranteed a price, and the state tells him what to sow next year. Because Mr. agricultural producer has no statistics on the import and export of agricultural products, what is imported and what is exported. I used to say that we should be looking when some big markets in Serbia are opening that 80% of the products in the shelves of these markets are currently Serbian products. Of course, because of earlier years and some signed agreements and obligations that have been harmful to agricultural producers from year to year, we can't pay back. It takes some attention to those grain and wheat dealers. It's not the state's fault that the price of grain has been 12 years, ladies and gentlemen, 16 to 18 dinars. Since 2012, the previous government has increased the subsidy, not only for agricultural producers, those engaged in agricultural culture, but also for the purchase of tractors, connected machines, and this is of great assistance to agricultural producers. Who's the most vulnerable in the country? Milk producers. We know that without milk, we cannot protect children and that milk is used almost 70% for what is called human nutrition. They have a problem with customers, with buyers, and we need to see how to guarantee the price of the agricultural producer, how much one liter of milk it will cost, that he knows and that he can't have a fat unit determining his buyer or one that comes in a tanker outside the gate of the agricultural producer and says – you're not 4651, but you're 2.5 or 2.7, and he's almost 50% down the cost of what's called a liter of milk. And there he needs to see how the state can help and prevent those buyers and buyers who charge at a cost 10 times the price of processing the sweat of a Serbian gentleman called the agricultural producer. It's very hard to live in the country today. First, we need to create conditions in the infrastructure. You know, ladies and gentlemen, over 40% of Serbia's villages have no asphalt, no home culture, not to mention water, etc. Thank God, the president of Serbia has announced that everything that is related to both sewers and the water network will be in all villages. But if we don't create conditions, that there aren't at least two sports grounds in the village, a field for big sports, a playground for small sports, a home for culture, an ambulance, a post office, a retirement club, a cultural and artistic society, then we can't expect to keep these young people in the country and that they live off their work. I'm saying all this as someone who lives in the country and I know what the trouble of a farmer is, because once a year he comes to the steam, from corn, from wheat, from the deteline. From the pig comes two, two and a half times a year, the pig is a pig. But also, I don't know who the village development minister will be, that gentleman needs to know all that and know what the trouble is and the problem of the agricultural producer. It's a very important culture, to keep the culture in the country. But not only do we say - here are your rooms at school, so there's some cultural and artistic practice. Cultural and artistic society must be respected. If UNESCO has recognised the Serbian circuit as a cultural heritage, then we must keep Serbian culture in the country and in some way create conditions for these young people to deal with culture and to have a place to check time. Those who are talented at sports, to play sports, those who have other talents, to help them. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's a good proposal and finally to ask the village, what would our people say, through the minister and that new portfolio and that the state continues to help in terms of subsidies. What else is the problem? The problem is that today the boys in the country are harder and slower women than the guys living in the city, because they don't want girls to go to the village and live in the village. If we create all these conditions, have water, gas, sewerage, home, sports grounds, bus, more shops, then we will keep our attention and say – see, you have all the conditions to live like those living in the city. That the village does not serve the so-called village. Mr. City. Each of us may have caught himself more than once to go to the village of his father or mother or relatives, if there was a father and mother far away and they died, to fill up a bag for you, because a real Serbian host, when you go to him, he doesn't send you to the gate to go without serving you and sending you something. And that we are not served by agricultural producers only for that. We now average between 8% and 15% of single and single, but more single men, over 35 years of age. What do their parents expect? The greatest joy is to marry your daughter, marry your son, become grandparents, because that's the purpose of life, but the purpose of life is to create conditions, to work and to make everyone live from their work. And we who work here in parliament to know that the farmer doesn't have a hot meal, no regression, no sick leave, nothing. If it doesn't work, he doesn't come out alone, if he's late to pick up hay in the field, it rains, he worked for nothing that year. One elemental accident, in one year it takes a agricultural producer three years to return to cover what he invested that year when it was an elementary disaster. Fortunately for us, there are fewer and fewer natural disasters, there are those dealing with vegetables, there are also anti-building protections, but a farmer can't afford to invest in something he doesn't have, because he has to invest in the money he's earned. So, it's very difficult to live in the country today, there's a big difference between citizens living in the country and in the city. Once again, since I know for a fact that this was suggested by Alexander Vukic, I want to congratulate him on this proposal, because he visited every village and saw how to live in the country. Young, and now this resort that is related to the fight against white plague, etc., perhaps another ministry should be introduced, which is the Ministry of School Sport. Why the school sport? We have the best talent in schools, but those talents are meant to be followed, directed, understood? Kids are born with a 15% talent, and 80% of the work and effort comes to a real professional, if someone works with him, or someone finds him. I introduced school competitions in Jagodina, or inter-school competitions. Believe me, there are more audiences when children of eighth grade, one and the other schools compete in basketball, small football, table tennis or volleyball, than audiences who come to the stadium to watch a big sport, or big football. Watch "Star" and "Partizan", so now let's ask each of us, I don't know, who are the players of the football club "Red Star" and "Partizana"? We have no idea! Well, strangers. I don't mind strangers, come on, poor or two strangers, but you sell the player right now, what's talent, someone else's, and when he comes to play for Serbia, he'll trip, like Grandma Mileva, he'll keep his legs, because when he gets back to that club, he won't lose a lot of money. We miss that ministry terribly. Let me give you another piece of information. Kids don't go to physical school. Hey, well, we liked it better physically at school, they don't. But if we say - you who win first place in football go seven days to the sea; you who win first place in basketball will get sweatpants and five thousand dinars. People, I don't say this as a demagogue, I bought the first ice skating station in Serbia and children compete each year and get money from first to 10 places: 5,000, 10,000. 20,000 and that's their first money they made through sports. To go back to football clubs, and "Star" and "Partizan", so nobody knows now that we're counting, let's play basketball, I don't watch basketball anymore, as a athlete who was a militant athlete, I don't watch. What am I looking at? Who? Who plays for the Star? Who plays for "Partizan"? We used to be champions of the world and of Europe and in basketball, and in football, etc. I ask that these other resistors, which are also related to sport, and to youth, and for education to pay a little more attention to schools right now. It's a human base. Why "Bern," why "Atletico," why "Barcelona" have young players good? Because they have a base, but that base has to be nurtured, that base has to be useful. An elementary school teacher who makes two good athletes must be privileged to have a certain cash compensation. Unfortunately, there's no love for sports anymore. Love lasts for a while. Interest. And because interest comes first because "Star" and "Partizan" and today owe huge money, even though they played for the League of Champions and the League of Europe. There's no love, there's no love, there's just interest. Why? Because we haven't had a base in schools, in the country and so on. What are the kids in the country gonna do? They don't have anywhere to go during the day if they don't go to school, not to say again, yesterday I was saying I'm against going to high school for seven days, and seven days doesn't go, that's a weird thing for me. If my father and mother say - I want my child to go to school, so who are you to love someone else's child more than your parents? How are those kids gonna be good students tomorrow, experts and so on? That's my opinion. I don't want to convince anyone and say, "I'm a politician of general practice." I'm not a politician of general practice. That's what the waist said. Look, we all have masks. How long are we gonna carry them? We MPs can wear masks, but go to school, the kids won't wear masks. What was I gonna say about that? We have to live with the crown to work. To ask those who hold the conference for an hour and a half, for an hour and a half to talk about the crown, for an hour and a half, they want to convince me that I was born without my mother. We mentally destroy Serbian citizens that way. I would especially like to thank the doctors, the doctors, their honor! They've been working all summer in those vans, helping, saving a lot of lives, but this is something that's got the whole world hooked up. The state won't have any more money to give three times 30,000 and two times 18000 factories that don't work. It's already happening that 30% of the employees of large factories, large giants don't work or go into quarantine because a colleague has a fever and 30 of them have gone into quarantine. Do you understand? We in parliament should fight to do some survey in Serbia and ask the citizens what to do. It was a strange decision for me-- pensioners from three to six o'clock in the morning going shopping. It is not known whether it is harder for pensioners or for those who work in the shops. What those pensioners didn't go shopping at five o'clock was curfew, five to eight, so we need life practice, life experience. It is this Parliament that serves and that we propose and say -- people, we live in over a hundred cities, and it is not the same in every city. In those cities where the level of risk has been increased and the front of the number of infected, all right, in these cities and that all these measures are respected, but for example, in Jagodina, for 38 days there are no citizens that are positive or infected by the crown. When it was recommended not to make green markets, there was green markets in Jagodina. Customers came from all over the market, producers from all over Serbia, and none of them got infected. The fair - 10,000 people in Jagodina, none of them got infected. Aqua park - 6,000 people one Saturday, none of them got infected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u106	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next head of Parliament's club, allow me, honourable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to inform you that today the National Assembly will probably, since we don't know it now, need to make that decision that there is this possibility that we will be working after 18 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to take acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Second, I want to tell you right away that the break will be from 14:00 to 15.00 today. Thirdly, I would like to tell you immediately and to announce that today, after the debate is over, we will have a vote on these items of the agenda that will not be discussed in detail. So these are two points of the agenda concerning the election of the Republic Election Commission and the Deputy Secretary-General, so I ask all the club bosses and MPs to keep it all in mind, and when it comes to work after 1800 hours and about a break in our work and about an announcement to vote. What I said about taking a break, that's what I'm saying just because it's important that there's order. We start at 10:00. It's been known since the break, every day from 2:00 to 3:00 p.m. when we're working. We move on if there's any need after 6:00, so we can plan our activities. I'm saying this now that they didn't write to me, so I have to point out. I would like to say that all vice-presidents of the Assembly will chair meetings of the National Assembly in advance and that should also enable this National Assembly to be a home where we will cultivate mutual tolerance and mutual responsibility for the functioning and dignity of our Parliament. Let's move on. According to the rules that exist here, first word is given to the smallest parliamentary groups. So, as the list is now reported, I now give the word to Enis Imamovic, who speaks on behalf of the United Valley Group - SDA Sandzak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. At first, I would like to say that the United Valley MPs' group, the SDA Sandzak, will not support this bill. And this law and this convocation, unfortunately, is on its way to an emergency procedure. For four months, you waited for the Government Act to be put into an emergency procedure and we are again forced to seriously analyse such a serious law, and then prepare amendments and discussions for 24 hours. What was it for four months if it wasn't the Government Act, and we see it wasn't? If we move in line, we see that this law, and especially the new ministries, has not dealt with anything too studioy. But at first glance, this bill does not foresee tasks for the government that provide an adequate response to the reality in which our society is today and to the challenges and problems facing all our citizens, especially when it comes to minority peoples. We as a society, but also as an institution of parliament, for only Vucica's known reasons, after the election we were in one long-term vacuum, and if nothing else, at least we expected the ruling majority in these little over four months to use time to write a serious and studioous bill on government that respects the new reality and which answers the problems facing our citizens today, but also the rest of the world. The proposal says that the ministries that have been changed within 30 days of the entry into force of this law will therefore be given a deadline to consolidate, which means that they will have another month less to work in full capacity, given that the government has a limited period of time until May 2022. What exactly do they have time to do for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Unfortunately, in this bill, we can see no jurisdiction in any ministry that particularly treats facing health, economic, social and any other consequences arising from the pandemic, which clearly leaves a deep mark on all aspects of life, and in the first place endangers the very lives of our citizens. Many lives were, unfortunately, even today, threatened. We've lost many lives. What is also threatened by both the pandemic and the policy of this regime is freedom in many its forms. With a few amendments, we will try to correct this bill on government. In this segment, we will also propose that the joint task of all ministries should be to consider the consequences of the pandemic within their work, and to propose, in accordance with their competences, measures to effectively eliminate or reduce harmful effects, to work on citizens' education and to take responsibility for the measures taken from their responsibilities. Gentlemen, parliament must not stick its head in the sand in a situation. He must answer the questions that plague our citizens today. In view of the aspects of citizens of the Bosniak and Albanian people, this government law does not provide any concrete solution to a number of accumulated problems facing Bosniaks and Albanians in Serbia. The announcement of the establishment of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights expected it to provide for effective mechanisms and concrete mechanisms to ensure, among other things, adequate representation of Bosniaks and Albanians in police, judiciary, prosecution and other state bodies with public powers. In particular, this must have been borne in mind by the fact that in all the European Commission's reports on Serbia's progress in European integration, this particular problem has been underlined, therefore - membership, i.e. representation of Bosniaks and Albanians in state bodies with public powers. This is particularly expressed in the cities of Sandzak and Presevo Valley. Since this ministry does not provide for such a mechanism, the question is why in concrete ministries – police, justice, is not the mechanism and is not the task that will deal with the establishment of a national structure of employees with the national population structure. However, these reasons do not end which is why we will not vote in favour of this law. If we look at this law from the corner of national councils, so the national councils of national minorities, we see that it is working on further degradation of these bodies of minority self-government and these institutions that represent almost a third of our country's citizens. I want to draw your attention, and also to get to know the public, that national councils, i.e. national councils, are elected in direct elections in the same way that MPs are elected in this House. The national council represents the highest representative bodies of the national communities living in this country. It is therefore totally unacceptable and unacceptable for us to treat these bodies in any other way to the authorities of the minority self-government. This bill, as I said, however, continues to be degraded and attempts to bring national councils down to the level of united citizens or NGOs and if, I repeat, national councils are elected in direct and free elections. Therefore, elections for national councils, as well as funding and work organisations of national councils must remain in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and therefore we have proposed an amendment by which this name of the ministry is changed and says it will be the Ministry of State Administration, Local and Minority Self-Government in the future. Other jobs such as the case so far may be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, since they were previously in the jurisdiction of the Office of Human and Minority Rights. We also suggested that the village ministry be attached to the Ministry for Family Care, Demography and Village Care due to its relativeness and, in the case of the minority, an identical description of the business. In this way, the ministry dealing with demographics will be able to systematically organise projects and measures to develop and improve demographic image both in cities and municipalities, and in villages and be a system solution. For these reasons, we will discuss details in the discussion of the details and proposals that we have presented further when we discuss the amendments. These are some of the biggest reasons why we will not support this government law, because we do not see this law before the future government putting in place tasks that should contribute to improving and improving the lives of citizens living in Sandzak, Presevo Valley, but also to Serbia as a whole and for this reason we will not, as I said, vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u108	Thank you. Representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Muamer Bačevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u109	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, the Honorable Chairman, above all, I would like to congratulate you on this appointment and wish that we do well in the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and continue our progress and our path towards the EU. There is no doubt that the two crucial problems Serbia faces today, above all, are the phenomenon of insufficient birth in Serbia and on the other hand, the eviction of people from our country. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia, the number of deaths has exceeded the number of newborns over the course of one year. On the other hand, the share of young people is increasing, or lower, and the share of older ones is growing in our population. The number of newborns in 2019 according to what the Bureau of Statistics published is 64,399 newborns, while the deceased were 101,458. So there's a negative growth and a practical loss of 37,059 people every year. In the modern world, it strives to increase fertility with positive, stimulating, with incentives, which is the only sustainable response to this really significant problem. Experts project that for a simple replacement of generations in Serbia, it is necessary that 11% of the total number of women born at the end of the reproductive period be those who have only one child, 44% be those with two, and 45% be those who have three live births. The results, with all the incentive measures, really take time, and that's the only thing experts agree on. In decades, only the assessment of those positive things and incentives that a country does is considered. The only bright spot in this problem is just mentioned in the Sandzak region, which, I must stress, with its cities like Novi Pazar and Tutin, is the youngest population and the youngest cities in Europe with a natural age of 14.6%, which is the most in Europe and indeed this great human resource is a huge treasure this country has in the valuable young, educated people that this country needs to employ and use in the right way. That is exactly what one of the political principles of the political party that I represent and which I am trying to achieve in this government and which we are solving step by step, which is the equal representation of Bosniaks, Albanians and other national minorities in the state institutions, and that is something that we are dealing with. We, gentlemen, as Parliament's Financial Support Act, have provided families with children with one of the most important stimulating measures a country can give to one family, which is a financial compensation where we have granted compensation for the first child of 240 thousand dinars or ten thousand per year for a third child, a million and 440,000 or 12,000 per month and for a fourth child two million and 160 thousand or 18 thousand per month, which we have to agree on are serious figures. It's with a guaranteed benefit for two-year-olds while they're on sick leave. Then, a one - time aid of 100,000 dinars in the birth of the first child, five thousand dinars that they receive for the purchase of equipment to the child as a cobweb, one of the largest kinds of aid a country gives to its inhabitants anywhere in the world on earth’s scale. In the 2007 programme, we in the SDP have stressed that we are actively committed to expanding child care and equal opportunities for each child, to provide full amount of net salary during pregnancy, to provide safe housing for young families, to create a support package for single parents, to provide victims of domestic violence and to develop a systemic response to this problem, to increase child support for a greater number of children, to speed up fostering children without parental ageing, etc. In our main political programme SDP as early as 2007, we have clearly outlined these goals and are insisting on them in our coalition and it seems to me that we have done a lot of this numbered and achieved. Of course, we must stress, we have done all of this with one good co-operation, sometimes the initiative of our largest coalition partner in the current government, the ruling government, so that the formation of a ministry that will take care of the family, demographics are seen as an exceptional continuation of a serious work that we need to continue and multiply. Trend of eviction from Serbia. It's a really big problem. Lately, by mass, it resembles the one from the 1990s, and then people from Serbia fled because of wars, sanctions, hyperinflation, international isolation from the country. Today, however, none of this exists, even more so, Serbia is a candidate for EU membership, Serbia is getting constant praise on economic stabilisation and economic reforms, but the emigration continues. The reasons why people leave Serbia, but I will say it is not only leaving Serbia, but all countries in the environment, many studies have been done and they have given us answers for reasons. However, some studies have even asked questions to people who are emigrants, our countrymen, and there are estimated to be six million from across the Balkans region, and they have also provided an answer, which is why they are more likely to be there than here. And that really points to solutions and what we need to do, how to create a policy to keep the population here and on the other hand, we manage to bring back those who have already left. I have to say that our immigrants, too, so to speak, the people who are on temporary duty, best to say, are a certain potential for our country. But surely there is also a great loss for what we are planning through reforms and strengthening our economy and all our sectors. The brain drain and trained labour cost Serbia 1.2 billion annually, meaning 1.2 billion dollars a year or 3% to 4% of the total gross national budget. I said, there is a similar situation in other countries, Croatia, Albania. In Romania, the situation is much worse, but unfortunately, we are approaching them. Fraptuous is the main cause of abandoning people from Serbia, where I must say that nearly one fifth of our population has said that it has a desire to go somewhere to live and work, and most of them say that the main reason is that they are practically out of work or have little to pay for their jobs. So the absolute economic causes, the desire for a better life, the desire for greater appreciation for your work, are the reason and I can say that it's absolutely legitimate. Frapantan is indeed a fact that 22% of Serbia's people show a desire to go or go abroad, which is in absolute numbers of millions or 200,000 people, and that's from all age groups. Even worse situation among young people, so somewhere between 19 and 29, those who want to do it, go away, is 34 and more percent of young people. However, in answer to the question why they left, our emigrants certainly see the solution, once again I say, the path that we need to form, our policy, of course, through this ministry, which I strongly, and my political group, I support, its establishment, and that is, our people there mostly say that they live there because of the better quality of life, better income, security, zero corruption, orderly system, value of knowledge and work, and, above all, certainty, I underline this word of certainty, which they have repeated many times, to plan their lives, to plan their future moves, meaning, awareness of their lives and plans is something that is extremely important to them. Our citizens who live abroad want certainty, that's what they want, of course, and our citizens who live here, to know that if they finish high school or are ceramics, they'll get so much pay, that if they finish law school, they'll get that kind of pay and be so valued, if they finish quality school, they'll get safe employment. That's what they insist on. Gentlemen, it means certainty, security and evaluation of work, and whether these are the basic postulates of SDPS Rasim Ljajic, is that not what we insist on all these years and through programming solutions, through programmes, through performances. It is something that is a solution, a real policy, a pragmatic policy, a policy of small steps in solving the big problems of our people, that is what our citizens want to see and that is what this government, I hope it will continue to do, and the previous two have been doing really well in the difficult times of the global crisis, now and the health crisis of Kovida, etc. We firmly support and promote these principles in our coalition. We focus our political activity on, I will say under quotes, a small man, to every man of our country, to those who are most, living from their honest work, from their wages. Our focus is them. Let me say, our focus is us. We insist and build policy towards them all these years and such an approach is imperative for us, and by voters, that is, I want to say another formulation, a policy that we often represent, a policy with zero population and zero nationalism. And we get the best confirmation from voters that we are on the right track, that we are doing it right, and that shows the first results of the Sandzak vote, where we are the strongest political party and where every time in the two largest cities and in other parts we get an absolute and absolute figure in support. Unlike competing local parties exploiting on the one hand national topics and opening unresolved status issues, on the one hand, or on the other hand, abuse traditional and religious institutions of Bosniaks, we win by real politics, by solving the daily difficult problems of our citizens. And it's a model of political action that we can only keep our citizens on our hearths and on our vats. With a lot of work and a lot of small steps, once again I say, get to the finish line, etc. I forgot to mention another piece of information, which is that, gentlemen, 85% of the people leaving our country are saying they are going to Western democracies, i.e. the EU and the United States, and only 2% are going to Russia. I'll say my Sandzaklias go 100% to Germany, and that's not a bad choice. I want to say that this particular insistence on the European path is something that we promote and what is the strongest cement and connections between SDPS, SNS and other political options that advocate the European path and something that I think are minorities and being, and I believe all social Democrats and all left-wing politicians of that direction, because Europe really gives a model of care, social protection and care for workers in the right way. Governments where we and our coalition partners participate in a stable and secure society in Serbia, insist on the rule of law, on a country of equal odds, and we have done a lot of work on economic stabilisation, but also on raising the quality of life. So most of the returnees in our country say that the overall quality of life, and that's a sufficient number of kindergartens, and we've built them a lot, a sufficient number of schools, quality education, quality of personal life, quality of personal life, daily, friendship, family relationships, that's something they don't have, and that's much better in the state of Serbia and that we have to support and work on and what we need to be a guideline for this ministry's work on family, children, demographics and which is very important for the ministry that we have. It is necessary to increase the motivation of young people to stay in Serbia, as migration will be increased when Serbia becomes a full member of the EU. I believe now is the right time to give people adequate reasons to stay. In Serbia there are, gentlemen, many things that can be upgraded, and one of them is the area of digitisation, an area where Serbia records the biggest economic growth and something to continue to insist on. What I'm trying to say is that we're going to warmly support the establishment of these three ministries. You know that Mr Ljajic was also the first Minister of Human and Minority Rights in that common state, so that for us he has particular importance to insist on the establishment of human rights, minority rights, gender equality and, above all, the social dialogue that will receive this new ministry as an additional topic. I must point out that human rights are much better, to say the state and to the exercise of human rights today and 20 or 30 years ago in Serbia on one completely different level, that today all of them, individually and national minorities and majority people, are really eating, I will say, all the things other peoples in Europe have in one modern world. There are little problems such as the unbalanced representation of minorities that need to be solved and installed. Once again I say, the end from which I come, which is too rich for young people, should be the treasure and treasure of this country. Gentlemen, the problem is that they're moving from Serbia, most of Serbia's most highly educated people. Fortunately, there are people from Sandzak who are currently workers who are perfecting their skills. Believe me, the entire construction industry in Germany is being held by people from my neighborhood, they're top construction workers. We need to meet the conditions for these people to come back here and speed up our construction industry. We do well in Belgrade, fantastically, but we should continue in other parts of our country. In any case, we should motivate our young people and this is the way and this is the way the future government should do it. In any case, we, Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic, will strongly support these new solutions and the future government. I thank you for your respect and your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u110	Thank you. The word is given by MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic, representative of the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P".
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u111	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning I would like to extend my congratulations to the newly elected leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, particularly President Ivica Dacic, the vice president, who has six, and the general secretary of the National Assembly. I wish them a successful session of the Assembly and all the assembly offices that are in charge of the president and vice president. Today when we talk about the Ministry Act. This law partially reorganises the current structure of the ministries, suggesting some gaps in the previous period and the need to introduce some new ministries. The establishment of three new ministries will help strengthen public administration capacity in these areas and improve the situation also in those areas. I will find it difficult to stay on these three ministries today, pointing to some good proposals that are framed in these ministries. Article 12. The bill provides for a ministry of human and minority rights and social dialogue. First of all, the position of the 2nd member will detail the general issues of the position of members of national minorities, although so far the Republic of Serbia has provided the highest standards in the area of national minorities. Article 3 provides for a more detailed arrangement of gender equality, anti-discrimination policy, as well as issues related to the improvement of gender equality. This ministry should pay particular attention to anti-discretion policy, because there are very sensitive groups of people, who suffer discrimination, primarily children, older people and marginal groups of the population. Article 4 defines the areas of the preparatory list governing the position of the association and other civil society organisations. When it comes to regulations governing the position of the association and other civil society organisations, I believe that one of the priorities of this ministry is to prepare a proposal on amendments to the Association Act, and in particular the amendment of Article 10, which defines that associations can establish at least three founders, which does not contribute to the representativeness of the association. The Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia, as a representative organisation that has about 650,000 members, has launched an initiative to amend the Association Law and this ministry should agree with representative associations, or the Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia, to amend and supplement the new Association Act. Article 20. The bill stipulates that the Ministry of Family Care, Demography, which would carry out the tasks of the state administration and relate to the system of family and legal protection, marriage, population policy, family planning, support and children, the improvement and development of demographic policy and the other issue. The establishment of this ministry raises strategic issues of interest to the state of Serbia. If we know that Serbia is losing one mediocre city with about 30,000 inhabitants all year round, then this is the right thing to finally pay attention to this problem. We talked about this problem all the time, and it was full of mouths, but in practice it wasn't exactly how we promoted it. I'll only list the city of Nis from which I come. The PUPS parliamentary group in the Niš City Assembly each year submits proposals for the development of the Niš budget, given that these are all real proposals, economically justified, and feasible, are partly embedded in the Niš city budget. Unfortunately, one proposal from the domain of this ministry, namely the domain of this ministry, is not accepted in Nis for years, which is a proposal to support birth and parenthood. In fact, the PUPS insists that the city of Nis has the same treatment for all pregnant women and maternity families in the territory of the town of Nis, i.e. that it pays monthly compensation of 10,000 dinars per month and for a period of one year. According to statistics, there are about 600 such cases, which would amount to about 72 million dinars per year, which is not a large spending on the city of Nis. Unfortunately, there has been no hearing from the proposal in the past years. Now the city of Nis, for the first time in its history, has a wife, namely for the mayor, Mrs Dragana Sotirovski was elected and we hope that this proposal will finally enter the city's budget, given that Dragana is a family woman. In 2016, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, acting Prime Minister, or Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, made decisions to remove the government's sessions from Belgrade and hold them in Nis, or as we would say, Nis. At that time, as the Regional Development Minister's task, some issues have been raised that have been difficult towards southeastern Serbia and in co-operation with the cabinet of the Minister for Regional Development, in co-operation with SANU, have been launched and implemented by projects to restore and revive the Serbian village. Finally, the proposal for a law on ministries also establishes a ministry of care for the village. Article 23 of the bill provides that the Ministry of Agriculture is to carry out tasks relating to the strategic view of the position of the village and the rural population, by proposing measures and activities to improve the conditions of life and work in the countryside, the cultivation of tradition and traditional lifestyle in the village and to preserve cultural and historical content of rural areas. Reorganisation of the current ministry structure and the establishment of this ministry is essential for the survival of the Serbian village, and thus the survival of Serbia, because we know that the Serb village has always fed Serbia in the most difficult cases. I'm going to present only a fraction of the data that points to the dreary image of the village and a full excuse for the establishment of such a single ministry. The data was processed by our famous publicist Milan Gulan. From this data, you will see that both the roles and the jobs of the village's ministry will be very large. The estimated population in Serbia in 2019 is around 6,945,235 people living in 2,487,886 households. The full structure of 51.3% is women and 48.7% are men. The population of the city is 2,914,990, which accounts for 40.5% of the population. This is a confirmation that this ministry is very important, because it has to take care of 40% of the population of the Republic of Serbia. In Serbia, more deaths each year than they were born, between 30,000 and 40,000 inhabitants. If this continues, Serbia will lose its residents in some future period. The situation in the villages. I'd like you to follow up on this information that's fraternizing. Of 4,709 villages, or villages, 1,200 are in the extinction phase. In 86% of the village, the number of inhabitants declines. In 1,034 villages are less than 100 inhabitants. There are fewer than 50 inhabitants in 550. In Serbia, as many as 73% of villages do not have a home of culture, which means that this ministry with the Ministry of Culture and Information must be in direct communication for security purposes. Older generations remember that earlier, Malten, in every village, there was a home of culture. In Serbia, about 50 empty settlements, while 85 more are less than ten residents. In a large number of settlements there are a large number of empty houses and a large number of empty houses. There's no elementary school in 230 villages. Even at 173 elementary schools in 2015, we had only one student. 500 villages lack asphalt roads and connections to the world. There are no shops in 400 villages in Serbia. There are no kindergartens in 2,760 villages. The Serbian village also characterizes an elderly population with 43.6 years of life depending on a city where it is 41.3 years old. In two-thirds of the village 2,140 there is no infirmary. Then we can see what the role of the Ministry of Health is to solve this problem with this ministry. The Republic of Serbia has 5,097,000 ha of agricultural land on its surface, with about four of which being processed, while over 840,000 ha of unprocessed and parched countries. The average size of the property is 4.5 ha, and the participation of livestock in total production is about 35%, unlike the world's data that is over 60%. A small number of cattle are grown in Serbia. As for the machinery, the mechanism owned by Serbian households or landholds is on average 20 to 25 years old. Although the water regime is very favourable in Serbia, only 3% is used in irrigation, approximately 100,000 ha of land, while the average in the world is 17%. Only 10% of the area and the property is secured. The pension fund only pays 155,000 and 720 farmers. At the beginning of 2000, over 500,000 farmers were paid into the Fund, and the average pension of agricultural pensioners is slightly above 10,000, which says it is very small and impossible to live with that figure. The question arises what awaits us in the future. If it continues like this and no concrete measures are taken through the ministry of a new village and through other ministries, it will be even more catastrophic. I will use some data processed by Prof. Dr. Subic, the years-long relationship co-operation in the previous four years of the government of the Republic of Serbia and SANU, the first of its kind in Serbia's new history, has already given two very significant and concrete effects. First, the cooperative reconstruction mission launched in 2017 by the Ministry of Regional Development cabinet in the Serbian government and is in charge of academics Vladan Skoric, president of the academic board for the village, exceeded all expectations. For the three unfulfilled years following, the spirit and faith in association were restored, with strong testimony that as many as 750 cooperatives were established in Serbia's territory. It is a piece of information for history and for the pride of all Serbia. The success of the "500 cooperatives in 500 villages" campaign has also contributed to the allocation of billion and 700 million dinar in cooperatives, which was money for basic herds, multi-annual plantings, equipment, machinery, and received a total of 152 newly founded or already existing cooperatives. Secondly, following years of warnings from the SANA Academy Committee that for decades villages have failed in Serbia, which almost no one respected properly, the cabinet of the regional development minister suggested, and academics Skoric accepted the establishment of a national team for Serbia's rebirth. The idea has come up with a huge interest, so today the team numbers 78 prominent public figures in the field of agriculture, agronomy, infrastructure, health care, education, culture, sports. Among them are 37 university professors, several department heads, directors of the institute, as well as famous directors, actors, poets, musicians whose roots are in the country. With his presence and open support at a constitutional session held on 13 June 2019, the creation of a programme for the rescue and rebirth of Serbia's villages, he strongly encouraged and supported the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. Support also came from his sanctity to the Patriarch of Serbian Irine, from the Mother of Serbia, the Association of Serbia, the Association of Vojvodina, and almost all relevant institutions dealing with the village. In the voting day, the PUPS parliamentary group will certainly support this law and especially vote in favour, with the need to thank those people who prepared the contents of the ministries for this decision. The national team for the rebirth of Serbia's village has formed a programme for the rebirth of Serbia's village. It was promoted in the Serbian Palace on 9 October 2020. The programme calls for action to stop the collapse of the Serbian village and protect Serbia's strategic interests, especially in border and mountainous mountain areas, from being hit by the country's destinies. A programme for the rebirth of Serbia's villages, as a supranational document of national importance, suggests concrete solutions, some of which, if observed, can have historical significance and can be based on a better way to change the country's attitude towards the village and thus the country's state. Among other things, it is proposed to establish a state fund for the development of rural infrastructure, in particular financial incentives for young couples, women and children living in the country, land concessions of up to 50 hectares on free use of young couples, to assign houses to those who want to live in the countryside and to process the country under the most favourable conditions, to reduce the value added tax rate for agricultural cooperatives and to fully release most of the taxes in border and mountain-mounted areas. The establishment of a national guarantee fund is also proposed to ensure minimum production prices for basic agricultural products, the establishment of a state agrarian development bank and the agricultural chamber of Serbia. The national programme for the rebirth of Serbia's villages is a comprehensive document that covers all areas of warfare, livestock, fruit growing, wine growing and other segments of agricultural production. Within the framework of the social standard, the programme deals with health, cultural in rural school, culture and sport. A new hope for people in the country gives rise to the fact that on an investment five-year plan for the future of our country's 2025 rebirth in Serbia, worth 14 billion euros, huge funds are planned for the reconstruction of regional, local roads, as well as for many villages in Serbia to get a sewer network and clean drinking water. It is a pledge and a promise from the president of the state, and all the village and people living in the country are delighted with such one support. More optimism was brought by the prime minister and prime minister's statement to form the future Serbian government, Ana Brnabic, who said at the ceremony that a national programme for Serbia's rebirth would be ahead in writing her economic exposé, at the presentation of a new government programme in Serbia. The programme is an invitation for action -- Serbian villages are waiting with full faith. As I have already said, in the voting day, PUPS will support this law and vote in favour. I thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u112	Thank you. You're right in two seconds, I was just about to hang up. Thank you. Elvira Kovac, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u113	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The SVM parliamentary group does not have a dilemma about the support of the SVM Bills because a new, including old ministries, existing ministries, we see as agreeing with the objectives of our policy which SVM has been in favour of over the past 26 years and which are consistently standing on three pillars. We stand for equality and non-discrimination. The Union of Duke Hungarians is performing, as you know, political representation of interest, first of all the duchy Hungarians and aphirms of minority self-government, promotion, protection and promotion of human and minority rights. We advocate the autonomy of Vojvodina and functional decentralisation for us an extremely important, wide network of public services on services available to citizens in as many populated places as possible to improve the quality of life of citizens, regardless of where they live. We are also in favour of strengthening family policies, protecting families with children, and an extremely significant stay in the homeland. The SVM Parliamentary Group welcomes the fact that the bill, as we heard it, educates three new ministries which represent the very essence of our policy, as I pointed out, puts it into power finally, meaning, not the service, not the office, but for these areas will be formed, as we see, by the special ministries which, you will agree, create, give even more political weight to these issues. Without the protection of minorities, there is no social stability, no dialogue. It is the social climate that enables and encourages dialogue and tolerance that is necessary for differences in one society to be a factor in not dividing, but for enriching that society. We are sure that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue will not only protect and improve the right to equality and non-discrimination, but will particularly respect the fact that minority communities need more than formal equality, minority communities need respect and recognition. Therefore, for the SVM and for our parliamentary group, the implementation of adopted laws is constantly working to improve the full application of the already existing legal framework. The importance of implementing a specific legislative framework, the existing, importance of implementation, as we call it, a minority action plan or a specific plan for national minorities, which will be revised by all plans during this next period as part of the action plan for Chapter 23 is important, the importance of this is also highlighted in the European Commission's latest report, which was published several weeks ago, more precisely on 6 October this year. So, the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress on the European integration processes says, stressing that the law must be seen, it must lead to visible progress in the effective exercise of the rights of members of national minorities. The European Commission's report further states that despite the legal obligation to keep an eye on the need to take into account the ethnic composition of the population, national minorities are, unfortunately, still under-represented in the public administration. We cannot argue that, in the past period, exceptional progress has been made on this issue precisely thanks to the joint work of the SVM parliamentary group and the previous government. In fact, the competent authorities have begun to collect data on the representation of members of national minorities in public services, which has actually become a legal obligation on the basis of the adopted amendments of our parliamentary group, first of all to the Employment Act, Autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, to the Law on Public Services, etc., which is not a minor fact, and that this is one of the measures that exists in the above mentioned special action plan for minorities, etc. "a minority action plan." Furthermore, as a letter, as a woman, I have to look back a little on women's questions when we talk about human rights. Unfortunately, all relevant reports, including the mentioned European Commission report, say there is a so-called The gender gap, the gender inequality in the field of employment and work and the pandemic of infectious disease Kovid 19 confirmed that women have carried out, in fact they bear a considerable burden of this crisis, that the pandemic affects those areas, professions in which women are dominant, and that the success of harmonising family and professional obligations, means family and career, is an extremely large challenge for women in Serbia. The resolution of these and similar problems, as well as the final adoption of gender equality laws, will certainly be one of the topics that will be dealt with by the future, especially the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. For the SVM parliamentary group, it is extremely important that I return to this ministry for just a second, which is the draft law, that the ministry will deal with the making of rules on human and minority rights and monitoring the compliance of domestic rules with international contracts and other international legal acts on human and minority rights, because this topic is being introduced as the responsibility of the ministry, in fact this means that national councils and all topics are moving on to this ministry, because this topic was formerly part of the responsibility of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government. Hope is the second new ministry of family care and demographics. I find it extremely important, since it is important to understand family support in a broader context, because family protection policy is an indication that other social areas of life are regulated. The ministry will, of course, cross various policies, social, tax, economic, health, agricultural policies, education policies, protection against discrimination, demographic policies. I have to mention that family care and financial support to families with children are extremely complex, and we know that a lot has been done in the past, and it has been mentioned a lot that we will change the law again. After two years of application, we also actively participated in the adoption of this law and praised that, for example, farmers, they were members or holders of agricultural holdings, but after two years of application, some discrepancies were seen, and perhaps discrimination of certain categories. I'd like to point to two topics right now. One concerns women members and farm owners. It's a good thing they're finally involved, and they have the right to compensation for maternity leave and leave due to child care under the existing law, but I hope this new ministry comes up with new changes as soon as possible, to equalise their rights and obligations with other users of these fees. Namely, they have to be secured for at least 24 months or two years, and with the other women it's 18 months, so they just have to be even. Secondly, if I can formulate, the discriminatory measure of this current law, which was pointed out by the Citizens' Protector himself, is that the right to profit during the absence of work for the child's special care cannot be achieved by parents if the right to help and care of another person has already been achieved. I think this needs to be fixed, too. We are here and expect good co-operation with the future new minister and this ministry. No less important third issue, or the third new ministry discussed here today, is also important for us, the village's care ministry. This theme, taking care of the village, is part of our programme and the policy we stand for, as I mentioned. It is generally known that a large part of the duchy population, including the duchy Hungarians, lives in the country. In Vojvodina there are 467 settlements, of these 467 settlements 52 are urban and 414 rural or mixed. We're all aware of that, and we know that everyone needs good access roads, arranged streets, traffic signalling, plumbing, sewerage network, ATMs, a number of doctors in all small country hospitals, pharmacies, notaries' offices and outcast judicial units. We all know that, unfortunately, I often go to a doctor or arrange any documentation with a public notary, notary, a review of the doctors of general practice sometimes takes away citizens, or residents of rural settlements all day and all afternoon. We should all, I say, provide these normal services, no matter where they live. We are paying special attention to the activities of the National Team for the Rebirth of the Village and appreciate the measures announced by the National Programme for the Revival of the Village of Serbia, including the formation of the State Fund for the Development of Agricultural Infrastructure and, as mentioned, the concession of up to 50 hectares of land owned by state to free use of young couples. We'll see how it comes to life in practice. I would take this opportunity, when I talk about the Ministry of Environmental Care, to appeal to a new, future formed ministry that, with financial incentives for young couples, women and children, help solve a problem which is multi-sectoral and which the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians has spoken of several times in this distinguished high House, but also in, so to speak in the background, thanks to our participation in the previous government. With the contribution of our Secretary of State, we are working, and this is a particular issue of pension-inhabited contributions, to pay for pension-inhabited insurance of agricultural producers. This issue is extremely important and important, however, it has not been resolved yet. It's a matter of paying their contributions. So it's mostly small agricultural producers. It is necessary to pay for the relative size of the land that they process and the incomes they make from agriculture, as well as extremely significant – the write-off of their debts and interest, because you will agree that it does not matter whether someone has half a hectare or 50 or 100 or 150 hectares of land. I know that, and what do I call it, the government in the technical system has been working on, that almost prepared proposals that are expected to be discussed in a few months, but I wanted to point out that we are here to co-operate and solve this problem, and I don't think we have any more time to postpone. It is expected of us, and we are here to represent the interests of all, including small agricultural producers. So, as I mentioned, to sum up, I am sure that in the future, as we have done in the past, we will successfully co-operate with the new government, ministers, solve the specific life problems of citizens, and hence there is no doubt that the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians in the voting day will support the draft law on ministries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u114	Thank you. Djordje Milicevic, head of the SPS parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u115	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Presidency, Mr Martinovic, given that you are a representative of the promoter, as well as Mr Odalovic, I will not say anything spectacularly new at first and I will not reveal any spectacular secret if I say that we are talking about two laws today – amending and supplementing the Ministry Act and amending and supplementing the Government Act. These are the laws that I am fully convinced, most changed in the history of the law in Serbia, for one simple reason because we have not had one system approach since the introduction of a multi-party system to date, a universal approach, a universal concept of one, an optimal model the government needs and what number of ministries within the government needs Serbia. Such standards, to be clear, do not exist in European countries either. Each state, according to its own needs, forms a government and the number of ministries within the government. So, say, in Norway, I think we had the Ministry of Oil, so the Ministry of Fisheries, in Germany, we had the Food Ministry, etc. When it comes to the proposals that we are talking about today, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government and Ministry, I would like to say that it was created as a result of a real need for the government to continue to function more effectively and better. First of all, the experience from the previous period, but also the real needs of citizens, the real needs of the state, society, and when you put it all on some kind of priority scale, then we can see and confirm that we are actually talking today about legal proposals that are guaranteed to go towards creation and orderly, better and more efficient states, and that certainly is the interest of all of us. Personal solutions are important, and we don't argue. It is important that quality people come to key places, capable people who will be able to organize a system that will work, which will deliver results, but this is not the topic of today’s assembly session. Today we are talking about creating a basis, creating a system that will allow the Government of the Republic of Serbia to produce results. Speaking of results, I would like to say on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that the results achieved during the previous period of time as someone who was part of the ruling coalition shared the value of responsibility in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we are proud of these results. When I say the results, I mean, of course, the strengthened and strengthened international reputation of Serbia, but I also think of everything that has been achieved on both national and national and economic terms. First of all, when we talk about economic indicators, no matter how much someone tries to criticise and no matter how much someone tries to criticise for criticism to come up with cheap political points, the facts are inexorable, the data is inexcusable and you can't challenge them. These results, I think, are going to the future government one good way and the direction that it can continue to work well, but on the other hand, we are talking and creating one basis today, too, for the better work of the future government, that the future government can realise the stated objectives and principles. Of course, I do not want to reconsider what will be contained in the exposé of the prime minister for the formation of the new government, but when I say the declared objectives and principles, I mean six principles and key points spoken by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, with whom we fully agree, and we are convinced that they will be content and will be part of the exposé of mandates for the composition of the new government. By supporting these legislative proposals that we are talking about today, we, in fact, want first to support everything that has been done in the previous period of time, but also to give unambiguous support in the work of the future government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, when it comes to reform processes, when it comes to modernisation, when it comes to changes, when it comes to investment, when it comes to development and when it comes to growth. Looking at this proposal, predictability can also be seen, and stability can be seen, but continuity can also be seen. For us, it is essentially well-organized within the government and well-organised structure of the work of ministries that will respond rationally, quality and effectively to what is essential, and these are the needs of the state and the needs of citizens. Looking at these proposals from this aspect, they are fully justified and deserve support, because they are rightly in favour of the needs of the state and the needs of the citizens. I think that today, actually, speaking about these legal proposals, and taking into account the kind of recession that I did at the beginning, I didn't have one universal approach and we didn't have one systematic approach from the introduction of a multi-party system, but I think today with this debate and these kind of proposals we're making one step in this sense and we're making an optimal model, a stable model that should and could be the basis for some future, future governments, and not that the Government Act always adapts to the current political moment, to coalition agreements or political trade. In this way, with today's debate, we show that we are becoming a serious and responsible state, a state that does not create its policy from today to tomorrow, but has one continuity. Of course, if these legal proposals were not a political declaration, but as I said, they were a result and a reflection of the real need, because if they were to talk about that political declaration, that's what I was talking about at the previous session, so SNS and Aleksandar Vucic were the absolute winners of the election, and they had no need to have coalition partners and talk to coalition partners. I am sorry that some have not understood, that they have tried to simplify these talks that have been conducted with potential coalition partners and with all the political options that have their own representatives in parliament, some have not even accepted the talks. I'm sorry that this is so, they didn't understand the seriousness and responsibility of the situation we are in, but these conversations that concern me, I'll repeat by who knows which time, the future of Serbia and the future of each Serbian citizen. What I am convinced will not happen in Serbia's political history, which is that the ministries are feudal. It is very important that we do not look at the proposals that we are discussing today with two aspects. From the point of view of personal solutions, because personal solutions today are not a topic, they are important, but today they are not a topic. And it's very important that we don't look at the number of ministries, because the hypothetical government can function with five or six ministries, but here is a fundamental question of what we really want and what kind of Serbia we want. Again on the other hand, 21 citizens have made it very clear in the elections, democratically saying what kind of Serbia they want, and we as responsible and serious politicians need to accept it and make a contribution to the realisation of these goals, and we are doing it today. What I also want to say is that very often it is heard in the public that some call the representatives of the political elite advocate some kind of dialogue, a dialogue that should go towards the reform of our political system. It is common knowledge that during the previous call, we have always been ready for dialogue. In the end, that dialogue came together, we talked to ourselves, we didn't have any conversation. But we're not running away from talking, we're discussing, but let's not think about changing depending on the political position we're in. Whether we are in the position of the government or we are in the position of the opposition and do not use the laws when we want to abuse a topic. Well, let's say in 2020, we remember election conditions that haven't changed since 2008. The only thing that changed in 2008 was the financing of political parties, but it was inevitable then, it was something that was necessary. Saving and rationalising at the state level was a priority and, of course, that as responsible and serious people we save first where there is, it was saved on political parties. Funding for political parties has been reduced, but has not been spared on citizens. I think it's a wise and rational decision. So this is where it's already been said, three things are crucial. We have three new ministries. First, the Ministry of Family Care and Demography is another indicator that the importance of family and demographic development of Serbia is even better recognised. Otherwise, we also raised the foundations of this issue during the formation of the previous government of the Republic of Serbia through the Ministry without portfolios. Today, with great pleasure through the ministry that will deal with this particular issue. The essence of everything is in the population, in a healthy nation, in its rejuvenation, because if there is no population, there is no development, no progress. We are unfortunately at the top of the country, with all due respect for the pensioners, don't get me wrong, but unfortunately we're at the top of the country by the age of the population. For a little while someone said, and she's absolutely right, every year, unfortunately because of the mortality in Serbia, one bigger city disappears. Social care for the family, which must be the primary cells of every healthy society, must be our country's strategic goal, because without a healthy family there is no healthy society. And, of course, that it is entirely justified to form such a ministry, a ministry that will deal with this very issue. The second new ministry and another new resort is dedicated to the village, the second weak spot on which every society's life depends. The village was preserved and the village fed Serbia when it was most difficult, at the most difficult times. I will remind you, during the Corona period, we were able to rely with certainty on only two things – our traditional friendship with traditionally friendly states and our own sources. And what are our own sources other than the village, healthy food and products – cheese, milk and crumbs, Mr. Markovic, you are right. Despite the many stimulating measures that have been given in recent years, the situation has improved, and I do not want to criticise the Minister of Agriculture, but rather, I would like to commend the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Mr Nedimovic in the previous period of time, which has contributed greatly to the improvement of the situation in the country, but we consider it a good decision to give the village new incentives, new stimulating injections to bring it back to life. Many will return to live in the village and produce food. We just heard statistics and data. I like to watch statistics, I like to read it, but I prefer the practical performance that results. Mr. Markovic doesn't want to praise himself, but here, I'll take the opportunity. In addition to commending the Minister of Agriculture, who did a great job, Mr. Markovic, for example, for 15 years in Jagodina has made it possible for every agricultural producer to use the gigs free at the market. Mr. Markovic has made it possible in Jagodina that every village has a home of culture, that it has a road, that it has water, electricity supply, gas in the country. So all that's necessary for people to have the opportunity to survive in the country. I agree with the statistical data, but somehow, when we talk about this statistical data, we're criticizing the Ministry of Agriculture, and I wouldn't want that. I would like to commend the Minister of Agriculture, but I would like to say that in which direction it is practical to act – as Mr Markovic did in the previous period of time. The third largest ministry, which is also of great importance and importance, however much some have tried to minimise the importance of this ministry, is the Ministry of Human Rights and Dialogue. We had our chance, quite accidentally a few days ago, I had a chance to watch a debate, where they said this was a typical marketing trick and that we needed to explain to ourselves what dialogue was. So, a typical marketing trick, and we formed an official ministry. On the other hand, we need to explain the dialogue to ourselves, and we know what the dialogue is. We also conducted dialogue during the previous period of time. We are still leading the dialogue in parliament today, on extremely important issues. So it's not about us, it's about those who don't want to understand it or can't understand it. But I'm not getting into it. The best answer to the question when it comes to forming a ministry like this, I think, was given by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, when he said that permanent dialogue is necessary at all levels, especially because the forces that are against, say, vaccinations, which think the country is a flat panel, I will try to quote it, and support anti-migration policy, have strengthened by as much as 250%, believe it or not. That's just enough reason for us to form a ministry that will deal with these issues. At the very end, Mr Martinovic, the SPS parliamentary group, of course, will support both legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u116	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to give you a brief welcome in your first address in this assembly, to congratulate you on your winning mandates and the opportunity to carry out the important and responsible duties of the Members of Parliament. I would especially like to thank my SNS, the Legislative Group "Alexandar Vukic – for our children", which I belong to, at the given confidence that in this mandate I represent in this way, and certainly to all the other parliamentary groups that supported this proposal, as well as the elected Assembly leadership, and I want for all of us, above all, a good success during the work in this mandate, that we jointly and in a successful way we realise the six fundamental rights of state policy as defined by the President of the State, Aleksandar Vukic, and who has strongly supported this National Assembly in our previous session. We expect good results on this plan also from the Serbian government, which we will soon choose, but I am absolutely sure that we will all make our people proud of our National Assembly together and that we all make a maximum contribution to the development of the most valuable we all have, which is our Serbia. Thank you again. The word now has the authorised representative of the parliamentary group “Alexandar Vukic – for our children” Sandra Bozic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u117	Thank you, Vice President. Let me, on behalf of the Members of the SNS Group, once again give you my congratulations on the chosen function and wish you a lot of success in your work and, of course, the entire leadership of the Assembly. I am quite sure that you will perform this function with honor, honesty and very professionalness, as you have also performed the post of deputy head of the parliamentary group and your parliamentary function. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today's proposal for a law on ministries will round up a formal step that is necessary to elect a new Government of the Republic of Serbia in this House next week. The proposed law carries out a partial reorganisation, already existing 18 ministries that still exist and are added to the old law, as we have had the opportunity to hear today three new ministries: the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, the Ministry of Family and Demography and the Ministry of Agriculture. The Serbian Progressive Party led by the president of the Serbian Progressive Party and Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, received indeed one huge support in June's elections and raised every possible scale of parliamentary democracy very high. However, regardless of the very high support of citizens and trust, it may even be incredible to say at this point in view of a public opinion survey if parliamentary elections were held today again, Serbia's advance would surely have won 180 seats on its own in parliament. So, just when you think that this support is at a maximum level, you are really surprised that you expect even more trust from citizens, an even stronger response, but it is absolutely binding in every sense both the Serbian Progressive Party and the President of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, but also the future Government and the Prime Minister that in the best possible way to respond and that, of course, everything that awaits us in the future, and we have talked about it in parliament, and I will agree with my colleague Vladimir Djukanovic in the previous address that we did not pay enough attention to those principles that Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic spoke about and which were concluded at the presidency of the Serbian Progressive Party, which is those six principles that we expect to have in the future next week. So the trust that citizens give you in this way means that they give you and hand over their future and their children in their hands, and you really have one huge responsibility there. Of course, we've already made a difference between everyone else and us, that we've made a difference when the government is concerned, of course, and the formation of the government, but also all other areas of social life and political life, in which we've worked in previous years. When I say they made a difference, I'm just thinking that some of them in previous periods have been putting the government together in foreign embassies and putting it together, practically, by their own personal ambitions and their own personal appetites. So that's what you've never seen in SNS, nor will you now. We did not really respect personal and particular interests, even when it comes to those in our ranks. So, always and only care about the citizens is and will stay and be first. The future government, which I say again next week will be here in this hall chosen, indeed has very challenging goals ahead of it. So it will be extremely effective and it will have to be formed for the difficult and crisis times ahead. Unfortunately, at a time when the world is struggling with the coronary virus and when, in parallel, in addition to the health crisis, we have an economic crisis, we can talk here today about the good results that Serbia has had in all fields, especially when we are talking about fighting a health crisis, that is, the part of the crisis that is part of the global crisis, which, in the end, has also caused a health crisis. So the essence of what will be the work of the future government is serious challenges. Forgive me if I will use perhaps safe expressions, which are challenges, risks and threats, because what the world and humanity are facing today can indeed be said freely that there is still a challenge in Serbia. But in certain parts of the world, it is a security threat, because when you talk about people's health, really when it comes to a pandemic like this, probably in some, let's say, the near past we haven't had a chance to see, nor in this way we face a pandemic, you can say freely that it's a threat. We have seen that the threat to both the economy and all other aspects of social life. So these reasons why this government was formed in this way, with 21 ministries and, I say, formed for responding and giving rapid solutions precisely to the challenges that are ahead of us, are formulated to respond first, among other things, and to the six challenges that we have talked about in the National Assembly and we are not sufficiently, it seems to me, discussed and not sufficiently talked about in the media. We here, of course, know what these goals are and what six principles are and what principles are actually waiting for the next government. But the most important thing is to introduce the citizens to these principles, to know, practically, what will be the tasks of the future government and to say it unequivocally at this point. So, in addition to fighting for health care, or for the health of our people, against the pandemic in which the whole world is currently in place, I really can't say at this point that even for this fight, the successful fight with the Kovid 19 virus is actually due to citizens. Why? The citizens are well-deserved, above all, because in the previous period, when they were all skeptical, we had the opportunity to have one part of the citizens, especially thanks to our pensioners, when they were in a period of fiscal consolidation, which was really difficult but necessary, in order to bring the country to what we have today, that we could lower our economic successes and make progress and build our Serbia, but the difficult measures were necessary, which we met, for which, of course, many were skeptical and we were attacked, turned out to be right and it was actually the citizens who recognized the need to support these measures. It is precisely thanks to such measures and, of course, to the wise investment and thinking of the previous government, which has invested in health care, which has invested in the health system, health equipment, construction and reconstruction of hospitals, health homes, clinical centres, and we have come to this day, when we have really predicted, that in time we prepare ourselves as to the corona of the virus and the special hospital we are building which will receive exclusively and only suffer from Kovid 19. So, all these thoughts previous and, let me say, wisely available to the state budget have made it possible for us, in fact, to have in the past seven months really and exclusively timely reactions to the health crisis that has hit the whole world, including Serbia. So we have managed to respond to all the health challenges set before us. We have also managed that, regardless of the economy as a place where it all starts and where it all ends, in the world it really comes into a serious crisis, the downfalls have been recorded in almost every country of Europe and the world, and in some high percentages, up to even 15%, which is really one minimum for the next period, we have come into a situation where we can respect that while we are struggling with pandemic, while we are struggling with a complex problem and one can say free and phenomena in today, we have not in any way neglected, nor given up at all, but we seem to be able to help our population and to show that, besides healthcare, we have really thought in parallel and above all about protecting our economic system, protecting every job and helping our citizens, so what is individual help. Remember the help we have provided our citizens with a 100-euro payment to every full-time citizen, to help small, micro and medium-sized enterprises in these times when we have really just met with the pandemic and when it was necessary to make very clear and very precise moves and directly help our businesses. So we managed to make the wheel and the momentum, which was launched in Serbia, progress in development, investment and further progress of Serbia, really continue to spin strongly. For this, we also need new people, because this very support, which the citizens have given us in the previous election period, tells us that we have to think about ourselves, that we have to change, that we have to adapt, and that we have to constantly look for new correct solutions, new energy, new people that would have to think about ourselves, that we have to keep pushing further, and that we have to provide our citizens with spot solutions, that they may even give some new ideas, of course, in order to continue to build, to continue to continue, and this support of citizens is in no way random, because the citizens are assessing what they see and the way they live and the honest struggle for the economy, and as strong as for human health is necessary at this point, and certainly that we are witnessing that Serbia has managed to make all those promises that it is going to be in front of the new government of 2020, that we are increasing the new infrastructure, where we are going to be able to build up, and the new jobs, so that we'll be able to move on the roads, and to move to move to move to move to move to make new jobs. I am absolutely sure that, regardless of what I say, and the economic crisis, given that we have come from the last place to the first place in Europe by all economic parameters, that we will be in a position to keep this promise to the citizens, as we have each other. As early as the following year, early 2021, in the first quarter, we can expect citizens to raise salaries and pensions. We still don't know what percentages that will be, but certainly, unlike some others, who have actually used that trust exclusively as a one-way ticket to 619 million personal benefits, we really see that we provide citizens with a decent life, that everything we promised through elections, everything we made as an election promise, and we keep it. By the end of the year, we will see that Serbia is likely to remain at that zero growth rate, according to what is predicted. So we won't have a practical recession involving all mankind, so Europe and the world. I say, in addition to these certain objectives, we are clear that we must continue a permanent fight for our interests, for the interests of our citizens, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, this will also be a difficult commitment and task of the new government of Serbia, as it will be a task to ensure in our external relations and security and internal peace that we did not have the opportunity to in some previous times, while certain structures had the responsibility or, let me say, it would be more correct to exercise responsibility for the exercise of power, so we also, during the course of the previous government, had the opportunity to have exactly issues related to Kosovo and Metohija not to say, because this is a problem that has gone deeper into our past, but definitely that Serbia's national interests since 2008, so we really see in a hostage relationship that is inadmissible for further development. We will try to find the issue and solutions concerning Kosovo and Metohija and that these negotiations and talks will never be easy, but we will try to have them and we will try to represent the interests of our citizens and the national interests of the Republic of Serbia. As for the independent conduct of foreign policy, which is also listed as one of the priorities and objectives of the future government, I really don't doubt it will, because Serbia today has proved very clearly that it is able to walk in all meridians, that it can clearly talk to the East and the West, that it is a happily seen guest and, of course, in all the major centres of power and decision-making, but also that Serbia will never again be a hostage of other people's interests, that governments will not be formed by foreign embassies, by foreign mercenaries and domestic traitors. So, all that has been given in the task of the new government of Serbia, I am truly quite sure that it will be as it has been, no matter what I say, a high scale raised in all aspects that the new government of Serbia will wait for, and that indeed that scale may be raised to another, I am sure, for SNS a high height. I have one more thing to mention, I really wanted to do at the beginning of this place, I have a real commitment and a pleasure to thank the Serbian President, Aleksandr Vukic, for the possibility and initiative and the request that he made to the president, or the prime minister of the future government, future Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and that is 50% for the participation of women in the future government. I think it is one of the precedents that has just been made when the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power, since indeed participating in all international and domestic forums concerning gender equality and the position of women in politics, we are always very proud of the results that have been achieved both in the legislative and executive authorities, but we have always had one, to say the dose "but", precisely when it comes to executive authority because we did not have enough women who have participated there. I think that his initiative, certainly with the support that has had a great impact on the next list, i.e. the new list that we had in the June elections and thanks to which 40% of women are sitting in this parliament today, and on their behalf and in their name I really want to thank again for their support that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is providing to his colleagues, but not just to his colleagues, but to all women who are participating in politics in Serbia. Also, of course, by doing so and the greater visibility of women in politics, we are really affecting the life of every woman in Serbia, and it is very important at this moment, although I am indeed a supporter personally that people put themselves on certain functions by their abilities, by their education and exclusively by that, I am quite sure that now more than before, the time has come for women to participate in power, especially in executive power more than ever, since I am quite sure that we now have a political scene of Serbia of many high-quality women, many capable, educated women who have something to enlist in executive power and have the energy they can give, which can really affect some important decisions. So, that's what I really wanted to do in a very special way. To continue with the goals ahead of the new government and the new challenges they will face. Certainly, these three ministries we are talking about will face exactly the same challenges and are not accidentally proposed for formation. One of these ministries is the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. So far, we've had, of course, a human and minority rights office, and I can't say that I've had a problem with the work of the office, but I'm sure that the ministry will be able to look at the whole situation more widely and that in some future time it really sets some goals that will be achieved in this period that we have given government and executed. By the fact that this extension social dialogue, which is part of the name of the future, of course, and the work of the future ministry, is certainly something that the SNS has done since 2012 and has so far been apostrophe in all organisations. So dialogue, dialogue and dialogue, talks with everyone, talks with all political actors, talks with all social groups, with the civil sector, talks in parliament, talks in the government and talks, therefore, in every state institution. The conversation must be permanent and must concern absolutely everyone, regardless of what this is likely to be, in these sentences will be found, I guess those to whom this least applies, those who hid behind the word "boycott" and who hid their political impotence behind this word, which now, after the election ended, were, of course, the loudest and most courageous, in order that, after the first importance of the re-election, we would indeed again encounter any excuses. However, this all applies to them to the least, although it applies to them, but also to other political groups, social organisations that have indeed received great support from citizens in the last period, surprisingly, since indeed I, at least I cannot personally understand certain ideas of these political and social movements of the type that the country is round and people who are against some established social norms such as vaccination. This shows that given that they have certain support from citizens who have jumped that we really need to pay attention to what we do not understand and that this dialogue must be present and that it must be really in every segment of our society and that we must ultimately sit down with everyone and talk to all institutions and try to find certain solutions and understand all those who are authorities and address each other. The second ministry to be planned for is the Ministry of Family and Demography. It is truly commendable that the SNS, or the future government, has given and apostrophe to the basic cell of a society, is a family and that new legal solutions will be able to make quite certain solutions concerning family protection, of course and demographics as a basic goal, i.e. a problem, an existential problem that has been in the Serbian people for tens of years and requires really one clear, very clear solution. Since I have a little more time, I really can't help but focus on this new ministry that's really an epochal thing for me, the Ministry of Agriculture. I can say that it is only a fulfillment of the pre-election promise made by the SNS during the previous period, as regards decentralisation and even development of all regions, including cities and villages. So, we must, as we said in the campaign, pay attention, because Serbia is not only Belgrade, Serbia is not just Novi Sad and Nis, Serbia is exactly the small villages it has, I will now tell you exactly, 4,709 in which it lives slightly less than three million inhabitants. So what is a catastrophic data is that 1,200 villages are now disappearing. Many colleagues before me have talked and talked on the subject and there are many problems this ministry will be waiting for at the beginning, but it is good to recognise that there are problems and that there is a need for urgent resolution. So I hope that this ministry will give one of the most visible results in the future, and I think it is extremely important to show in this way how responsible we really are for every aspect and that everything we say does not really remain "a dead letter on paper", but, you see, it is also very important that it enters a serious realization of this with a serious thought. So supporting even development, building a strategic principle is exactly what's important for this ministry. As for this bill of law that lies before us today, I can only say that it is one responsible continuation of SNS policy, that we will give quite certain answers to all the challenges ahead of us and that we will also succeed in continuing this development that we have started and the progress of our Serbia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're moving on to the presentations by word applications. MP groups have submitted their applications and is the first Mr Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u119	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I speak on behalf of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the strongest Bosniak parties in Serbia. I would like to thank the citizens for the support they have given us in the previous elections, because we have the most of all Bosniak MPs and council members in the local congregations in Sandzak. We have before us the Ministry Act. What I want to point out is that this is a fundamentally good proposal. If we compare a government's choice to building a residential building or a house, then we can say that today we're talking about a foundation. It is therefore very important that this bill is content. And what makes me particularly happy is that we have one width that the promoter gave in the portfolios and depths, because the future government and future ministers will essentially be able to deal with the challenges facing our society. What I particularly want to point out is that what the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party said in the previous term, that the proposaler took into account that an important part of the Justice and Reconciliation Programme concerns exactly the new ministries that we have today. It is the ministry of care for the village, the ministry of human and minority rights and social dialogue and the ministry of care for family and demographics. Our party leader Muamer Zukorlic has repeatedly in all public talks, as well as the programme principles and acts of our party highlighted the importance of taking care of the village. Sandzak is a mountainous place. The Sandzak village is very deserted. And it's very important that the next government has a ministry to deal with this problem, because we can't talk about the rest of the young people in the country if they don't have roads, and the Sanjak village has no good roads. We don't have good electricity, we don't have hospitals. We really hope to work with the future minister in a constructive dialogue to resolve these injustices. What I also want to point out in particular is the demography of negative migration, negative growth, one of the perhaps greatest challenges facing our society. I am pleased that the promoter has decided to address this problem in terms of all communities, all citizens and citizens living in the Republic of Serbia. If we look at the municipalities of Sandzak, we will see that every city in Sandzak has direct bus lines to all European cities. It's a negative trend that we have to stop and in that field we have to do really everybody. We have negative migrations from the village to the city, from the city to Belgrade, from Belgrade to abroad or directly from smaller areas abroad. Not one ministry can, of course, be fully aware of that. Here both parliament and the future government must deal with this problem. The essence of solving this problem is in a balanced regional development. The moment we continue to build a highway through Sandzak, when the Sandzak municipalities get gas, when we gasse, when we have a Sandzak airport and a railway to Novi Pazar, then in that part of Serbia we can talk about the crucial halting of these negative tendencies. Human and minority rights and social dialogue are a very important topic. I'm glad the promoter treated this as a special ministry. We're like a society divided both ethnically and ideologically and generationally. It is very important that we have one institution that will systematically combat all these challenges. The way it should not be done is the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights in its term from 2008 to 2011, when the minister was Svetozar Ciplic and the representatives of my Bosniak people called a special and obstructed construction of the Bosniak National Council. Since my time is running out, this is one quality proposal and I expect to support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u120	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u121	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I will not vote in favour of this bill and I will not support it. It's not just because I'm an opposition MP, it's because there's no diaspora ministry here. But let's relax our communication, show that political opponents don't always have to be against it. First of all, I would like to commend that you have put the Ministry of Family Care and Demography and the Ministry of Agriculture in this proposal. I think that's a good way to go. However, even though you have been in power for eight years, our families are falling apart. Statistical data is very difficult. Our village is dying. So these two ministries will be just making up dead people, if they only keep on having these ministries. What you're explaining in art. 20 and 23, i.e. Not in reason, but in law itself, it's so much to talk about that it's actually just a product of coalition agreement and some coalition architecture. The real story of the struggle to rebuild the village and rebuild our families and prevent demographic disaster or, as the people say, the white plague in which we drown is one of the roots of the change of society in which we live. You've had a chance to show that you want to for the past eight years, and you haven't. So we can't live in one model of a radical consumer society of brutal colonialism that has all the most radical forms of destroying our society, which we support by welcoming every foreign investor as a slave owner who can do whatever he wants with our labour force and we can't develop that model of society, and we're talking about taking care of family and village. The way things change is to advocate a family model of society, which in many respects will show everything the opposite of what we have today, and I will only tell you one example. While we're talking right now, there's some young woman in one of these foreign investors' companies who can't get a job because she's not ready to give birth. And we all know that the inspection of work in that company will not enter, and we all know well that there are many foreign investors companies that we welcome with red carpets, which neither masks nor protective equipment provide for our employees, who are family people and who are thus humiliated and thus show them that between a foreign investor and our man who needs to create a family, our man who needs to stay in the Serbian village, we have identified ourselves as a foreign investor. So, in that sense, my dear friends from the SNS and other ruling parties, you've been in power for eight years, and you haven't changed that, and this ministry won't mean anything without it. The other thing I want to say and I hope you forgot, I just can't figure out how you could forget the diaspora ministry, but I want to think you forgot, because if you haven't forgotten, then it means you put your party and political interest ahead of this people's interests. We are a nation, one of the few people in the world who has such a big distraction and such a great diaspora, that it is simply abnormal that we do not have an institutional framework for communication with that part of our people. At this point, he was receiving signals from that diaspora. Billions of euros or dollars are about what are coming and that allow this country and this people to survive in difficult times. In case you have a globalized world, when you have the ability to communicate in the most modern ways with all the people who have gone, we may not be able to stop them from leaving, because we don't have enough money to pay the biggest experts to stay in the country, but if we don't have the diaspora ministry, if we don't have an institutional framework through which we will communicate with them, we permanently lose them from our social and national beings. Of course, I'm not someone who doesn't notice that the president of your party, and the president of our country, has recently taken good steps to support our fellow Americans who are not within the borders of our country, and that's good. The idea of a Serbian world is a modern, normal and good idea, but it is not good that it depends on the will of a man, on his health newsletter, on whether this or the other morning will rise on his left or right leg, but must depend on an institution called the diaspora ministry. The diaspora ministry in these circumstances must be a modern, strategic ministry that will allow our people to have communication to survive everywhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u122	Thank you. The floor is represented by a national MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to refer to several qualifications presented by my esteemed colleague of the previous speaker, which I cannot agree with as an authorised representative of the MPs who tabled this bill. First of all, I'm a little surprised by the vocabulary you're using. It is a vocabulary of the Communist Party, i.e. Cominterne, colonialism, large capital, etc. It's a language spoken 50, 70 or 80 years ago. Since you're coming from the right political spectrum, I'm surprised you're using this communicative terminology, but it's your right and it's not the most important thing that we're going to do. You say that the state and, in particular, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic did not care enough about the family, that our families, and especially our women, our mother, were exposed to tortures in foreign companies that started working in the Republic of Serbia, especially in the period from 2014 to today, and that you forget, that is, how many families today live in Serbia because we managed to bring these companies to Serbia and how did these families live when these companies in Serbia were not? In doing so, Alexander Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, we did not talk about it as some who were in power until 2012, but we ran such a policy, which is a policy of even regional development. The Prime Minister also today, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, took care and lead today to open factories, not only in Belgrade, not only in Nis, not only in Kragujevac, but literally from Sudotica to Vranja, from Loznica to Negotina, to open factories in Kosovo and Metohija, to open factories even in Republika Srpska, i.e. in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or in the parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which the Serbian people live. Have you ever wondered how these families would live if it weren't for those companies? You have presented here several qualifications that we have previously heard from DS MPs in order to humiliate the results achieved by the Government, led by Aleksandar Vukic, in order to deny all the results we have achieved in attracting both domestic and foreign investments in the past, above all, six years. They talked about how workers in these companies work in diapers, that they have no right to pause, that they are exposed to various types of torture, and one MP from the DS, I think, was called Balša Bozovic, claimed that a Chinese company, which started working in Obrenovac, is "Meita", whether so, Mr. Komlenski, treats Serbian workers as slaves and that the Chinese in Serbia are slave owners. I strongly advise you to stay away from that termology. It's the termology of those who have failed politically. So, not that they failed in the elections, but they fled the political scene of Serbia because they convinced Serbian citizens not to see what really exists. Vukic opens one factory, and they say – it's nothing, it's ten, it's nothing, it's 150, it's nothing. We say -- people, we've hired hundreds of thousands of people, we've built hundreds of miles of highways, we've built new schools, we've built hospitals. On the other hand, we were convinced that it wasn't true, that we didn't see well, that the Wolf was lying to us, that everyone was lying. Serbian citizens understand well whether there is a factory in their town or not. The citizens of Serbia know well, we can all say that no factory has been built and that nothing has been done well since the SNS is in power, but the people see and the people understand that the movement still has a people in Serbia hard to live on. I'm not someone who's idealistic and who's going to say now that we're in power, the people live great. The people still live quite hard, but the objective people live much better than during those who were in power until 2012. You can see the shift in all spheres of social life. It's not the same thing when you don't have a single factory in one town, so in three or four years, there are six. It's not the same. It's not the same thing when these people who work in these companies, and you were talking about, where imperialists came, some large capital, slave owners, etc., take home a salary of 50 or 60 thousand dinars, so if both husband and wife are employed in that factory, you'll admit it's not a very small amount, it's a living amount. I can't accept those qualifications there in some factory, but I won't tell you in which, in some town, but I won't tell you in which city, the worker is forced to work under humiliating conditions, he has to work with diapers, they haven't given him a protection mask, etc. We are the People's Messengers. We have a duty to present specific data. If there are such cases, please tell me which factory is it, which city is it in, so that the state authorities will ask them to respond. If you don't say that, then your discussion is extremely casual, and then you said something clean to throw yourself at a man who succeeded from Serbia who was a half-dead state, one of the ruins of the state, in every respect, and institutional, and economic and military, I mean the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, simply toss yourself with a stone and say, which is simple, but which, of course, is not true, that this man did nothing for Serbia. I think he's done a lot. The new Serbian government will have an obligation, and we insist on it from the SNS that it is the government of continuity. The government's personal composition is irrelevant, whether Janko or Marco will sit in the government. Not everyone can be ministers, but anyone who is the minister in this new government will have to lead the policy as outlined by Aleksandar Vukic when he first became Prime Minister, which is the accelerated reforms in all areas of social life, attracting investments, and domestic and foreign, opening new jobs, strengthening our military power, strengthening our international position, continuing to fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, or finding a compromise solution for a problem that has been affecting Serbia and the Serb people for more than 200 years, if not longer. You're saying there isn't a diaspora ministry. Formal-legislatively, it is true, but you did not say that within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there is a provision that there is a Directorate for Co-operation with Diaspora and Serbs in the region. So we went one step further than you suggest. So we make a difference between two categories, I ask the citizens to understand it, diaspora and Serbs in the region. The diaspora are those who live in America, it's those who live in Canada, Australia, Germany, France, some have left 100 years ago, some have left after World War II for political reasons, some have left during the 1960s and 1970s for economic reasons, some have left in the 1990s for the most different reasons, it's a diaspora, but we have predicted a state body that will deal with the position of Serbs in the region. It's very important for citizens to hear today. Who are the Serbs in the region? These are the parts of our people that are left to live in the former Yugoslav republics. Where is the most difficult position of the Serbian people today? We acknowledge that there are shifts but still Serbs are objectively hard to live on, although they are formally and legally equal with other citizens of those countries, but in reality their life is not quite easy, I think of Croatia, I mean that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina called the Federation of BiH, I mean Montenegro. It is a rather delicate position for the Serb people in northern Macedonia. So, Aleksandar Vukic again returned after a long number of years to the political interest in the position of the Serb people in Croatia, the position of the Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the position of the Serb people in Montenegro. Let me remind you, unlike Boris Tadic, who thought that the purpose of politics was to constantly apologize to someone, thinking that it would show how big a European is and how allegedly a citizen politician, Aleksandar Vukic, went the other way, through co-operation with the countries that occurred in the premises of the former Yugoslavia and he said – we Serbs made a whole series of mistakes during the 1990s, some of us committed crimes, but someone committed crimes against Serbs as well. So we're talking about one and the other, because by 2012, you had one red thread that crawled not only in the former Yugoslavia's areas, not only in international power centres, but also in Belgrade, Serbia, and that's a very dangerous thesis. She is represented today by individual political parties, represented by individual NGOs today, which is the the thesis officially represented by Croatia, which is also the thesis represented by temporary institutions in Pristina, which is the the thesis represented by Milo Djukanovic, but this is also the the thesis represented by Latina Perovic, which is that Serbia and Serbs are responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. Aleksandar Vucic said in Zagreb, when he visited Zagreb and after he went to visit Serbs in Korduna and Banija – not Serbia is responsible for the break-up of Yugoslavia, part of the responsibility is probably borne, but part of the responsibility is carried out by those who have broken off from Yugoslavia by violent armed means. He had the courage to say that in Zagreb, as he had enough humanity, enough of the Serbs within him to go to the Serbs living in Korduna and Banija and say – we are going to help you stay on your centuries-old hearths, to restore the churches that have been destroyed, some during World War II, some during the 1990s in Kordun and Bani, that you do not need to leave Croatia, but to stay on your centuries-old hearths. What did he say about BiH, that part of the Serb people living in BiH? We recognise BiH's territorial integrity, we recognise that BiH is a state, but we are looking for an equal position for the Serb people in BiH and we are asking that there be no reduction in the authority of Republika Srpska, that is, to be as defined by the Dayton Peace Agreement. So, the formula is very clear, a state with two entities and three constituent nations, one of which is a constituent people Serbian people. Special attention was paid by Aleksandar Vukic to Serbs living in the Federation of BiH. I'll remind you, he was in places that were Serbian-born Vuk Karadzic, so there was no Muslim and Croatian ear, but unfortunately in 1995 they were busy by the Croatian army. I mean Glamoch, I mean Graho's, I mean the woodwork. A factory in Drvar was opened, thanks primarily to funds provided by the Republic of Serbia. Well, isn't that what the Serbs in the region care about? Which Serbian president did this before Alexander Vukic? Be careful, those who came to power in 2000, who convinced us that we had not just entered the EU, that they could bring us into the EU, that some great money would come to Serbia only when they came to power. They closed factories in Serbia, didn't think to open factories in BiH, in those parts where the Serb people live. Aleksandar Vukic has shown that he can open factories in Serbia as well as open factories in BiH for Serbs living there, because what people in Drvar, Glamoc, in Grahovo who are unemployed. They'll pack up and leave. So it's cities, villages, municipalities that didn't belong to Republika Srpska, but it's the interest of the Serbian and Serbian people to stay there to live where they were born, and the man will live if he has anywhere to work, if he has something to feed himself and his family. It's very simple. As for Montenegro, Bosko Obradovic came in here at the end of last year with banners as we betrayed Serbs in Montenegro, as we sold saints in Montenegro, as Aleksandar Vucic has some business arrangements with Milo Djukanovic, so he will not react to what Milo Djukanovic is doing through the Law on Freedom of Religion in Montenegro and to the Serbian people living in Montenegro. Then it turns out after a little over half a year that the Mil Djukanovic regime has fallen. He fell essentially, though hard to admit, but his regime fell precisely thanks to the fact that Serbs in Montenegro, but also other Montenegrin citizens in Aleksandr Vukic recognized someone who brings peace and stability to this part of the region. What do you think we could do here in the National Assembly to pass a law with a benign name - the law of freedom of religion and then to persecute religious communities that do not please us. It is not our will that the Catholic Church, which strikes the Catholic Church, is not our will for Muslims, hits their religious communities. We could've done it, and if we did it, we didn't. Have we done everything in a way that no one in the International Community resents us getting involved in relations in another country, to help the Serbian people in Montenegro. And how we helped you, you're very well aware of that. The big question is whether people who were opposition to Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro by yesterday would have been in a position today to form a government if it hadn't been for the principle policy of Alexander Vukic, if it hadn't been for Alexander Vukic's willingness to go over one, not a simple thing, that the Montenegrin Amphilochy Metropolitan had read to him about a living man because he had signed, or participated in the conclusion of the Brussels Agreement in 2013. He gave his hand to the Metropolitan amphillochia, thus showing that the interest of the Serb people in Montenegro is much stronger than his personal vanity. It is also something that the Serbs in Montenegro understand very well. Then you have the wheezing of those who lost power in Montenegro, I followed their media, I followed the media in the region where they were visiting. They use the same communicative termology, except you use it in the economic part, and they use it in the political part. Milo Djukanovic says this on a TV in BiH -- Aleksandar Vukic advocates the creation of a big Serbia. In Serbia, there are some power centres that run major state policies. And then that classic repertoire we've been listening to since the late '80s. There is a joint venture to create a great Serbia. Who's part of that venture? Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Because wherever there is something cloudy, dirty, hostile, etc., there must be Alexander Vukic, but he says, there is also the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, there is SPC, there are many intellectuals from Serbia, and they all have some dark plan. That's what we've been hearing ever since the crisis started in the former Yugoslavia. All these people have some dark plan to create great Serbia and to make Montenegro a Serbian province. Alexander Vukic, absolutely, didn't react to it, and he could react. He said, "Let a man say what he wants, he's lost the election, he's probably a little depressed." What is important is that people living in Montenegro realized that in Aleksandr Vukic they have a reliable partner and reliable protection, most importantly, not to talk about Serbs at KIM. Tell me which Serbian politician other than Alexander Vukic the Serbs in KIM see as their leader. Me, you or some fifth, no, they see him. They called him a traitor because he signed the Brussels Agreement. But he had the courage to go among those Serbs living on KIM and explain to them how important it is that the Brussels Agreement was signed especially in that section concerning the formation of a Serb community. One more thing to tell you. How to show concern for Serbs in the region. I have to point that out because it seems to me that we've all forgotten it a little bit, and that's a very important topic. Alexander Vukic, of course, was not a simple decision, it is a difficult decision for someone who is the Prime Minister and for someone who is a Serb, who is of BiH origin. Aleksandar Vucic, as you remember well in 2015, once again for the sake of peace in the region, went to Potocara in Srebrenica in July 2015 for the reconciliation of Serbs and Bosniaks in BiH to bow to the seeds of the innocent killed Bosniaks in 1995. I don't want to talk about numbers, they're not the numbers at this point, but he went to honor the people who were innocently murdered. Was there a shooting of prisoners and civilians - yes. Aleksandar Vukic went on behalf of Serbian citizens to place a crown on the monument, which is to mention the markings of these victims. And what happened? In 2015, a man comes to a mission of peace, comes to a mission of reconciliation between Serbs and Bosniaks, comes to say terrible and terrible things happened in BiH, let us Serbs and you Bosniaks be smarter than we were, so that such things never happen to us again. They tried to kill him. Because what happened in Srebrenica in 2015 wasn't a lynch, it wasn't an insult, it wasn't a throwaway, it was an attempted murder. No president of the Republic in these areas has ever seen what happened to Alexander Vukic in Potocari in July 2015, when the man was tried to kill. Is that why he said - I'm not interested in BiH? No, I don't. How many times he talked to Bakir Izetbegovic and Dragan Covic, how many times he was in BiH, and how many times he called the people who lead BiH to come to Belgrade. There he showed concern for the Serbs in the region. Look, it's easy to be a Serb here in Belgrade, it's the easiest thing to do, but we have to make sure that we here in our statements, our behaviour doesn't worsen the difficult situation of Serbs living in Zagreb, Osijek, Vukovar, where today they break down tables with Cyrillic letters, Serbs in Split, Serbs in Mostar, Serbs in Cetinje, Serbs in Skopje, etc. So, as he showed concern, not only for the diaspora, but for the Serbs in the region and that care we will continue to show further. Some new countries have come into existence, it is a fact, and probably not in any nearby, or future, will not change, but the fact remains, although new states have come into existence, that despite many who believe there will never be again, that the Serbs today have in Croatia, that the Serbs today also have in the Federation of BiH, we are still holding and tough in the fight for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, we have improved to a significant extent the position of the Serb people in Montenegro, we are also taking care of Serbs who are left to live in northern Macedonia and ultimately, Mr Glisic, we wanted you to admit it or not, I know that many of them from opposition and many who are against Aleksandr Vukic and many who tell him that the traitor is not enough Serbs. But that is a fact, at least I think it is a fact, which is a Serb from Zagreb, a Serb from Banja Luka, a Serb from Mostar, a Serb from Cetinje, a Serb from Kosovo Mitrovica, a Serb from Skopje, as well as a Serb from Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac in Aleksandr Vukic sees his president. Look at someone with protection. Look at someone who won't cheat on him. He sees someone who won't betray him. See someone who'll help him build a new church, buy a new tractor, build a new school, open a factory. These are the huge successes we've achieved. We have shown that we can be a leader in the region, but with one wise and smart policy. We didn't fight anyone, we didn't threaten anyone, we did it. To go one step further than we talked about, but we managed to get from the countries that were our enemies until yesterday, which bombed us, to make us, not to say completely friends, because it's impossible for such a short period of time, but yet partners who began to understand that the Serb people at the premises of the former Yugoslavia also have some vital national interests. That's where I'm talking about Kim first. By 2012, the question of KIM was put ad act, solved, almost, you only have to admit KIM. Now, from many centres of power, both across the ocean and here in Europe, there are some slightly different voices. There's room for a compromise solution. So it's not all lost when it comes to Kim. It depends largely on the great powers, but it depends largely on us how wise and smart we are to ensure as much as possible at this time to ensure when it comes to KIM. Maximist policy is not possible, but it is not a good policy that we had until 2012 when Serbia's leadership at the time took care of the Serbs in KIM by banishing the Montenegrin and Macedonian ambassadors, because their countries recognised KIM, so many were great heroes, including Montenegro's ambassador, Anka Vojvodic, I think she called herself, and what Vojislav Kostunica hid somewhere, and Boris Tadic allegedly fled to an official visit to Romania. It was the reaction of the then state summit to the KIM declaration of independence. Then, as cream on the cake came the brilliant idea of Vuk Jeremic asking the International Court of Justice a question, is the declaration of KIM's declaration of independence contrary to international law? And he knew and there was his political sin, he knew that every judge of the international court of justice when he made a decision, the decision made not by his conscience and by his own personal legal conviction, but by his own government's policy. He could have calculated very simply that there is a majority of judges from countries who have recognised KIM's independence. In advance, it was known what decision would be made by the International Court of Justice, that the declaration of the declaration of independence of KIM is not contrary to international law. And now look, with so much weight on your back, Aleksandar Vukic enters the fight for Kosovo and Metohija and doesn't say - this fight is lost. He didn't lower his hands, he didn't take off his gloves, he continued to fight in impossible conditions. And is there a shift in that fight? There is. They told us -- no, it's over. All you have to do is recognize Kosovo and Metohija. So if it's over, what are you negotiating with us? What are the Americans coming in for? What comes Lajcak, what comes these people from the white world if it's all over? What are we negotiating? What are we talking about? So it's not all over. And if we're smart enough, we won't lose everything in Kosovo and Metohija. We can lose everything and we've been on the verge of losing everything, but if we're smart enough, if we keep running that policy that Alexander Vukic has led so far, we won't lose everything in Kosovo and Metohija. That's why everything you said, it seems to me that you said a little too hasty and you didn't make sure enough that the fight that's being fought for Kosovo and Metohija today is a thousand times harder than we've fought, say, in 1990, or 1992, or 1987, or a few years earlier. In 2020, in 2021 with so much weight on your back, you fight for Kosovo and Metohija, so it's the same thing if someone hangs a weight of 20 kilos for your feet and says, "Sprint with the world champion." You can hardly beat him. But Aleksandar Vukic has shown that he can also keep up with 20kg of weight with those who have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. So I understand your concern for Serbs living in the diaspora, for Serbs in the region, but simply because of Serbian citizens, it is not true that there is no state body that is not in charge of special care for Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region. It's a government that exists as a state body within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We, I said, will also say, that's what my colleague Aleksandra Christmas said, so will many SNS MPs, and today, the government of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, in us Members of the SNS, who were elected from the list "Alexander Vukic - To our children" will have an absolutely safe partner in the fight for those six declared goals, especially when it comes to fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. That fight's gonna be tough, it's already tough, it's gonna be hard. We also call on you who are in opposition to engage in this fight because the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is not a question of this or that party, it is not a personal question for Alexander Vukic, such as it is not a personal question for you or for me, it is a question of the entire Serbian people, and that is why we need absolute unity, we need a national consensus, and that is one of the reasons why we form the Ministry of Social Dialogue. We want to include everything in the fight for vital Serbian national and state interests. That's the reason and that's the answer to the question - why, Wolfie, did you take to the government coalition partners you don't need? Because we do not view power as prey, but as an instrument to solve accumulated social problems, which do not originate with Vukic, some come from 200 years ago, some from Josip Broz, some from Bozidar Djelic, some from Boris Tadic, but all of this fell on the back of Aleksandr Vukic. We want, therefore, that power to be an instrument for solving these problems and we want together with those who are with us in the coalition, but we also invite you who are in opposition to help in what is the achievement of the vital national and state interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. We can differ on many issues, but on these issues that we have defined as six basics we must not differ, because there is no future that society has no consensus on fundamental political, economic and national issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u124	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Right on line, two minutes, there's Mr. Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u125	Dear Mr. Martinovic, in the finale of this you know, we have long known each other, that you will have the support of me above all as a man for all that is in the state interest. But this exhibit of yours, I'm glad I gave you the opportunity to deal with Bosca Obradic, DS, Vuk Jeremic, I just don't know what that has to do with me. I'm also glad you had a chance to take out the panegiric Alexander Vukic for who knows which time. I said it was the president of your party, but that the president of the state whose I am a citizen and that for that reason I respect that institution. However, if you had listened a little better to what I said, you would have seen that at one point I said it was noticeable, and you can't expect the opposition MP to praise what was said more, that the president of Serbia has made efforts to have certain support in the region that did not exist before, and it is commendable and it is for support. But what I keep insisting on is that it can't be as important as supporting Serbs in the region and working with our diaspora to depend on one man's will, even if that man was such a gromat as Alexander Vukic. We have to have, I'm a little surprised, there's no applause when I say that Wolf is a gromada, we have to have a situation to have institutions that deal with it, whether there's one or another man at the head of those institutions. So that's what's essentially a grudge against the SNS and this government that turns into a personal regime all the time. I often say -- it's not a dictatorship, and it's not an authoritarian authority, because I know what dictatorship means, and I know what authoritarian authority means, but it is one personal authority that replaces institutions, and a man's name always appears where there should be an institution. Of course, anyone who knows how the state works knows that the ministry is a much more serious state body than some administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u126	The word is made by a representative of the promoter Aleksandar Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u127	There is no personal authority of Alexander Vucic, there is a president of the Republic who does his work in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with the Law on the President of the Republic. Otherwise, what you said about Bosko Obradovica, DS, so I have nothing to do with them, they were dealt with by the people. The people said everything about their politics. The Democratic Party no longer exists, not because of me, they decided to lock the door with themselves and turn off the light in that party, which was founded in 1919. What have I done here? Nothing. You're saying there's a personal authority. There is no personal authority, but the people recognize, the people recognize who works in his interest and who does not work in his interest. You can't fool that people. You don't have any media in our hands today. All media are in the hands of Dragan Gilas and those who support people who have called on Serbian citizens to boycott. Almost all the media are in their hands, directly or indirectly. So you can't have personal authority if you don't have media power. I guess that's what modern states mean. Tell me a medium that's in the hands of the SNS and specifically in the hands of Alexander Vukic. But there's something else that bothers you not only, it bothers many. Look out, you've got one paradox. They say - Vukic is a traitor, Vucic is a thief, Vucic is not to say what, and you saw in the election campaign, and before the election and now they say that, says Velja Ilic, and what is the name of Aleksandra Vukic on the list of committees in the City of Cačka Assembly, and what is the name of Aleksandra Vukic on the list of republican MPs? What's the matter with you? If he's a traitor, if he's a foreign mercenary, if he's a thief, then people won't vote for them, right? Who would vote for someone who's a declared traitor, who's a declared thief, who's gay, who doesn't know what anymore? Who would vote for a man like that? However, elections took place and kissing just voted for it. I know it bothers you. You're the only one who won't say it. No, it's popularity, it's a reputation that one man enjoys thanks to his work, first of all, and the results of his work. Not only did Vucic become the leader of not only Serbian citizens, but the Serbs in the region by declaring him a leader, but the objectively Serb people experience him in this way. There's nothing you can change, neither you nor I. Neither would I if I joined you. Go to Zagreb now, ask who is the only politician in Serbia who has infinite and absolute trust, they will only tell you one name. Go to Banja Luka, they'll tell you that name. Go to Montenegro, they'll tell you that name. For me, they don't know, for you, I suppose, either they don't, or they don't know many, for Alexander Wolfie, everyone knows. It has the eyes of the entire Serbian people because it has shown by its work that it can, first of all, raise from the ashes the ruined Serbian economy, that it can raise from the ashes an army that has been destroyed by the de facto and that it takes care and cares for Serbs who have remained to live in the former Yugoslav republics. So the people in it recognized the leader, recognized the leader, recognized someone who wouldn't cheat on him, who wouldn't lie to him, who wouldn't turn his back on him when he was having a hard time. In 2013, Alexander Vukic could only send Mark Djuric to Kosovo and Metohija, so Marko Djuric himself explained the advantages of the Brussels Agreement. No, he went to talk to those people himself. He could have sent someone to Zagreb, not to go and left. He could have sent someone to Srebrenica, and he didn't send anyone, but he left himself, and they tried to kill him. I am now asking a question here in the National Assembly - who are the people who tried 2015 to kill the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic? Do you ever wonder, and do you ever wonder, who every day spend 24 hours running an unwitting campaign against Alexander Vukic? If Aleksandar Vukic is indeed a traitor to Serbian national interests, if he is here, by some conspiracy theory, brought to power to betray everything that is Serbian, to sell Kosovo and Metohija, to sell Serbs in Montenegro, to sell to the Republic of Serbia, so how are his enemies trying to kill him? I'd welcome a man like that with flowers, I'd take him to lunch, I'd buy him a fancy car. It is the same as before, in its own time, there is a poem by Matija Bećkovic about Draža Mihajlovic. Imagine that traitor and ally of the occupier, he says, which did not descend below 1,000 feet [1,000 m] above sea level in four war years. What? Well, if you're a traitor, are you cooperating with the occupier? Sit down, brother, in Belgrade, and cooperate like a man. And I don't co-operate with the occupier, I crash into the mountains of Serbia, Bosnia and Montenegro, I eat fleas and eat lunch every other day. Now, that's your traitor and Alexander Vukitch. As we did in our day, as many great people in our history have unfortunately declared traitors, so is Alexander Vukic. He wants to sell everything, it's all sold out, it's all over, he's brought here to destroy everything that's Serbian, wherever he goes to the region, there's people looking down at him. When I listened to Milo Djukanovic the other day, I just couldn't believe it. As if he speaks Josip Broz, Vladimir Bakaric, Edward Cardellj, Tudjman – great Serbia, large-state projects, SANU memo, remains, says Chetnya... What else did he say, yes – SPC and always the same matrix. It's always the same matrix, and this matrix is going through today, just in the opposite direction. Vukic is a traitor, so Vukic works for American interests, Ma Vukic works for European interests, so Vukic works for this one, Vukic works for that one. We SNS MPs and the vast majority of Serbian citizens say no. Vukic works exclusively for Serbia and Vucic works exclusively for the Serb people. It is not an exponent of any foreign force, not from the West, not from the east, and we will continue to lead an independent policy, that Serbia be a completely independent state and that our policy, both internal and external, no one has any influence, except the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and except the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That, you'll agree, Mr. Glissic, is not a personal authority. It is the most democratic of all democratic authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u128	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. According to a statement, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u129	Thank God you gave me your word. Now, I have to say I despise that word - political correctness, for example, or when we have to talk about compromises and I don't know what. I'm not much of a compromise person, I have to say. I can't stand the compromise anything special, but, of course, it has to happen in politics, even when you're putting together a government, even if you have a vast majority like this. But especially because I despise the shelf is demagogy, and what we hear about Alexander Vukic's personal authority, and I don't know what it is, it's classic demagogy. You know, people who are, for example, here in Serbia, we have a huge number of people who, let's say, are so pro-Russian and then they're going to resent the personal authority of Alexander Vukic, but they would never say that Putinov's personal authority, for example, in Russia, and the fact is. Why? Because it's the leader the Russian people love. Or he will never, for example, condemn Orban who in some way, as a great leader, has the greatest influence in Hungary. Those who are, in turn, pro-Westernly-oriented will never condemn Macron, for example, who is essentially the front man, the leader of France. Or, say, Trampa. Come on, please, don't tell me that without him, you can, in some way, have something more significant to do with the U.S., even though they're trying. That's what you're so called, I have to say, in my opinion, disgusting, those extremely liberal circles that, I guess, they don't think there should be any system in any society, so we can allow anarchy. Then in the states, for example, where the Democrats are in power in America, the police can't react, you can attack the police, you have to shut down the shops, beat people up, if they don't think so. That's the democracy they'd bring us here. Why am I saying this? Because there's a great danger to this society here, and that's why this government has to face it. It doesn't seem important here anymore, it doesn't seem that in the world it doesn't matter how much support you have anymore, but it's important that you have two or three percent support, but that you have a media structure behind you, that you have money, and then it's allowed to destroy the system and destroy power. That's what's going to happen here. I now claim to you, here, believe it or not, this may seem paradoxical to you, when there are presidential elections, we will receive various demands, since we already have demands from those that no one lives in this society supports, but they already have demands for the next elections that they must be separated. If they're even separated, here, I'm telling you now, the next request will be that Vukic can't run in the presidential election. And certainly not on all the other lists should be, say, on the parliamentary list or on the local list, it must not be the name Alexander Vukic. Why? Well, because they know he's gonna beat them. Then they dissipate your demagogy, and otherwise it's not then during Tadic, because on every local list there was DS – Boris Tadic, but then it didn't bother you, and now it bothers if SNS stands or I don't know what – Aleksandar Vukic, because that name is Alexander Vukic winning everywhere. Now, let's get Alexander Wolfer out of the way. Well, remember what I told you in the presidential election, if he decides to run, he'll get a request that he can't run. It will go such a terrible pressure from those who have no support in this society, except that they have abnormal money, except they have scary media support. It will go such a rape to the public and this government must prepare itself for such challenges that will definitely be put before it. The key challenge of this government, which is of these six objectives that have been declared, alongside Kosovo and Metohija and certainly further economic progress, is the fight against crime. My people, if we don't deal with this, we're gonna get hurt. It's not just a street crime fight anymore, it's a serious battle with the parallel state structures that this crime supports, and they're in our society, they're in our institutions. They must be cleaned up first, but in order to do so, the first must be given the support of the judiciary, first of all, the Prosecutor's Office, I must admit, the cancer of the Serb society's wounds is the Serbian judiciary. It's a complete disaster. These prosecutors who do not support the fight against crime, we declare it for free, of which there will be nothing. You know, it's not normal for you to listen to stories of certain citizens being kidnapped here, of some getting their heads cut off. Who cuts their heads off in Serbia? Who takes people, how does someone disappear and you don't know where a man is? You know, if the president of the state has to ask that question, publicly, on a television show, if it replaces evidence in a particular court procedure, then the question is, what is it doing here? How come the D.A. doesn't complain about a verdict like that? Since we constantly have challenges here from the EU, because they are God's days, to tell us that it should be our judiciary, so they're constantly telling us that judges and prosecutors should choose themselves, that we don't have a relationship with them here. I'm sorry, I'm afraid there can be a serious alienation of that branch of government from the state and the people itself, and we have one complete chaos, one completely parallel state structure, that will truly destroy this society. I'm sorry, I'm a great opponent of the whole choice of judges, and I'm going to point that out all the time. Why? Because the only link of the people to the state is parliament. The people here transfer their sovereignty to us, if the court makes a decision on behalf of the people, then it is impossible for judges to fully choose themselves, but still, that parliament must participate. And, don't tell me about the independent judiciary, and I don't know what the good part of our justice is right now has anything to do with independence. It only has to do with them being gods in this society and having individual foreign embassies financing their seminars, which finance their travels, progress, etc., having an impact on this society, by controlling it through the judiciary. That's one reason why we're facing abnormal demands that you don't have in any other country. The fight against organised crime, I am glad that the president has declared it, must be such that we prepare ourselves as literally, to go to war, because it has taken a serious wave, and this society must be unique in this support of this fight. I can't wait for her to start, because we're gonna have some serious problems if she doesn't. What particularly irritates me in the whole government-assembled story, I've already mentioned this morning, and I'm going to point out right now, and that's what the media is exclusively writing about who's going to take which resistor. It's as if it's very important, as if it matters which party will be in some vault. I guess it's important what that minister can do, and that's the first thing we have to ask as a question, what are you capable of? You know, in our society there is one serious problem that many people who enter politics consider themselves to be God's days for every possible function, so being a minister at one point can be a minister of agriculture, in the other, being a minister of justice, it happened, let's say we had Dusan Petrovic as a classic example of that. It doesn't matter. It just matters that you're in some department. No wonder the "white ship" was made, in principle, on such people. To offer some astronauts, they'd say they could be astronauts, why not. You know, there must be this kind of responsibility for what you're capable of, what your range is. I'm afraid there's no such thing in our entire society, because there's a terrible stupid thinking about us, and that's -- if I go into politics, I'm going to make my own personal benefit. We, unfortunately, act like it and it's hard to root out, it's almost impossible to root it out. I think this government will have to deal with that rooted out in people, that it's not the point of getting into politics to do its own personal benefit, but to do something for the state and the people. Is that what we're finally going to have in some subsequent formation of government? I hope so. I understand the influence of foreign embassies, trying to put their people in, that's their job, but I'm glad we finally have someone who resists it, and who says, no, you can influence, you can't put governments together. Unfortunately, we had a situation earlier that certain governments had submitted a report to certain embassies, what they had done, as it was at the government's session. This government won't do it. Of course, I have no doubt that there have been various attempts to make certain ministers certain people, favors of certain embassies, but I'm glad to break it down slowly. You can see exactly by some media how whoever's throwing out, this one's going to be a minister, or this one's not, or this one's seen, you see exactly who he's rooting for, who the lobby group is rooting for, and that's really terrifying. I have to admit, I've been following up on the last few days of a number of statements from earlier political leaders today on the sidelines, but they're still affecting the media that they're talking about borrowing this country. You know, it tells you about the borrowing of this country by a man who left the City of Belgrade in billions and 200 million euros. Hey, guys! This tells you today whether Serbia is in debt. The one who left Belgrade with two cranes, today you have thousands of cranes, it's done, it's built, you have thousands of cranes today, it's done, it's built, Belgrade's developed, it's never been built this far. The one who left behind such a rolling stock in the City Traffic Company ruined the company. You've never got a better city transport today. Now, these are the ones that come out today and tell you that Serbia should function economically, those who, from the mayor of Belgrade, set themselves and their firm up and be a monopoliest in the advertising space. And they give themselves the right to talk about some kind of crime, or to talk about how the economy should go. It's really a paradox. I'll wait until tomorrow and the next day to see who the new ministers will be, so whether we give support or not as the Assembly, we'll see. As far as the Ministry Act itself is concerned, I can say that it's very well-conceived, they're good resistors. I am personally sorry, I personally advocate to return and introduce, although there is a Office that is in the Ministry of Justice, but I would like to introduce the Ministry of Faith, I think it is a very important social activity, I hope that it will come back someday, because it is a very important segment and Serbia is thanking God rich with religious communities and they have a serious social impact and it should be one such ministry that it exists, but we will see it in some future period. I call on the MPs to vote for this law and I call on you to be unique in this difficult fight against the organised crime that is coming to us and that has been declared, because really if we don't win, I fear that Serbia will be defeated, and Serbia must not be defeated, on the contrary, we must move forward and see exclusively as winners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u130	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go to the agenda, I have a strong need to say two, three sentences about this debate in the last hour. Mr. Martinovic, you held the panegiric to President Vukic, or not, as some say here, what you said here today, of course it was from your head, if you sat down, so you'd agree a little bit better, in the next day we'll have a show of the prime minister and I'll consider what you said today to be part of that exposé. I think I've said enough about it, so let others think whatever they want. About what you said, I'll add one thing. I am among the oldest here in this room and only of the statesmen who led the former Yugoslavia and this Serbia do not remember the king, but I remember all the others from the king and so on. And there's no one who can stand on the line to Mr. Vukic at stake, by work, by giving himself in every way. No one's anywhere near him. And it must be appreciated because if that quality and that human trait had become a synonym for this nation, people, we would have gone back a few decades, not to say less, into the world's top. That's why I appreciate it, and he's an example to every resident of this country and every child who goes to school and school. That must be appreciated. I needed to say it, and now I'm going to head to the agenda. Today we have before us the Ministry Act. There were a lot of critical notes here, in the sense that some other areas had to be affected, etc., by making some other ministries. I think it's the right measure. And now I'm going to show that to these three ministries that were introduced as new. First of all, I think it's very important for this society that, here, you've been talking about what kind of Sodoms and Gomorrahs have gotten into this country both inside and outside, and I could talk a lot more about it since I spent my entire working life in security, intelligence, counterintelligence, etc. And I know how to do it on the outside. So if you have such a situation, then it is very important that you give importance not only to human minorities, minority rights, but to social dialogue. The social dialogue of the sea, literally the sea of the coming years, and I am convinced, and it will probably remain, if Mr. Vukic remains, that we will take significant steps there, if we develop dialogue as the most important form of general social behaviour and relations and dialogue, then we will take a big step. That's why I think this is a ministry that's formed well-chosen to exist. The second thing, the other ministry -- family care and demographics. We have, here it is said today, and every session of this assembly mentions it, I personally feel it, one of the greatest fears of this nation's disappearance. It is therefore important to turn a strong ministry institution towards a strong, human, working, elan, wolfish fight against disappearance. Someone here said today, it seems to me my colleague Stosic, each year the disappearance of one in the Serbian frameworks of a big city. That's why I think it's a full hit when it comes to forming a new ministry. Finally, around the ministry of care for Serbia's villages. I thought when I received this material and when I read the name – Ministry of Village Care, I even thought, since I read the national programme of this national team for the rebirth of Serbia's villages, that the better term is "rebirth". No, this is a real expression. Why? For the first time in my life, I used to say how old I was, how much I remember, and so on, for the first time, I'm experiencing something that exudes me, which is that by law we're going to make sure that this country has to take care of the village. Now I'm going to say something about this, because I'm from PUPS -- "Three P", that one of the first priorities of all of the things of this party's programming is our village. And this isn't being introduced now and it hasn't grown into the ministry at once, we've devoted a good part of the past term to preparing exactly what the ministry is supposed to be up to. I don't know if you remember, on the last Thursday of November, when we had that meeting with the government and we were asking questions to the Prime Minister, I asked the government's opinion at that time whether they were considering forming a ministry like this. She said she couldn't answer me then, that she'd give me a written answer. It's not. She probably had other obligations. What's the big deal here? It's important here, and I want to say that since the beginning of last term, the cabinet of ministers without portfolios has been introduced on this topic, regional development, etc., that we, at the PUPS, have experienced a small extermination, because we have realized that the era of fighting is coming for that very village. And today, if there is a world of human good souls, I want to address our founder and first president of the PUPS, rested Dr. Ivan Krkobic, he is happy and happy there today, because he sees this country approach, I guess, in her history, in the most serious way of this problem. Why is it important that we resolve the question of the village? This is where my colleague mentioned earlier, what I was about to say... I lost my mind. What else was I gonna say? In the end, I'll just say this, because we don't have any more time, I agree that it's not a member of 37th in this law that's talking about taking care of the village, that it's not defined until the end, because the text contains a strategic view of the village's position, that it's a task. By proposing measures and activities, etc., this is something that my guess is to enter into this law, and that is why I suggest that in addition to many of the things that have been done when the village is formed and the National Council in which the people of the Academic Committee on the Village are, and that is why I want to say in the digression that this is the first time that we have a team like this, we have included the most clever heads of our science in this issue, especially when it comes to the village.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u133	Just this one. As for the debate, please, we have come and begun the work of this congregation in the conditions you see. What we do and what we need to sit us 250 in this room is absolutely conflicting with what is required when it comes to the circumstances of the crown. I ask the President of the Assembly and the Vice Presidents to sit down immediately and discuss it. Don't be sowing into another 250 families of this virus. We don't, we don't have conditions when it comes to this aspect of health care, we don't have the conditions in which we work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u134	Thank you very much, People's Messenger, once again. Now, in accordance with article 87, I'm setting a 60-minute break. We'll continue at 15 hours and five minutes. Thank you all for wearing protective masks.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I would ask you all to insert the cards again to update the list of present ones. We're moving on with the discussion. The next turn is Ljubisa Stojmirovic, if he is present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u136	It's just a matter of work, Mr. President, so I'm a lifesaver. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the beginning of my brief presentation, which will not last more than 45 minutes, I want to give you one piece of advice. Before entering this institution, keep in mind that you have sworn an oath in which you have committed to everything you do, you will work in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and everything you do, you will do in the interests of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. What is the easiest way to achieve these goals? Well, the easiest thing to do is define them yourself. Date, set a goal for yourself and say - in that period and that period, I'll do that too. Here, to begin one of the goals that lies ahead of all of us, from the simplest MP to the esteemed president of the Assembly and his crew. Our primary goal in the future is to restore dignity to the congregation. We wanted to admit it or not, because of these or those, we did it to bring that level to the lowest limits, and now it's up to us to create from this institution a temple of morality, dignity, virtue and skill, to try to talk here by force of argument, not by argument of force, not to insult one another, not to happen, as it did in some of the times behind us, to have the harshest scandals here, to have the ugliest words, curses and so forth. We will forget all this, and we will start in some new times, where we will show that we are worthy of the trust shown by the people of Serbia, or citizens, and that we are indeed the ones who are the best and who are therefore elected to this Assembly. I agree with previous colleagues who talked about the selection of personnel and said that we must choose the best, professional, moral and quality people. Why is that? Here, I'll tell you now. He says our people-- the fool thinks he knows everything and that he can do everything, and the smart man says-- people, so I don't know it, I can't do it, and he's able to pull over, stop and leave that shop to whoever knows it anymore. There's a nice folk proverb that says, "Send a fool to the army, and sit home and cry." Now, in order for that to not happen to us, we have to try to choose professional, moral, qualified people for all areas, regardless of whether it's something about the Assembly, whether it's something about government, public enterprises, etc. Serbia and Serbs are a brave, honest, dignified people, those are smart people who owe no one anything. Our independence, our freedom, we have developed with the blood of our ancestors, and we have to respect that and act in the future. At no time must we succumb to the influences of the various, not to say a word, but to always protect and defend the interests of Serbia and the Serb people. What's happening to us? Many of these white world powers tell us - you'll get nothing and your condition is either take it or leave it. Well, it can't be like that. Well, we're dignified and we have our cheeks. We have a offspring who should continue to live and work in these areas. Therefore, we must make sure that we preserve all that is ours, that we have gained honestly and honestly and that we give it to future generations. In his presentation, he mentioned that our village people are called peasants and a little worried about it, and I would say, mostly, I agree with Palm in some things, we may have parted here, I would say to him and everyone else who is worried about us being peasants and peasant people that all of these songs of our famous poet Desanka Maksimovic, who says, "There was this in one country of peasants on the hilly Balkans." Well, she put us in a song and said we were peasants, that we were peasant people and we were proud of it. Balkan wars, Great War, World War II, post-war torture, so who helped Serbia survive, feed? Well, our peasants. And we are proud to accept that we are peasants, that we are peasants, or whatever they want to call us, those who think it's a bad thing. But just as Palma said, the state has to find a way to allow these people to live with dignity from their work and to be what they are to the right host, because they are indeed real hosts, people who make their work for themselves and for the state. I was particularly pleased with the fact that the state was on its way, that is, the president said it was going to fight the mafia and crime. It's something we have to deal with. That's what the predecessors used to say before me, and I totally agree with that. As far as the opposition's relationship is concerned, it's normal for the opposition to have different opinions and different attitudes, but we're going to conflict with facts and attitudes, we're not going to take offense and argue, but whose arguments are stronger, let it win. Here, let's say, it's no big deal to accept some of the opposition's views. I agree with both Martinovic and his colleague Glisic's view that it would be good if there were a ministry of diaspora and Serbs in the region, as well as with Djukanovic's view of finding places for the religion ministry as well. The time will come, it will be corrected in some future government, but it's important that even now we are working on these problems and dealing with them. We have a great deal of trouble and great problems in order to preserve the water, to preserve the mineral wealth, the air, our space, because many are trying, for their own sakes, to destroy it for us. On all sides, you can see that Serbia is turning out to be a dump, where there are thousands of tons of waste. No one's taking care of it. We weren't raised to protect our environment. It cuts down forests, mini power plants, that's all that destroys Serbia, and we unconsciously maybe allow it by counting, come on, we're toleranced we'll be nice, cultural and so on. We come into a situation to tolerate some who do not think well of Serbia, but they convince us, so you have to be tolerated, tolerance must happen in all areas and so on. They want to get us into a situation where we get sick of "Stokholm syndrome," that as a victim, we start to love our executioners. Well, that's not the way it is. A Serb can't keep being tolerated and being tolerated by any kind of bogeyman and letting them do it all. Big Bulgakov or Bulgakov, I don't know what the emphasis is, I'm from the south, so it's so little different with us, he said, "There will come a time when the degree of tolerance will reach such a level that smart people are forbidden to think, so that they don't hurt the feelings of fools." Well, we're not going to do that, we're going to think wisely and wisely and work in the interests of our country. Finally, since I was joking when I said 45 minutes, 45 minutes is a school class, at the end of one message for all colleagues – keep our letter and keep our language. For starters, please call this home your real name. This is the Serbian Parliament, and when you speak about it, say the Parliament, the Manite Parliament. Let Parliament remain with those with whom it is called. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u137	Thank you, Professor, it was less than 45 minutes. The next is Samira Ćosovic, but I don't see her present. He's here. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u138	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs, given that we have before us a debate on the proposal for a law on ministries, I am not going to talk about the already existing ministries at this time, but I will pay attention to the new ministries that this law provides for. I must say that the SDPS, which I represent, is fundamentally and programically advocated precisely for issues which the new ministries will deal with, and especially the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. This is witnessed by the strategic documents adopted by the SDPS and implemented by the SDPS in its political action. One of the documents mentioned above concerns gender equality, because for us a much greater presence of women in political life and places of decision is at the republic but also at the local level. In addition to this, I will say that in our parliamentary group, a larger number of parliamentary mandates belong to women, that many significant functions are at the republican level, but also at the local level are entrusted to women who are successfully acting on them. The raise of the quota to 40% of the less-represented half has led to a significant shift and has allowed women to participate more in the local and national parliaments. I don't think the quotas are good, but I am also aware that they are necessary until the conditions for equal participation of women in political and public life are met. I believe that the new ministry, among other things, should deal with finding better and more efficient mechanisms for more successful co-operation with local bodies, whether they are committees, commissions or advice on gender equality, and because of all those women who are fighting some battles at the bar to improve women's position. This means that there must be a specific sector in the ministry that will deal with this problem and which can be addressed by representatives of local mechanisms for gender equality, but also by representatives of the civil sector in order to solve problems together and develop projects aimed at improving women's and gender equality. I also speak from experience as someone who led a Committee on Gender Equality in the Municipality of Prepolje in some previous period, when we had more ideas for the realization of projects dealing with improving gender equality, but we didn't have enough support, enough information, and especially enough funding to implement these projects. We of the SDPS, of course, will also work to improve the legal regulation, which deals with this issue, because it is common knowledge that the democracy of each country is measured precisely by the rights that are being achieved in a country of national minorities, but also by sensitive groups in society. As for the formation of the village ministry, I believe it is a strong step towards revitalisation and empowerment of the village. The current situation in Serbia's villages is not satisfactory at all. I will give an example of the municipality of Prepolje, according to the 2011 census, in 30 villages live less than 50 inhabitants, the average age of the population is over 60 years. In rural schools that numbered over 100 students, the school bell is no longer heard. A similar situation is across Serbia. It is therefore necessary to adopt regulations and measures that will revive the village and keep young people back in the rural areas. It is necessary for the village to create an attractive environment for young people, making sure that without good infrastructure, digitisation, association, sustainable development, conservation of natural resources with environmental concerns, there is no retention of young people and the return of young people to the countryside. The goal of the future ministry should also be to establish mechanisms that will allow abandoned rural areas to move towards modern Serbian villages. Believing that the existing and newly formed ministries will contribute to the development and improvement of the sector to cover, the SDPS will support the draft ministry law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u139	Thank you. Next up is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the constitution of the National Assembly and after the election of the President of the Assembly, it is logical to find before us a draft law on the ministries. We also expect to form a government in the next few days, and I think this is a good opportunity to remind ourselves of the results, it is a good opportunity to draw the line, but also to talk about some of the goals that we are going to pursue so that we can continue to lead Serbia forward. So far, SNS and Aleksandar Vucic, the party's president, have shown that the work, seriousness and industriousness are the qualities of those people that the party has delegated to lead the Serbian government or to be members of the government. I would like to congratulate my colleague Vladimir Orlic, and I am quite certain that we have proposed Vladimir Orlic to be one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we will continue in this direction, to propose worthy and hardworking people who deserve to be in those functions, because that means only greater responsibility for them. I always like to go back to some previous period and results, because behind the government led by the SNS are exclusively work and results. We can list for a long time the work and the results behind us, I'll just mention a few. We are witnessing, of course, new hundreds of kilometers of highways, new kindergartens, schools, clinical centres, renovated cultural institutions. We are witnessing a major fight against crime and corruption, we are witnessing a stable budget, now wages and pensions are not only stable, but they are increasing, we are witnessing the lowest unemployment rates that are now moving around around 7% in Serbia's modern history. Therefore, it is evident that in all areas behind the SNS-led authorities, work and results alone. That's right with the National Assembly. In the past, the National Assembly has made many laws and many decisions that are important, above all for the citizens of our country, and I am sure that we will continue to improve our legislative system, but also to implement a policy that the citizens have given great support in the last elections. Today we have before us a draft law on ministries, I would not talk about all the ministries that have been proposed. For the sake of the public, I will repeat three new ministries that stand as a proposal, therefore, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, the Ministry of Family Care and Demography and the Ministry of Agriculture. In the previous period, we were able to see that the Serbian government was working to improve all areas, but also these areas, since there were no such ministries, in that it had passed regulations or adopted measures, proposed amendments and complemented already existing laws, and there is already a justification for the existence of such ministries, so that they would deal in a more detailed and systematic manner with these issues and with all the problems that can be reported in these areas. In this sense, we can also talk today about the 2020 to 2025 programme, where I will find it particularly important to have a ministry of care for the village, since I am also a board member in the City Municipality of the Red Cross in Nis, which has 23 villages, and of which there are major problems with water, sewers and other things in 19 villages. However, I will leave the discussion for a moment when the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister and members of the Government, will be here before us, and I will speak more in detail then. In the end, I just want to realize that citizens' support certainly obliges us to continue reforms, to allow citizens of Serbia to live and work in a regulated country, in Serbia that will be able to, and I think it can already mate the most developed countries of Europe and the world. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, the parliamentary group of Aleksandar Vukic – will support for our children the draft law on ministries that we are discussing today in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u141	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u142	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS about the proposal for a law on ministries, above all, and other points of the agenda. Namely, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on ministries, which has submitted 167 MPs to the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. I am saying this on purpose because it is necessary to know that it is quite logical when a parliamentary group wins so many votes in parliamentary elections in the Assembly and represents a parliamentary majority, it can form a government and other bodies, then it has the right to submit a draft law on ministries. Because the proposal for a law on ministries is a way that this parliamentary group together with its coalition partners who want and accept it and can, wants to realise the goals of the future government's work. In fact, we were in a position to hear President Vukic talk about the government's goals a dozen days ago. He's counted six main targets. It is logical that the Prime Minister will submit a significant part of his exposé to those objectives and will explain it, but it is so logical to expect, given the successes achieved by the previous government, that those ministers who remain to work in the next government will have to be better than they were, because that is something they are expected to do. It's a good suggestion to establish three new ministries. I think this government shows the desire to achieve even better and more significant results in these areas of the new ministry and to have simple and these areas of life in a certain way and legally standardised, but also to edit them in a better way to achieve results. Otherwise, it is no news that the assembly majority determines through a proposal for a ministry law the number of ministries that should be at the level of one state. The practice here is very different. In some countries, smaller ones are established, in some major ministries. I remember a few years ago, there were nine or ten ministries in the Republic of Hungary, but there were 40 and some state secretaries who were then ministers in the country. I think this is a smart way to implement the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme and I think it's a well-compromised structure of the entire government. I am fully convinced that Mrs Brnabic, together with all other ministers, will meet the challenges facing Serbia. I say answer because we've accomplished so much. I really think not only as an MP for our SPS parliamentary group, but also as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia that what has been done, for example, works in the security of Serbia's energy future, but through infrastructure projects and through the creation of one security for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the part of ensuring profit and insurance for the current and future generations, is something that can only make us happy. The fight against crime announced by President Vukic can only be an additional element of the overall result, as fighting crime creates a condition for legal certainty, conditions are created for more companies to come to Serbia to create conditions to create more jobs. In one word, we create conditions to resolve some of the things that have been seen as problematic for Serbia at the moment. One of these things can certainly be solved through the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Demography. It's no secret, statistics show we're losing a significant number of people. One number is due to mortality, the other is because young people go to solve their existence in some other countries, but the problem of youth leaving is not only the issue of Serbia. It is a matter of a significant part of Eastern and Southeast Europe. I used to say, it may seem strange or not to someone, but I think the creation of a European high education space actually created a situation in Western countries to get a finished product, which is created here in our country and in neighbouring countries. Then we need to do a lot to stop this outflow of young people, and in order to stop the outflow of young people, we need to create conditions. There's got to be more of us. I think the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Demography is a very good move. Minister with no portfolio, Professor. Slavica Djukic did what was in her power, created good conditions, good preconditions for this issue to be resolved now in an even better way, but it is not only about one element. There's a lot to do here. Family care is not only about birth incentives, it is also about creating a system of values that will show the importance of a family for the survival and development of a society. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't know how much you know, Serbia belongs to the oldest nation in the world, we're among the five in Europe, between 10 in the world, and we really need to make significant efforts in this area, create conditions for us to be more, to make the family a center of life, to simply not only this ministry, but every other ministry is doing everything possible to make the number of residents on the next census, which is in a decade, far greater. You know, it's not just about the profit path, it's about young couples and the possibility of a preschool facility, of having a kindergarten, of having a proper school, of having an appropriate loan to buy a housing unit. There's a lot to be done. When it comes to another new ministry, the village ministry, I think it's a very good move. As my friend Dragan Markovic Palma said, 86% of the village is slowly disappearing. Villages disappear, young people leave, the elderly remain there unfortunately until the end, there is no perspective, simply closing everything that existed in the country. A small number of cases where, for example, like Dragan in Jagodina, I am not saying this because he is here next to me, but the public of Serbia needs to know because it can also be a model for all other local self-governments of course with the help of the state, in Jagodina there is practically no village that is not associated with the asphalt with Jagodina. There is no village in Jagodina where no home of culture is built. There isn't a village in Jagodina that didn't provide gas heating. Jagodina created conditions for a number of companies to come and open their facilities, to set up their branches. A new number of jobs have been opened so that those from nearby villages can easily come to work and return. It's a way to create conditions, but so you don't think I'm only praising my coalition partner. Here, Professor Stojmirovic who spoke before, I know that he runs a book collection campaign for rural schools. It's a very noble move and, of course, all of us MPs, everyone else who wants to donate books to get schools in the rural area as many schools as possible. You know, in the Serbian area while there's a school, there's life. When the school is shut down then you can hardly count, when the young leave, that the parent will not follow them and their footsteps. But, and the work of this ministry, as good as it can be, and I expect it to be, I must also be connected to the work of other ministries. You know, the guy who lives in the country wants to know what kind of agricultural culture that he can accomplish, if I can say he doesn't win, but how much to justify his work, his hard work, and his sweat, should be good co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture. Simply, other ministries should help, and I think the real move of the government is to form such an important and important ministry for Serbia. The third ministry to be formed, since we have here a bill on ministries and three new ministries are scheduled for formation. Third Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. First, let me say something about dialogue. I am deeply convinced that people in Serbia do not understand what the word dialogue means. The dialogue, according to a well-known philosopher, is when you're having a conversation with someone who doesn't think like you. We in Serbia didn't teach people to listen to each other. If you don't agree with someone's opinion, it turns out you're his opponent, and you don't serve people, or at least most, with the power of arguments. This is not something that only a matter of theory you have had the opportunity to see in these talks we have had and with opposition representatives over the past few months, that when someone decides that a boycott is his means of political struggle then they say that there is no possible dialogue in Serbia. That's not true. The dialogue is always possible, the Assembly is a place for dialogue both yesterday and today, it will be tomorrow. All those who want to have dialogue with the other side, with those who don't think like them, can find room for dialogue in the Assembly. We simply have to teach people, if I may say so, there should be a culture of dialogue on all issues, however difficult they are, because dialogue is needed to solve every open question. Something about the second dimension of this law, which is human and minority rights. So far, this part of the ministry has been within the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and Minister Ruzic has done a great job, but it is a fact that this is a step forward. It is good that a special ministry is formed, it is good for Serbia. Serbia has a large number of members of different minorities. Serbia is the only, I dare say, one among the few countries in Europe where minorities have such a level of rights. Believe me, the wealth of diversity that exists, the example of it works in Vojvodina, but also the legal solutions that the state applies, Serbia can only be proud of them. The use of official languages of minority members, the fact that... 25 Councils of National Minorities, the fact that every minority can and is equal to another, not to mention all that is done in the fields of culture and education and in all other areas is something that can be enjoyed. I think this is a step more because the question of minorities is not just a question of our way of life. Serbia has always been a multicultural country, but this is also important because of our EU negotiation process. Remember, some neighboring, friendly countries, and when the time comes, they always use that question to give us an obstacle. In 2012, it was Romania, Croats, as I would say, do not stop to announce it. It was a question of the position of the Bulgarian minority a year ago, two. It's just good that there's this ministry that's only going to deal with minorities. Two co-operation offices with civil society and the Human Rights Office have been abolished. It's all part of this new ministry now. I think, in one word, that this Ministry Act has done the right thing, which for Serbia, three important areas will now be the subject of the work of special ministries. This gives, of course, the basis that these ministries will also be effective, in the end they should only look up to their colleagues who have worked in other ministries and who have worked well so far and who have not done well, and they would not have been supported by citizens in the elections. Simply, I think this Ministry Act is something that absolutely needs to be supported, because I think these laws will make Serbia better. The SPS parliamentary group will, of course, vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u143	Thank you. The word is Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u144	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the President of Serbia and the President of the SNS, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, a few days ago defined six basic and strategic principles, i.e. guidelines dealing with the future Government of the Republic of Serbia and future ministers and, of course, we as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and all MPs who need to give maximum support and should have a maximum impact on creating the best possible legal framework in order to meet all these six principles and strategic objectives in the next period. What is "Condio Sin Qua non" is the policy of President Vukic and SNS, it is economic development, it is a struggle for our country's independence, for economic, political, social reform and, of course, for a strategic and couple of excellencies political issue, which is a struggle for the preservation of KIM within the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which is a struggle to preserve our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. I, President, have to go back in time from a few years ago and say that in terms of economic development, in terms of economic reforms, one very serious quantum leap has been made in just four years, given everything that President Vukic has done with his vision in terms of attracting both foreign direct investment and the impact on domestic economy, domestic privates and businessmen are encouraged and motivated to invest as much as possible in our country, to employ people and to fulfill what his government was aiming at from the beginning of 2014, which is hiring people, and that is the man who is at the heart of the attention of this government and this state and the Republic of Serbia in the coming years and in the future. Of course, all of this would not be without political stability, without what President Vukic has been up for all these years, and that is regional stability and that is stability in the Republic of Serbia, although today and today, of course, we have a lot of challenges, a lot of lateral winds and I am free to say a lot of lateral blows when it comes to the opinion and approach to our country's success, especially when it comes to the economic model, especially when it comes to our economic reforms. I can't ignore that fact and not say that we are definitely, and that's what those who love us and those who are our partners and those who are our friends in the international community, that we ended up having 1.9 billion euros of foreign direct investment this year, that we expect 2.3 billion euros of foreign direct investment in the year in which the largest pandemic in human history still lasts. At a time when many more developed, richer countries are struggling to preserve the health system, to preserve the health of their own citizens and people, we have succeeded, thanks to good leadership, thanks to the difficult measures, thanks to good care, but also to the competence of the government of the Republic of Serbia itself, the president of our country and everything that has been created in the domain of geopolitical relations and geopolitical positions of our country, to preserve this same health system, to preserve our healthcare workers and to preserve our people, but to preserve our country's economic system, in addition to everything that has hit us over the past few months, good measures on incentives for the economy, especially in the private sector. We were able to do that. We succeeded, and we are the first country in Europe when it comes to, I can say, economic development now, because in a situation where many more developed countries recorded a 10%, 12% decline, look at Montenegro, their income from tourism fell by 92% in the first eight months of this year, and we are attracting two billion euros in foreign direct investment. Some time ago, a respected opposition colleague spoke of foreign direct investment not being so good and positive for the development of a country. I will remind him, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia that German companies employ 60,000 people in Serbia, that American companies employ 25,000 people, that Turkish companies employ around 15,000 people. Just what I counted is about 90,000 people, 90,000 families, so multiply times three, that's almost 300,000 people. That's what makes us, what the SNS distinguishes from everyone else, and that's a concern for the common man and that's a concern for every job. And it wasn't hard for us, either, he didn't have a hard time opening up every factory, showing up at every construction site, whether there were 10 people, 50, 500, and there were examples when they were employed in some factories, thank God, and a few thousand people, and of course there would be such opportunities. Yesterday, a very important meeting was held with Bundestage MP Mr. Fajfer, the same topic was investment, the same topic was economics, the same topic was development, the same topic was new jobs, but for all this time we did not fall into the defence of our country's national interests. I will remind all of you and our citizens of what happened in the United States about a month and a half ago and that position that the president provided not for himself, but for our country, to be respected and to be what is most precious and important in international relations, to be reliable partners, to be what we say in Washington and to be the same attitude we say in Moscow and in Beijing and in Brussels both in London and in Berlin and Paris. That's why Serbia has an international position like this today. That's why Serbia and President Vukic could reject that famous 10th act that hung over us all like an evil spirit over our heads. When it comes to the agreement with the US administration and the economic normalisation of relations between Belgrade and Pristina, which is perhaps one of the first major diplomatic victory of our country to which President Vukic has returned the winning spirit not only to our politicians, not only to us sitting here in parliament and in the government, but also to our people, that after years of defeat, after years and dozens of negotiations and talks that we had and came head down, we went with great ambitions, and came home with great losses and great concessions, we came into a situation that was in the midst of Washington and the country that was also today Patron so-called. Independence of the so-called “independence”. Kosovo, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija, that we can say there – these are our red lines, we want to co-operate, we want the best possible relations bilateral between Serbia and the United States, we think that we are, in fact, the key allies of America, and not others. Why? Well, because our president and SNS are leading Serbian politics. We are no longer, as was the case by 2012, no one's dominion, no one's prelate and no ambassador of any country, no matter how large, no matter how powerful, no matter how powerful, no matter how economically powerful, cannot influence here who will be the minister, who will be the MP, whether the president of Republika Srpska will come here to visit or the prime minister or the president of parliament, whether we will hold a joint session of the Assembly committee with some committee from the Republika Srpska parliament, no. Why? Because we are leading, led by Alexander Vukic, a Serbian policy in this country, and because of this very economic empowerment, because of this economic growth that we had last year, let's say, of 4.9%, where we were second in Europe, Poland was the first with 5.1%, we created conditions that we could be an independent country, that we can be treated and behave, that we can develop our military industry, that we can develop our own defence power and our own defence power, but also that we can be respected in Beijing, that we have a strategic partnership between China and our country, thanks to this friendship, this commitment of our president and, of course, re-president of Shi. It's the same situation with Moscow and President Putin. It is the same situation, of course, when it comes to American administration and good relations between our president and Mike Pens and Donald Tramp and Ri Grenel, but also with Senators Johnson, Murphy and all those who influenced me to refer now to what my esteemed colleague Alexander Martinovic said, to change the situation in the United States, that from the position that everything is over, that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is not discussed with US officials, we come to the situation that Ri Grenel after talks with Vukic says – wait, come on, we will all accept and support everything that the two sides agree on, every solution. No more chairs in the United Nations, no more pressure for Serbia to recognise the so-called independence. Kosovo, but Ri Grenel, as Donald Trump's special envoy, is talking about how he can say it, trying to come up with some imaginative solution that will lead to long-term peace, to long-term stability, and that is exactly what is contained in the Washington Agreement. And what's that? It's a "way of peace", it's an infrastructure, it's an interconnection between people, so between Serbs and Albanians, so we have to work together in the interests of our country, in the interest of the Serbian people, because we sell goods and services in Kosovo and Metohija for more than 500 million dollars. We need to open up for our businessmen and Albania's market, we need to open up every possible market, and we can only do so if we cooperate well and, of course, if we are focused on economic growth and economic development. That's why the idea of Vučić's four years ago is still a customs union, and now it's being translated into a mini Schengen, a great idea and what's most important to Serbia, the best for finding citizens, the best for our economy. These are some things and principles that we must count on, on which here as parliamentarians, regardless of party membership, which we must work on together, because this concerns the highest and most important interests of our people and of our country. As far as the government and the ministries themselves are concerned, all that has been announced and, of course, the proposal for three new ministries is great things. I can say when it comes to human and minority rights that Serbia is definitely the champion of human and minority rights, the champion of gender equality throughout Europe, although, of course, my colleagues who were here also members of the Women's Parliamentary Network in previous councils know the subject much better. The number of women in our parliaments, in our local parliaments, in the government of the Republic of Serbia where 50% will be, shows in fact how one open country is and how slowly we become not only the economic leader of the region. We already have. We are the economic tiger of this region, but we are becoming a country that is champion in all possible areas when it comes to social life, starting with economics, tourism, attractiveness in every possible domain, culture, music, sport, so every possible industry. As we are hab when it comes to travel, due to the excellent strategic move of association and strategic partnership between the airline and Er Serbia. So we became a hub for all possible events and all possible actions concerning social and social life in this part of Europe. As far as demographics are concerned, the Ministry of Demography of the Future, that's something I know that our president of the state and party may be the subject and perhaps the problem and the challenge that he is most concerned about. It's a topic and it's a thing that will require a lot of dedication and a lot of work, but also a lot of time. What's most important in everything he is is the first leader, the first president of this country, the first statesman who started that topic and who said -- wait for the people, let's make a plan, let's see what our vision is, how to be more, how to do that, that everything we've done in terms of political success, economic success, we crown by keeping people here and what that number of people who are born in relation to those who are dying will be much greater. I love statistics very much, I'm very close to it, and I can tell you that statistics for the whole region are catastrophic, that compared to the region, that we are even in a good situation, but of course we're not satisfied. You Albania now have 2.5 million people living there. Croatia has fallen below four million inhabitants and, of course, this is strategically important that President Vukic is initiating, as one of the key, creative topics, social issues in this country, to see how to boost our demographic growth, how to bring him into line with our economic growth. That's why he struggles day and night for every job and for economic development and for our country's economic progress. Also, when it comes to partnerships, when it comes to our country's development, we are from a country that has no friends, from a country that was the 1990s of the world's money and global system, becoming a country that has many partners, many allies and many friends. We will never forget the beginning of the pandemic, the declaration of state of emergency in our country and the immediate assistance of the Chinese government and the People's Republic of China both in equipment and in expert teams, where we have shown that as a small country, a miniature country for one such great China, Russia or America, in some way we deserve them to take care of us and send them to us at the time when these great powers of one another were hijacked in open air, they took each other's ships with that equipment, then China sent us help. Then Russia sent us help. Then America sent us help and the EU, though with a little delay, but I must say it sent help. I want to be completely open and completely realistic in that domain. Of course, let me also say one more thing about how much of the impossible, one serious work, serious commitment and activity results. It's these 18 countries that suspended or recognized the so-called. Kosovo. I will refer, I spoke to Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic almost, and she was in 2009 and she was meeting with today's current US congress chairman, Nancy Pelosi. In some 45 minutes of conversation, she couldn't wait to ask him about Kosovo what to do, what to expect from America. Nancy Pelosi then said, Madam Chairman, that's for us the topic that's over, that's the topic that deals with the third level, the third echelon in our Congress and the Senate and our American administration. Eleven years later, President Vukic, of course, with full support and great work by Foreign Minister Dacic, comes to that result, 18 countries are recognizable and suspending independence and recognition so-called. Kosovo, 18 countries in just a year and a half. These were countries that were very attached to these forces, which were the main promoters of independence, so-called "independence". Kosovo. We succeed in making Kosovo so-called He doesn't enter Unesco, so he doesn't enter Interpol. I guarantee you, 60 to 70 percent of the so-called confession. Kosovo has since 2008, 17 February to 6 May, due exclusively to the lack of activity, the absence of patriotism and the struggle for our territory, our country and what is most important to our citizens, for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Today, we are not ashamed to say that their rights have been compromised, that our religious, cultural and every other heritage in Kosovo and Metohija has been compromised. We are critical of why the Serbian List, Vukic, decides for himself, so of course that this assembly has finally been shown through the Serbian list, that there is no more Slobodan Petrovic or Petkovic or anyone 10th there who will collude with Albanians and work against his own state and against his own people. No, but as in this House, we have a concentration government today. We invited all people who love Serbia, who want good to this country, to work together, is it a shame, is it bad for us to work together even though we differ around some views. Is it bad to increase the number of sites from 60 grand to 70? Is it bad to do three "Biograda on Water", make another 200km of highway, rail, and all that is needed for this country to finally be modern and a country in which it enjoys a good and rich living. Finally, to conclude, the crown of all of this is something that is naturally unwitting, which no one can dispute, as the results of Presidents Vukic and SNS, is a new public opinion survey by an American agency, 65% look, ladies and gentlemen, 64% of today's SNS has. Historically, and that is what is most important, what the people say and what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia say. I don't see well, because they're tiny numbers, this one calls the opposition out of parliamentary, SSP, or whatever they're called, these boycotters, 1%. It's the final court, it's something that in any case reflects what Alexander Vukic is doing, what the SNS is doing and what we're all doing here in parliament. I invite you all, of course, to work together for Serbia and for everything that, as a great visionary, has done and defined President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u145	Thank you, Vladimir. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u146	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in our previous presentations, we have had the opportunity to hear many different explanations of the bill. What I want to point out concerns the three new ministries for which we from the Justice and Trust Party believe that who is existent with our programme and the declarations we have made in the previous term are very often potent. The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue is beyond the need of every democratic society, especially societies that cultural, national, religiously composed as a mosaic of diversity, such as the Serbian society with a third of the population that does not belong to the majority population and as such is more sensitive to the various challenges we face daily. Here we think not only of people who have circled their national identity, but also of cultural, national and religious certainty in their definition, because they have a home country that promotes and protects their status in the Republic of Serbia, the Bosniaks, Albanians, Hungarians, Croats, Romanians and others, but also of those communities that are less visible or below the radar due to the appointment of one of the mechanisms to protect their definition, such as Roma, Askali, Macedonians, Vlah, Bulgarians, Slovaks and other smaller or larger communities that traditionally and domestically live in the Republic of Serbia. The protection and promotion of their rights is of utmost importance for society, especially since we are in the lobby preparing for the upcoming census to allow every citizen to freely, according to his own conviction and feeling, show his identity. That is why we from the Justice and Reconciliation Party as representatives of the list that have been supported by the Bosniaks and members of other national communities and minority peoples, and in particular Roma, Askali, Gorans, Macedonians, Slovaks who are a significant part of the majority people, and thus authorised us to represent their interest in this Parliament, particularly interested in this ministry, which, by definition, will deal with the respect and protection of their rights, and particularly in the context of the implementation of legal solutions that we have already said on several occasions, that most of them are well-conceived. As for the second part of the name of this ministry, social dialogue, we also find one of the key ideas of the Justice and Reconciliation Party policy, especially our leader, academician Muamer Zukorlic, has advocated this for many years, is the necessity of social dialogue as a mechanism for resolving misunderstanding among peoples of the Balkans that has no alternative. Therefore, the formation of this ministry is considered part of the merits of our operation and the potential of these values to be done to the Republic of Serbia by meeting the differences and points of integration, mutual proseness and wealth, with respect for all the specificities of each other and different. In the same way, we are looking at the Ministry of Family Care and the Ministry of Agriculture, because it is two categories of which directly depended on the survival of this society and the state, and that is what the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party insisted much in the previous period, and so much has been initiated and done, especially in the infrastructure sense of eliminating injustice towards Pestera, because thanks to our engagement, the involvement of Academyman Zukorlic these days has been working very hard to complete a cave highway that has been waiting for more than 70 years, which, we are firmly convinced, is one of the key preconditions of the rest in this most beautiful but also cruel life, especially during the winter period, the work of Sandzak and the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it must be just the beginning of the removal of injustice accumulated dozens of years ago and that the village ministry has to do a lot to get life at full capacity back to this and all other vessels of our society's housewives. In order for all of this to happen, not only these ministries are needed, a whole system of administrative authorities that will work without any expense is needed to restore life not only in our villages, but also in our cities, because our cities are also at risk. Today we have heard about this city, New Pazar, as a European record player in terms of the population of young people who, unfortunately, are increasingly scattered around the world. However, my city is European these days, so the world record player in some other, extremely negative trends is on the list of the most polluted cities of Europe and the world at the top of the list. That's why we need a decisive action, first of all the Ministry of Ecology, because this kind of pollution requires an alarming ecological action in all the cities of Sandzak where the issues of the dump are not resolved, as well as a number of other measures, because, if we miss it, the events of the previous months will be just one in a series of bad things to come. Yeah, well, we're even records of mortality, we're records of Corona mortality, and that's why we won't keep our mouths shut, and that's why we think it's necessary for the future ministry to pull the chain of responsibility out of everyone who participated. We, as MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, are also thinking about launching a survey committee that will deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u147	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u148	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members, it is a great honor to speak here in front of you, in this institution. First, I would like to thank my Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandar Vukic for being part of the "Alexander Vukic - for our children" parliamentary group. The law that is before us, the Ministry Act is excellent, and I will talk briefly about the subject that is most important to me. As you know, in 2012, when the Serbian Progressive Party first came to power with its coalition partners, we went from year to year to a fierce struggle for the state, national and economic interests of the state of Serbia and all its citizens. That's where we found the mob, individual tycoons and criminals, criminals, both among politicians and among tycoons. Thanks to the honesty, energy and value of Aleksandr Vukic and his policy since 2012, it has been the first major blow in Serbia's recent history to the mafia and the strike against crime and corruption. The Anti-Corruption Strategy was soon established, and the Action Plan was adopted to fight corruption, action teams were formed in the most important institutions, and those who existed strengthened. However, the mafia has always responded in its own way, whether through those political structures that are now outside parliament, because the people wanted to, or through the tycoon, or through individual foreign centres of power. But our president, together with the Serbian government, responded in an adequate manner and continued to do what he knows best, which is to lead our Serbia and all its citizens into a faster, better and safer future, a future for our children. From the new ministries proposed, I am very happy that we are also getting the Ministry of Family and Demography and Human and Minority Rights and the Ministry of Agriculture. The village feeds us, and the family is the primary cell of our society. If human and minority rights are respected anywhere in the region, it is in our Republic of Serbia, but in order to continue to fight for state and national interests, to fight the crown of the virus, for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, for higher salaries and pensions, we must give full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic in the fight against the dangerous and serious mafia in the coming period. We must be the main partner, the main support of both the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Government. And in the end, I would especially like to look at one area that we have touched, that is, my colleagues from previous speakers, as regards the foreign affairs ministry and the Diaspora Co-operation Administration and Serbs in the region. As someone born in Trebinj, Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, I must say that, thanks to the policy of Aleksandar Vukic over the past eight years, the Serb in Zagreb, Drvar, Mostar, Niksic, Podgorica and Skopje feel more protected year after year. All Serbs I have contacted from Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, the Federation of BiH, do not talk about Republika Srpska, as well as Croatia, feel their Serbia as a queen, and Aleksandra Vukic as a president who is believed to be, who guards and cares for the Serbian people both in Serbia and in the region and who, of course, cares about all those other peoples who live in our Serbia. Therefore, honourable fellow Members, I call on you to support this Law on the Ministry and, within a few days, the new Government of Serbia and, as I said at the beginning of the speech, to give full support, which is our basic task, the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and the interests of the Republic of Serbia are best pursued by the policy of our President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u149	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Dubravka the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u150	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, concerning today's proposal for a law on ministries, I would like to remind myself of the real principle of forming a body of administration, which already states by its name that areas in which the education of ministries will be determined in accordance with social reality, i.e. that the formation of ministries must be dictated by reality. We all agree that the migration of the population from the village to the cities is caused by different problems that follow life in the country reality. We also agree that the reality is that the birth rate is 30% lower than the needs of a simple renewal of the population. It is therefore certainly the reality and need to form a ministry responsible for the care of the family and ministry responsible for the care of the village. As regards respect and the exercise of human rights, it is certainly imperative in a democratic society, and the issue of the need for the existence of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue does not even need to be set up, as is not a newspaper in our legal system. However, I would particularly welcome the idea that this new ministry as one of its main tasks is dealing with anti-discrimination policy, as the fight to achieve the principle of equality and equal opportunities is the cornerstone of the Socialist Party's policy. I would refer again to demographic issues that have been significantly updated over the last four years. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, dedicatedly addressed these issues which became significantly more visible. Significant measures have been taken. The amount of parental allowance has been increased, so it is now moving in the range of 100,000 dinars for the first child to 2,160,000 for the fourth child. An increased amount of income compensation during maternity leave, while the Republic Health Insurance Fund has enabled an unlimited number of attempts at out-of-body fertilisation to obtain the first child. All of these are the successes of the government so far. However, I believe that the establishment of the Ministry of Family Care will mean a kind of institutional improvement and raising these issues to an even higher level. Also, I think that the measures of population policies in the coming period should not only be economic and that the new ministry, apart from co-operation with the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the ministry responsible for the labour issue, should also work coordinatedly with the Ministry of Culture. I believe that during this period, that is, the age of dominating individualism, it is necessary to promote family values, promote community and partnership tolerance. I also believe that co-operation with the Youth Ministry is necessary to encourage and encourage young people to make a decision on the basis of a family, a decision on the conclusion of marriage, a decision on offspring. Why am I saying that? Because the average age of a mother is almost 30 years. All of this is found in the strategy to encourage births adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I believe that the newly formed ministry will continue to implement it, that it will continue to work towards achieving the stationed population as a general goal, that it will continue to work on easing the economic cost of parenting, then adopt appropriate measures in the area of housing. Here, first of all, I mean subsidized housing loans, extremely important to young people and young couples. Also, existing working-legal mechanisms for harmonising work and parenting should be promoted. In fact, this crisis caused by the coronary virus has shown that work from home as an institute that already exists in our labour law, and that it is applicable and I consider this institute significant not only for the purpose of preventing the spread of the disease, but also for overcoming the problems that women employees face. In any case, issues of population policy and demographics issues are the survival of our society. The issues of achieving human and minority rights are the improvement of democratic values in our society, and the issues of concern for the village are the preservation of the pillars of our society, our peasant. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group supports the draft ministry law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u151	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, it is my honor today to talk about this bill that sublimes everything the SNS led by President Aleksandar Vukic promised in the elections when it received huge support from citizens. Two million citizens supported the list of Aleksandar Vukic – the Serbian Progressive Party – for our children, and this bill is the proof that we are fighting for children who will grow up in a strong and stable state and that this bill and the establishment of these new ministries, three new ministries, is evidence of everything the Serbian Progressive Party has said in the campaign that will be respected. I will look a little more at the establishment of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Dialogue since my colleagues have talked a lot about the Ministry of Family and the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Dialogue shows that the goal of the future government is to conduct dialogue and that is very nice to my distinguished colleague, Professor. Zarko Obradovic explained what dialogue was. The dialogue is not what a Lutovac advocates, who cannot control his own political party to love him, who advocates going out into the streets and burning down the Assembly, dialogue is not what tycoon Gilas and his puppet Marinika Tepic, who come and stone the police, the Assembly, violently engage in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the dialogue is to talk, that we who do not have the same opinion on different topics. The issue of gender equality is the question it has raised and I have apostrophe of President Aleksandar Vukic, with my request that the future government have a minimum of 50% of women. Let us not forget that the initiative of President Vukic was founded in the previous period by the Co-ordination Body for Gender Equality. Also in the previous period, the previous assembly assembly passed a large number of laws that improved the position of women. We are the first non-EU country to introduce a gender equality index, so only the formation of this special ministry says it will continue with reforms in this field. We mentioned today the six principles that President Aleksandar Vukic said should be the principles of the future government. One of them is the health of citizens, as the first goal, especially given today's situation in the world, as well as in Serbia. As far as I can tell, we've got 757 infected by the covids today and, unfortunately, three deceased persons. The doctors have shown superhuman efforts during this period. The state has helped as much as it can and will continue, but it is up to us individually to show responsibility for this goal to deal with the child. The fight for Kosovo and Metohija is something that President Aleksandar Vukic has shown how committed he is and this is very difficult to talk about, as far as I'm concerned, because I don't know any Serbian statesman who was so committed to the fight of the Serb people living in the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. He said the goal of the new government should be to preserve vital interests, which we should all contribute to together. Alex Vukic's policy has contributed to today's view of Serbia as a country that is independent and neutral. As he said himself, we respect everything, but respect us, respect Serbia as an independent and sovereign state. As for growth in the economy, I would like to point out that the previous government has had major successes, since unemployment cuts, raised a minimum net profit to 32,000 dinars, an average salary of 510 euros. This is all that I hope the next government will work on, to improve the country's even more economic policy in these difficult moments, unlike some other governments that we remember to have destroyed the Serbian economy when they privatised businesses, failed privatisations, conducted judicial proceedings, led banks into bankruptcy, rich tycoons using their money today and their media to attack President Vukic, who is fighting all the forces for his country. I would mention the Ministry of Justice, but I think my colleague Djukanovic said very nicely, and we had a difficult time with regard to the justice ministry. We still remember and feel that year 2010 and that unfortunate reform. Little steps went forward. I expect the future minister, the minister of justice, to deal more with everything that awaits them. We have a major problem with courts, which are buried with a large number of cases, with a prosecutor's office that doesn't initiate proceedings. To oppose the mafia and all criminal acts, we need to have a good judiciary, but I also agree that the judiciary should not be a special caste and that judges should continue to choose in the Serbian Parliament. By adopting this law, I hope that next week we will choose a government that will continue the continuity and reform of the previous government, for which it has also received citizens' support in previous elections and that we will continue to create a strong and stable state for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u153	Thank you. Next on the list is Enis Imamovic. He's not here. ) The word has Serbian Filipović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u154	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished colleagues and citizens of Serbia, it is a great honor to be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a great honor to stand by this microphone, a payphone, a great honor to speak in front of this great audience, but it is an even greater responsibility of what we will do in the next four years than those words we will all say here today. Why do I say that and who we do everything for in this National Assembly? To whom will the Government of the Republic of Serbia work, which we will choose in a few days? That government will work for our children, for those children who should stay to live in this country, for those children that some have dared to try to take away their right to live, to work and to create a family in this country. For these children, for our children, who only want to achieve their right to live peacefully in this country, to have security, to have a certain tomorrow, to know what this country will look like in five, 10, 20 years and to arrange this society, to begin to create generations of young people who will be the first to not be some war generation. That's why peace, stability and certainty are important to us. That's why it was important for us in 2012, when we came to power, that we had a statesman, not a politician, because people don't trust politicians. But then when they start believing, it means they trust the statesman. In Serbia, the vast majority of people, over 60% or 70% of citizens, trust Alexander Vukic because he is a true statesman, a man who is responsible for his spoken word, a man who knows what the word means and promises when given to the people. We promised people peace, we promised people stability and they have it. We promised people a fight against tycoon, against corruption. As counterpart Mrdic said, he began bravely, as none, in the history of Serbia in 2012, 2013, in 2014, with great works, and now we have resolved, and we will all support each other together, because this is what the citizens of Serbia are asking, and for this we are responsible to our children, their future, their lives, not to mourn ourselves in this fight, to support Serbian President Alexander Vukic in the fight against the mafia, criminals, this scum of the worst who dared to hit the state of Serbia again, to show them that no one is stronger than the state, that these bastards and the bagra will no longer take away the future and will no longer be able to sell drugs freely to destroy our society. I am quite certain that if we are partners together, we will win any mafia in the Republic of Serbia that is trying to stir in it. What are we gonna do for the kids when I say we want them to stay here? We've done a lot of things, stabilized the economy, brought new investments, opened jobs, reduced unemployment, and brought it down to a record level of 7%. That's very important. When we talked to people, people always said "we need jobs, we need jobs to stay in Serbia". Today we have jobs, today Serbia is the most desirable place in the region where investors come to invest their money to create, of course, profits for themselves, and it is good for both our society and our children to stay in that country so they can have a baby, that they can create families and stay in it. Not to be the greatest wish when your child is born to watch where you're going to send him from Serbia on a map of the world, but to choose where you're going to train him in Serbia to keep what's left, to buy an apartment, to buy a house, to create a family, to stay here, to live next to you, to have someone at your age tomorrow to rely on and to have your children rely on. This is the highlight of the responsibility and I would say rescue policies for the state and for the Republic of Serbia, and certainly that policy in Serbia leads and will lead and I am confident in the future a statesman like Aleksandar Vukic with the help of all of us. Why do I tell all of us? You can't have Alexander Wolf alone. We have to be there as representatives of citizens to help him with our example, to be responsible, ready for the greatest sacrifices, ready for sacrifice, ready for daily work, ready to fight not only in the election campaign, but to spend daily time with citizens, to take people, to talk to them, to try to solve their problems wherever they appear, so that we don't find it difficult to go to the farthest village, to the family, to try to do everything in our power. And I am convinced, then the results will be good, and then we will be able to present in some next election campaign results that the population policy has produced results, that a significant number of children are born in Serbia, that even more jobs are open in Serbia, that unemployment has fallen below 7%, that salaries in 2025 have crossed those 900 euros. It can only be if we defeat the mafia, if we keep the children in Serbia, strengthen our education, education system and continue to attract new investors to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u155	Thank you. The word is Nenad Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u156	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, this proposal for a law on ministries is partially reorganising the existing structure of the ministries and the promoter has seen the reality my colleague spoke of and delegated some of the areas that need to be improved in the coming period. Those areas we're talking about here have been translated into new ministries. These are the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Family Care and Demography, as well as the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. It is these areas, which these ministries are talking about, that was the rapper, one of the rappers, which we led to support this proposal of the ministry law, so the JS parliamentary group will support this bill. When I say the rapper we've been running, it's the areas these ministries are talking about, because these are areas that talk about the essence of JS policy, which is a strong family, a strong village, social dialogue, new jobs, that is. employment and so on, and we'll see that in these ministries, everything exists. One of the serious jobs of the village's ministry is the strategic view of the village's position, which I think is a very important thing, because since the time of our former SFRY we've had a tendency to misdevelopment of the village, and in the last 20 years we have, according to the data we've received, which we've heard here, we have about 1,200 villages that have disappeared. The migration of the population, which we all know how it works, from the village to the city, away from the city and so on, is about how we have to deal with these more seriously. I come from one city, it is the town of Leskovac, which has 144 populated places and is the most dissensive municipality in Serbia. You will agree, it is a large number of rural areas and local self-government alone, without the support of such a single ministry, that it will not be able to solve these problems, especially the problems of infrastructure, and I hope that this ministry will help our city of Leskovac solve many problems, especially in southern Serbia. However, when we mention a return to the country, which is our goal, it is usually thought that it will deal only with agriculture. However, I think there is much more to the village than agriculture, which is that many can deal with water, forestry, but one thing that can be a chance for Serbia, which is rural tourism. Rural tourism is something that can bring a very large number of jobs in the coming period. And here I would now mention our President Dragan Markovic Palm, president of JS, who couldn't praise himself for opening a tourist destination yesterday, a destination in Kocino village, next to Koc's oak, and it's not just a tourist destination now, but a new six jobs. And when the kids start out with excursions coming to this new tourist destination, many locals might be able to open their own private business, so that's what's important to all of us. As for the villages themselves, we have to realize that we have more and more rural households that are huge, that we have in villages boys who are over 40 and no girl wants to come to the village and we have to fight it, because villages no longer have children to be born, we don't have elementary schools and so on. So this is a ministry that we will especially support. Speaking of which, in the case of children, the ministry that attaches itself to all of this is the Ministry of Family and Demography. Each, at least one textbook in elementary school, you can read high school to say – family is a pillar of society. And the family and it needs to be a pillar of society and we need to help the family as much as possible and economically, which is very important, to help our parents save their children, and we need to do it more seriously than we do now, because it's also Natalie's negative, as we've heard from our previous colleagues. One Serbian proverb says – happiness comes alone to a complex family. Well, let's make the Serbian family come together and that's where happiness will come itself, and to help her get along, we have a lot more to stand for. In order to leave a little time for my colleague, I will say just one more thing, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and I have an obligation to say, from one part, especially that the previous government has seen problems, and these are the problems of uncontrollably cutting the forest. We have again in southern Serbia, especially on the administrative line, major problems. The government has seen and tasked itself with repairing the damage caused by such an illegal urinary tract by 2021. If we know that illegal forest cutting is considered a criminal offense, it is another sign that it can be solved, so I assume that the government that continues this work in continuity and solves it, especially in southern Serbia, where I say that the big problem is, especially in Leskovac and the environment. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u157	Thank you. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u158	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, as I first address this call, I will take the opportunity to congratulate both the President of Parliament and the Vice-Presidents, to wish them good and successful work, with the desire to do it at least as well as the previous president and previous parliamentary leadership. They faced a number of problems. I will remind you, their task was quite difficult, often fighting violence that was not at all similar to this respected home, and the protagonists and bearers of this violence were certainly the people of the opposition political parties, and the employers of those parties, the people of the former government, above all, I think of Mr. Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic and their new pendants in the form of some Obradović, Leg and others alike. I will also take the opportunity to congratulate Serbia on the new assembly of this largest legislative and constitutional body, but not only Serbia, to congratulate all our people, above all in the region, but also to all our people in the world. In fact, long ago, the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian government stopped being parliament and government only those living within the borders of the Republic of Serbia, long ago they became an institution and political representation of all our people living in the environment. Here, above all, I mean the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, but also that part of our people living in Croatia, Hungary, Northern Macedonia, Romania and all over the world. However, one institution has become bigger than all of them and all Serbs in Serbia and the region and around the world have started to consider it, respecting certainly the institutions of the countries in which they live, their institution, which is the institution of the President of the Republic. When I say long ago I think of a period of a few years ago, I mean that crucial historical moment when Serbia and its policies were taken over in 2014 by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. It was a crucial historic moment when the concern of our countrymen in the region and the concern of the diaspora ceased to be a burden. I'll remind you, she often cared about our countrymen and the concern of diaspora was also a burden, but very often and worse than that she was undesirable. All this will change rapidly in 2014 when the government heads up, I will remind you, today's president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, when Serbs from the region in the government in Belgrade get their first foothold and when they start sharing good and evil with the same government and those same people. Serbs from the region begin to share and fail, i.e. the difficulties and sorrows of Serbia, but begin to share both successes and joys. Fortunately in this period, Serbia will somehow go towards successes mainly and Serbia will look forward to it. The highest credit for this will certainly be the progenitor of the policy that Serbia is leading today, which will be today's president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic. It was a hell of a hard job in which he had the support of both this parliament and the SNS, but I will be honest, most importantly, he had the support of our people in Serbia and the environment. It will be a job in which he was obliged to return Serbia, a defeated country, to its place of employment, to return it to its place of origin. to the pedestal of the regional leader, to return Serbia from a fully unemployed country to a country where labour is lacking, a country that with 25% unemployment comes into the situation that has a single-digit unemployment rate and at one point even to 8%. A real Serbia often returns 80% of the total GDP to a level of 50%, which is envied by those countries that have much more stable and tighter public finances. Alexander Vukic, in that period, is making a country that has a very strong army and a seriously strong police force, a real country of highways, factories, projects. These successes at the time are enjoyed by all our countrymen in the region, above all in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, and these successes and these joys are slowly spilling over to all our people in the region. The figures are exact and are the best indicator of what the president then is doing, both the Prime Minister and the president of the state, and in recent years alone in the Republika Srpska Republic of Serbia has invested around 30m euros in various projects. You've seen announcements and plans that will overshadow that impressive number in the coming years. You can't fool people. The people's response came in the last elections, and it will turn out that Aleksandar Vukic, SNS and the list he is leading, on average, enjoys the most in Republika Srpska. In recent elections, the list will win an enviable number of votes in polling stations across Republika Srpska, and that will be the percentage number of votes it wins in some local areas. In Trebinj, the SNS list will win 85%, in Mostar 75%, in Sarajevo 81%, in Banja Luka 85%, in Drvar, in Visegrad 95%, in Doboj 94%, in Bratunc 88%, in Bijeljina 87%, in Zvornik 94% and in Prijedor 88%. This is a serious recognition of what the president of the state is doing in the previous period, but also a serious commitment to continue to do with him what has been done over the past six years. I am sure that both the new government and the structure, set up in the way that it proposed on behalf of our parliamentary group, our distinguished colleague Aleksandar Martinovic, will continue this way and that all these ministries, using all the rights stemming from international agreements, will continue to co-operate with the Republic of Serbia, but also with Montenegro and other countries, or other communities, our communities in other countries in the environment. I'm sure the results will be the same when, together with the president, a clean cheek, and with the results, we go to the national court and in 2022 in April. Finally, as you know, the SNS and its MPs will certainly support the proposal to establish a new government structure and, of course, the mandater with his personal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u159	Thank you. The word is from the MP Selma Kučević, but as far as I can tell, she's not here. Next is Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today a very important law – a draft law on ministries. Indeed, this law provides for something that was needed, which is a partial reorganisation of the ministries that have so far been governed by the current Ministry Act. With this law, once again, the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the proposings, above all SNS, show that they work responsibly and exclusively in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is the ministry that will be formed, meaning that the ministry of human and minority rights and social dialogue, then the Ministry of Family and Demography and the ministry of village care, speak of the fact that the SNS shows that policy it represented when it was an opposition party and because of which citizens have given it confidence in it in 2012, but have continued to give that confidence in an ever greater number since 2012. All these years, we have shown that Serbian citizens believe the policies of Alexander Vukic and SNS and hence huge support from the election to the elections. As my colleague Christmas said today, on June 21st, 2020, in the held SNS elections, she received support and we thought it was one historic support. Today, however, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have even more support for citizens, all research shows this because of the fight and the plots of Mr Vukic and his unwavering behaviour and that despite the attacks by those who ruled until 2012 and those who destroyed and robbed the state, despite all the attacks on him and his most recent family, he resists and continues to fight and work in the interests of Serbian citizens. What I can stress on this occasion is that, on the happiness of all citizens, you know that in 2012, we found one disastrous situation, not only in health, not only in the economy, in all structures, just SNS policy, Mr. Vukic, has managed to get us back on a stable path and bring us back to one healthy foot, and now those who have destroyed Serbia to take the place again, parliament by force, not as parliament wins, in elections, but by force to enter here and rule. On this occasion, I would like to tell them that they will not be able to do so, because the citizens have assessed and know that this handful of scum will not be able to take this home, as it was taken on October 5, 2000. We have shown that we are united stronger and that united we can do anything and that we will continue to fight and work in the interests of the citizens. As a doctor, I would add that I am proud of the health system of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all that has been done in previous years, but especially now during the pandemic and the vicious KOVID-19 virus, because even more developed countries have failed to fight and you know that many patients have died because of the lack of respirators. It is a statesman, as Mr. Vucic has provided many respirators thanks to his reputation in the world, and we all must be grateful for his involvement because he has shown that the interest of the state is first, and just the last days when this parliament is formed, but also when it will be formed in the coming days, the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows that the interest of the state is above all, and not some partic interests. On this occasion, I would like to stress that the SNS will support these laws and that we will continue to fight exactly as the President of the Republic and the President of our party does and that we will all continue to fight together for better and advanced Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u161	Thank you. The next is on Zagorka Aleksic's list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u162	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, it is an honor to have the opportunity to speak for the first time in this honored home. As our president has already said, the JS parliamentary group will support the draft ministry law. An increase in the number of ministries in the Serbian government alone, the reorganisation of the existing structure is necessary and important, not only because of Serbia's international reputation but primarily because of citizens, and especially vulnerable categories of this society. The European Commission's latest report, which has already been discussed here, states among other things that the institutional and legislative framework for respect for basic rights in Serbia has been achieved. that it already exists, but that its proper application must be provided. Just because Serbia will educate a special ministry that will deal with human and minority rights and social dialogue, we show that we are a mature and democratic society. In these times of crisis, I mean the time of the pandemic facing the whole world, it takes compromise, but it also requires the best solutions. We will improve the space for broader dialogue with all relevant political factors of this society, with the civil sector and with all citizens, because only by continuing listening to their will and need will our work be meaningful. What is particularly important to us from JS is the formation of a ministry of care for family and demographics and the ministry of rural care. Citizens are aware that JS, led by Mr. Dragan Markovic, has a recognizable social programme. It involves concrete stimuli and measures to combat the white plague, to help the most endangered, to create new jobs, to take care of a farmer, in general for a human policy that takes care of a man from birth to age. Since its establishment, our party has been pushing for the establishment of a family care ministry and our president has spoken on many occasions about it and that is what makes us particularly happy. What we hope for is that the future family ministry, of course, in collaboration with other relevant resolution ministries, will focus in particular on the problem of solving peer violence which is a major problem for this society and over which we cannot close our eyes. Systemic solutions are needed for this problem, and we will agree that the role of the state is crucial. Today we are also talking about the new Ministry of Agriculture. I will briefly look back on yesterday, which my colleague Filipovic was already talking about. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, a historic-tourism complex opened at the initiative of the president of JS in Koc's village near Jagodina, near the oak of Captain Angelkovic, a man who is a symbol of the start of a fight for the liberation of the Turks. A complex with facilities for entertainment and culture was built there in a small Serbian maritime village. Yet I am told about the Serb village leads to another topic, which is the topic of gender equality. Why? We have made significant progress when gender equality and the position of women are at stake and we have to keep talking about it and work on it, but we have to bear in mind that women in urban, urban environments are always easier to shade because they are simply informed and all of their rights. Are the ladies and gentlemen of the Serb village equal? Does she know enough of her rights? Does he know no one can beat her? Women in the country report violence in a very small number. Is the woman in the Serbian village economically strong? Does he know they can apply for a subsidy to agriculture? The state of Serbia has encouraged the economic empowerment of women in the country and we expect it to continue in this very manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u163	Zagorka, I have to interrupt you for time's sake. The theme is so important, it doesn't turn out that I have something against the subject...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u164	All right, I'll be done real quick. Women in the country are also very quiet, it is unfortunately the same part of our tradition, but not the positive, cultural, historical, which I have spoken of for a while, it is already the traditionality of roles, and these are not the traditions and patterns that we are propagating and that we stand for, and Serbia is on the way to break up with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u165	Thank you, Zagorka. I have to correct you, when I warn you, I don't end up fast, but you end up right now. So you're done with the discussion. Once again, it is about strict respect for the rules, as far as anyone has, and I really ask you to keep that in mind, that this is not about any subjective criteria, but just because we are equal, because time is determined on the basis of the number of MPs. There's always a certain dose of tolerance, but not too much. Thank you, Ljiljani Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk today about the ministry law, but before I go to the presentation, I really need to look at the basic goals that the new government has to implement. It's a great honor and responsibility to be here today and not just today, I'm saying that because of these young people, they got a chance and I wish them good luck. I want to congratulate them on that, they must have done something good for this party and for this country, but I hope that we will all be responsible and come up with new goals by working together. The first and primary objective of the new government is to care for the health of citizens. You know that Kovid has taken the bait, the Republic of Serbia is still fighting the best, as far as the region is concerned, I would say not only the region, but the whole of Europe, but this government has the task of taking care of every citizen. Not only that, I must point out that it ends in Batajnica by New Year's Eve Kovid Hospital with a capacity of 300 seats for intensive care. Not only in Batajnica, but also in Krushevec. That's how it's done, that's how the government's responsible works. The second goal, my Kosovo, is not mine, but our Kosovo, the heart of Serbia, the most important task is the fight for the interests of the Serbian people and Serbia at KIM. We fight together. Third objective, fighting corruption and crime. They've kind of released a lot of tentacles, and we're gonna break it all up. It's a shame. Whoever loves this country will work honestly and honestly, will not deal with crime and corruption. Fantastic results have been obtained by Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who cut down crime, however, something new is constantly being born and we must all be together. Then, the fourth goal, independent decision-making, especially with regard to military policy, should be to know our political option is the EU, neutrality is military, foreign policy is to decide for ourselves. As for this, thanks to the president of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, we have remained an extremely respectable country in the world, which could be seen in both the east and the west. Then, accelerated reforms and ultimately further growth in the Serbian economy. To go back to today's topic, it's the ministry law, we know there were 18 ministries in the previous government, three more days, and we'll choose a new government. Now there will be 21 ministries and three new ministries, primarily the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, then the Ministry of Family Care and Demography and the Ministry of Agriculture. Great, the capital line for all of this is – there will be no special separation from the Republic of Serbia's budget, why? Because we're taking money from the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, as well as the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, because some of the resolutions were just dealing with these ministries that we're talking about today. We don't take everything, take human resources, take rights, take obligations, materials and resources. So that people know, so we're not opening new jobs, we're simply making three new ministries that will deal with these problems much more effectively. It's very important when we talk about family, it's nationality in Serbia, I have to say, unfortunately, mortality is greater than birth and it must never happen again. We have passed strong laws from 2012 to 2020, and as far as procreation is concerned, about the rule of law, about protecting the family. We have brought the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia first of all, its entire second chapter is dedicated to human and minority rights and freedoms through 64 of its members. The Law on the Prohibit of Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement within a reasonable period of time, the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Law on National Councils of Minorities and a number of other laws, of course, would add the Law on Support and Finance of the Family and Children, the Law on Out-of-body Insemination and many others. Let's just remember the Law of Financial Support for Family and Children, that's the thing. For the first child, a one-time aid of 100,000 dinars and not only that, but thanks to this government, the prime minister, we have made a good program and not just a program, but we are networked everywhere, so the mother no longer has to bother to go to the municipality, to the Centre for Social Work, but as she leaves the maternity ward gets all the necessary documentation for the baby. Then, for another child stimulant for two years at a monthly level of 10,000 dinars. For a third child stimulant at a monthly level of 10 years per 12,000 dinars and for a fourth child for 10 years stimulant 18,000 at a monthly level. We're going to do a lot of projects to help young people in every way possible, we do. Young couples have far more opportunities to get apartments. Faster employment, much faster. Let's just remember in 2008 and employment, there were 250,000 or 300,000 people unemployed. In 2008, 200,000 people were fired, with 26.5% unemployment. Today is the historic minimum, 7.5% with all the Coroners. That's how it works. Then, the Law on Out-of-body Insemination, three out-of-body fertilizations were allowed. The new law – as many times as young couples want it. That's good. As for the support of the village, our village was quite devastated by 2012. I'm not saying we've done much, but we work all the time and we do good. We're making roads to some villages where they didn't have electricity, not roads. We're doing infrastructure, villages aren't what they used to be. I have information that a lot of young people decide to live in the country, to deal with livestock and to deal with agriculture. That's right. We all saw how it worked for Kovid when he showed up in other countries. We have a terrible system, we have the help of young people. The mass of my friends has returned. Why? Because they were supposed to give 10, 20, 50,000 euros for treatment. For every respect and congratulations to all our doctors. It should be responsible, I ask all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to wear masks. We all wear masks here, only when I speak. No, maybe I should have kept my mask and wanted to get out of this pandemic as protected as possible. I'd just like to say two more, three words about the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. When this ministry, when we pass the law, opens up, we automatically close the Office of Human and Minority Rights and the Office for Co-operation with Civil Society. Of course no one's going to be out of a job, we're taking full resources, materials, absolutely everything, so none of these people should worry. Thank you for your attention, there's a lot to be said here, but there are other speakers, so I'd like to thank you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u168	The Honored Chairman, honourable MPs, of course, respected citizens, are in line with the challenges facing Serbia, the situation in our society, President Vukic and Prime Minister Brnabic have proposed three extraordinary new ministries. So, the Ministry of Family Care and the Ministry of Agriculture are fully connected. They are linked by themes of demographics, discharges, regional development, ultimately and family. So, all of the shortcomings that these two ministries need to cover, it's all gotta be fixed and it's gonna be fixed, so it's all raised to a higher level, to the level of the ministry. So, family, parenting, offspring, concepts such as children, father, mother, these are traditional and unconquered and noble values that provide healthy society, demographic vitality of the people, which show respect for their ancestors' heritage and enable healthy and unobstructed generations in Serbia. As for human rights, Serbia is a champion in respect of human rights. The proof of this is a relationship, at least a decade long, full of respect for all minorities in Serbia, and towards minorities, of course, is a policy of positive discrimination and the highest euro standards are respected. What is remarkable is that in the name of the ministry of human and minority rights is included in the syntagma - social dialogue. So, the SNS and its governments and President Vukic always provide a hand of friendship to even those who do not deserve it. The dialogue should be conducted even with the opposition's extreme jilasian parties, as was the case at the Faculty of Political Sciences. However, we must realise that it is very difficult to have a dialogue with those who will not, with those who advocate a violent change of government in blood, with those who advocate hangings and rapes and who bestially threaten and insult President Vukic's family. Serbia's advanced party, I've been involved in politics for 30 years, I've never seen a more tolerated, more peaceful and modest party and what's for social compromise. Now I'm going to move on to something else, but the SNS is uncompromising against the mafia and crime. Now I will briefly say something about these two goals, the second and the third, which President Vukic has set before both this Parliament and all the ministries and the entire government. So, Kosovo and Metohija, no one in the last hundred years if you look at a trail of historic events related to Kosovo and Metohija, no one has done so much for Kosovo and Metohija in the last hundred years as President Vukic and SNS. As someone who has been involved in politics for 30 years, I can tell you that the SNS has not been in power since 2012, Kosovo and Metohija today, i.e. Kosovo's fake state would now be a member of the UN, and Albanians would at some point renegotiate as the one in 2004. We stopped it all from happening. Today, Serbs in Kosovo can live peacefully, can sleep peacefully and live much better than they did before 2012. As far as Objective Three is concerned, it's a fight against the Mafia. We all know that President Vukic dealt with the tycoon mafia seven years ago. Of course, it will continue and continue and the fight against classical crime always continues. However, the fight against the political mafia, the fight against the tycoon mafia, is much more difficult than the fight against classical crime. What's a mob? Was the mob that tycoon politician who had so much wealth in three years' time, one of whom was the mayoral office he performed for five years? To get so rich that his company's income was a net income of 619m euros, and its net profit was 106m euros. Is that the mob? It's the mob. Are the mob fascists who attacked this assembly in July trying to carry out a coup, to re-burn the assembly, is that the mob? It's the mob. They hurt 130 cops. In the end, the SNS always has in mind what Oscar Davicho said about Serbia – I know all your faces, everyone you want, what you wear, I look at all your eyes, I understand what they say, what they hide, and then that motive – oh, Serbia among the plums, among the fields. Thank you, Serbia has lived.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u169	Thank you, Mr. Copper, for your inspiring speech. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u170	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I missed last time to thank all my fellow Members of Parliament who were in the last meeting, and now they are no longer Members of Parliament and to wish them first and foremost good health and success in some new functions and new jobs. Regardless of the circumstances and whatever our discussions, no matter what they did, no matter what they did, no matter what they wait for on the steps of the National Assembly, they can't stop me by beating me. I recommend that if they want to do it again, next time they bring a rifle, but I wish them good health, mostly mentally. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying, I think it was De Gaulle – it is more important to regulate the state than to rule it. If I was wrong in the quote, I apologize, but I think there are two sources, I think De Gaulle is the real source. Why do I say that? Because we are determined not to serve the state but to serve the state. I have an attitude not to defend power but to the state and its right to grow every day. I'd rather be punished for my loyalty to the state than for giving me a reward. It is a message to all those who hope to come to power by force with the help of the outside. This law is a law on state regulation. The state is a community of people. The state is a community that needs to protect its people, but also people need to protect their country, all of them, whether they're on the side of the government or on the side of the opposition. It is the programmes that need to make a difference and it is the exchange of views that should identify citizens to whom to trust in public affairs in the next elections. It is obvious that the citizens who took advantage of the electoral right have done so, and some help has been given to those who did not benefit from the right to vote. We who have found a completely crippled, broken state, without a chance for the present and future generations know that GDP is billions greater than it was. We know that export coverage has increased to almost 75 to 80%. We know inflation is five times lower, or lower. We know that the euro course has been still for nine years. Imagine, even in the former Yugoslavia, which may have been stronger economically, the course could not rest for eight, nine years, could not rest for a year, two days. Imagine that in just a few years, the exchange rate from 78 went to 117. And today they're objecting to us from the economy. A state without economy is a car without an engine. That car can hardly go. But a state without investment, even if it has an engine, can't go. Investments are fuel that needs to be added over and over again, and we all need to make the state of Serbia economically strong. Remember the military power of Dragan Sutanovac, Dragan Dilas and Mr Tadic. The army was weaker than a hunting society. It was the minor family of the Pere Clumsy. Let's think of a MiG without a battery. Today Serbia's military power is tens and tens of times greater because the army is stronger than it was. That's what we did because we watched the state edit. We're not just raising roads and infrastructure. I did it in India from 2001 to 2007. Today, Aleksandar Vukic and Serbia's leadership and all of us are working on the same case, but in all of Serbia's territory, to build infrastructure and parallel to raise investment and production, to have what to drive and export along these roads and that infrastructure. Let me remind you that today, exports from India are worth over 500m euros. At the time I did it, they laughed. Today, only Group exports 208m euros. It is the economy that will make the state strong, but also the style. The fact that we are politically different is not the reason why what makes us an out-of-parliamental opposition does it every day. But let me look back at some new ministries. I live in the country until 2012 you rarely had a farm here in the National Assembly. My term of office ended in 2004 in 2012. The SNS decided to take a small party into the coalition and since then I've been regular here in the National Assembly, I've almost earned a tenant's right, based on the time I've spent in this National Assembly. I was president of the Agriculture Committee in two terms. I must say that the economic power of any country will soon not be measured by the amount of gold and diamonds it produces, but by the amount of food and drinking water. For this reason, I also appreciate that on my initiative and some other MPs, the level of incentives in the euro is twice as high as it was by 2012, on an annual basis. But I don't think that's enough either, because the subsidies in the environment are much bigger than in Serbia, three to five times the subsidies, but these are countries that had a stronger economy, which didn't have a Democratic Party to leave them a country without a chance. So, I think your incentives need to increase. Our first concern is that this year, we are all committed to obtaining the additional funds that will naturally be pumped into agriculture, because it is not lost money, that is, the money that agriculture will do, that is to be paid multiplely through the processing industry and the processing industry, which is growing in Serbia year after year. I appreciate that we now have the Ministry of Agriculture. The average age in the country is 61 years old. Nearly a thousand settlements threaten to disappear. Worst of all, they are populated places along Serbia's borders along the administrative lines. If that part of Serbia is emptied, because the issue of agriculture and the village is no longer just a matter of agriculture, but of demographics and security, if that part of Serbia is emptied, some other peoples will settle, and Kosovo and Metohija are the best example of how territory can be lost, i.e. to win over children's cradles. I appreciate that it's gonna be the Ministry of Environmental Care, and I like to have someone take care of us, but what I'd like to do, and I'm shutting myself down, so that the future minister is settled in the country, that his closest associates and relatives live in the country, because that's how he'll feel the best problems if you live there. I, who live in the country, exclude myself as another thing I'm going to say from such a species because I don't have that kind of ambition from that kind of humane solution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a plant potential that we're not using enough. We need livestock and processing industry. We also need the energy from agriculture, that what agriculture produces, meat, milk and eggs, when we use that potential, that we also have the energy to process all of this and then we're going to get no exports of 2.7 billion from agriculture, but these exports are going to be three or four times bigger. Our plant potential is exported and used for the livestock of other countries. Our average throat conditioned per hectare is 0.33, a European one, which means that at the moment we can arrive we can still have twice as much cattle as we have right now, which would be about three billion more conditional throats in figures, which would be worth three billion euros unprocessed, and a minimum of processing would guarantee six billion euros. Energy that can be produced, and renewable, it can be processed, and then it's a multiple benefit. With that money, we'd be happy with our cattlemen and our processors. We need to go that way, that our plant potential is being used by our cattlemen, our processors. It's my message to forward to the Minister of Agriculture when it's on the agenda of the government law. Let me say, let me finish some more sayings. Gete said – to have more we need to be something more. Well, let's think about it. Even if I were to quote, as a believer, a religious chief, whom I find immensely dear, the patriarch Paul – in order for us to be better, we must be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u171	Thank you too, Mr. Risticevic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u172	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, today is a very important day for our Assembly, for our country, and not only because this law will establish some three new ministries, but because the adoption of this law shows the ruling majority again that it is ready to fight day by day for the interests of Serbian citizens wherever they live, whatever problem they face, any religion, any national minority that they belong. What is very important is the fact that we have heard many speakers today and that those who have criticised this law have not even qualified to listen to all the speakers, but when they said all that was written to them in advance, they left this congregation hall. The same case was Thursday. This shows how ready someone is to really participate in the work of the Assembly, how ready he is to essentially fight for Serbia's better life. My colleagues covered every topic. A lot of things have been said, and I'm going to try to stick to the essence and say what I feel deep inside and think. A colleague, Rističević, told about the village, about its closest topic. I must admit that although I was born in Belgrade, my parents did not. My father was born in Vrbas, my mother was born in a small place next to Vlad's Han, which is called Paul, and since some of the earliest years I've had the opportunity to see the problems facing people living in the country and dealing with agriculture. From these earlier days, I realized how much the village was in big trouble and how dependent it is on agriculture. Our colleague, and former minister, Mr. Nedimovic, has done a lot. Subsidies, incentives, various reliefs for agricultural people have improved the country's life, but we are aware that it is not enough and we are aware that it is not enough just to provide something for these people in the country to be able to handle agriculture more easily. You have to allow them to have both electricity and water and sewerage, to have that home of culture and to have places where young people will gather there. Here we come to what President Aleksandar Vucic said, which is "Serbia 2025" which implies that we no longer have a single home in our country where we will not have a sewer. In the previous period, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the next responsible policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, has done a lot of things on this plan, but as responsible people who have received the historic support of Serbian citizens, we are aware that we must not get involved and we are aware that we have a huge responsibility for the people who voted for us, but also for those who did not vote for us. By adopting this law, we want to show that we are ready to deal with the problems facing our citizens as much as possible, that we are more committed and comprehensively involved. When we talk about the law, i.e. on the Ministry of Human, Minority and Social Dialogue, I am sorry, again, that the representatives of the national minorities who have criticised this just for criticism and who are serving as a stage for petty calculation and collection of cheap political points are not in the room to hear and to explain to us in an argument what this is about, why they are against this. It seems to me, listening to them, that I didn't get the same material that they got. There is talk of a plan, of certain human resources solutions, of what will be concrete, but I cannot understand that people who are seriously involved in politics and take the parliamentary mandate seriously cannot understand that the formation of these three new ministries is only the first step in accomplishing the tasks assigned and accomplishing everything that is written in this proposal. I can't understand that they don't understand that the adoption of this law is just the foundation of the house we're going to build together. If we're talking about dialogue, I have to point out another fact that none of the people in the Assembly room today, representing the SNS, have ever run away from dialogue. He never ran away from dialogue, nor did President Aleksandar Vukic, nor did the ministers, nor did the prime minister. No one has ever hid from a difficult question or a challenge, but we also need to be aware, and I am sorry that few people mentioned it during today's session, for dialogue it takes two, or for dialogue it takes two sides. Let's be honest with ourselves, no matter which party we belong to and look ourselves in the eye and say when someone from SNS hasn't responded to any conversation, some dialogue, some panel. In this hall are the people who responded and the panel that was organized at the Faculty of Political Sciences, where they were presented not with requests, but with blackmail, where only a reason was sought to get them high and to go out and leave those negotiations. To make the paradox even bigger, this click, which represents nothing more than the decomposed DS regime, depicted by now imaginary leader Dragan Gilas, appeared on one panel, let the participants of the document, asking me to adopt all the requirements that are put before them. When my colleagues in the SNS asked them where those demands were, what were those points. They didn't even have those demands and points. They looked at each other, saw each other, and left that meeting. So, it is not a problem in the SNS as you can see today that SNS MPs are sitting in this House and are ready to discuss every issue. As far as I'm concerned, I've always advocated dialogue within institutions, dialogue within parliament, because it belongs to him. I don't have many years, but I have 11 years of experience in parliament at different levels, from municipal to cityal, and now, thank God and this republican, and I can't understand that it's more interesting for someone to conduct their dialogue on the street with violence than to come to elections, to win a certain number of votes here and here in parliament to represent the citizens who voted for him, but also to represent the policy he represents. It is regrettable that Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, and this recent MP, Bosko Obradovic, have been replaced by sticks in their dialogue. The arguments were replaced by stones, and the dialogue that had to be conducted in institutions, reasonably, passed on to the streets where they fought with traffic signs, attacked this institution, tried to tear it down, burned it down, and injured more than 130 police officers in their wild pirates. So it's not a problem with SNS and it's never going to be. I am particularly pleased that all associations, all organisations, representatives of civil society and representatives of the public and private sector are also highlighted here. This will allow us to have the widest possible dialogue and that all together as one team playing only for Serbia, for no one else, we do something good for the citizens of Serbia, because of the interest of the Serbian citizens there is nothing in our SNS. When dialogue is in the interest of Serbian citizens, this dialogue is always good wherever it was conducted, however long it lasted, with whoever you're taking it with. If this is in the interest of the citizens, you must lead it and you must stand behind this dialogue. As for the dialogue and the story of discrimination, I must be honest that I am proud to be in the parliamentary group that I belong to, the SNS parliamentary group of extraordinary ladies, smart, capable, capable and committed to their work, which I must admit sometimes will not be angry with, at times even more passionately, fighting for Serbia's interests. I am proud that in the previous period we have also been one of the few countries that, on two of the three key functions in the country, had ladies. It was Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, whom I did not have the opportunity to thank for last session, to show her one great respect, one great thank you, because she managed to fight her intellectual abilities, but also to be patient with people who constantly gave her both mental, so rich and physical violence. To thank her for her success in preserving the dignity of this home, but to God, to preserve the will and electoral right of citizens who clearly decided that they wanted to be led by the Serbian Progressive Party. I am convinced that in the next period and in the next week, we will choose some other ladies who will justify this trust, and as we have so far carried our responsibility and manage to help the citizens of Serbia that we are all making a better place to live together, because sometimes, we men, want to accept it or not, the pillar of every house or every family is a woman. Speaking of family, we're also getting attached to a third ministry that honestly from my corner and my favorite heart, because as much as people want to do it on the side of nowhere, the pillar of every strong country, every strong state, every healthy country, is a family. If we don't have a strong family, a healthy family, we certainly won't have a strong country. My colleagues before me brought out the data and I must point out that since 2018, the incentives given by the state have been enormous and historic. Someone here called on the reports of the Republic Statistics Institute and I'm sorry he didn't mention that in 2019, we had nearly 600 babies more compared to 2018. This shows that the incentives given by the state have begun to produce results somewhere. What is very important to me is the fact that a family as a pillar of every society must be respected. I'm sorry that the on-call critics who criticise everything, even if they know or don't know what they're talking about, are those people who have ruined not only Serbia, but also the City of Belgrade. As someone who is head of a parliamentary group in the Serbian Progressive Party Assembly, I am close to the topic, and Mr Djukanovic has just said that Dragan Djilas has left us a billion and 200 million debts behind. But there's one more thing you need to know, in the city of Belgrade, that same man damaged 15,000 families because he charged them double for kindergartens. These debts are now being paid back by the city government. That's how he looked after family and children. At that time, the kindergartens covered only 44,000 children. The waiting lists were abnormal. Today we have 77,000 children in kindergartens, plus the city government will build as many as 17 new kindergartens in the next three years, and that way we'll get rid of the waiting list. All that I have now presented are the facts and data that I believe you have met many times, but what I want to say for the very end, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, anyone representing the former regime of the Democratic Party, their chance to do something for our country have had and haven't taken advantage of. Moreover, they have brought us to the brink of destruction, to the detriment of the citizens, and have become one of the richest people in Europe. That's enough, and that's enough. I am convinced that this assembly as well as the adoption of this law, the formation of a new government next week, will only be a continuation of the continuity of the Serbian Progressive Party's responsible policy, which means what President Aleksandar Vukic points out all the time, and this is better tomorrow for all our children, for generations to come, for all our citizens, better tomorrow for our Serbia. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u173	Thank you. Before we go any further, brief information remains for the debate for the 90-minute parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u174	Thank you. Dear chairman, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would first congratulate everyone here on the mandate, on the responsibility of the citizens. Today, we will talk about the proposal of three new ministries within the future government, the proposal of our parliamentary group, which is a sign that in the new mandate, in the new government, we will have three new ministries, we will have the opportunity to put a much greater emphasis on those things that concern all of us who come from both the south and the north, from all parts of Serbia. By the way, I've been back six years, started, and now I'm going to start. I'm Milletic. I come from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, but it is one of the poorest municipalities in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia, but since there is a multi-party city, it has a wife for the mayor, Dragan Styrovska, who, I'm sure, will have more power and the opportunity to restore Nis to a brighter and better future. One thing that is certain is that Mayor Nisa is the most beautiful mayor in both Serbia and beyond Serbia's borders. By the way, I was elected from the Serbian Progressive Party list, "Alexander Vukic - for our children" and represent the United Peasants' Party whose president I am. Here, in the National Assembly, I will speak in the people's period and present problems concerning us coming from small areas, us coming from rural areas, us coming from southeastern Serbia, because as my colleague, Marijan Risticevic, said just before, the big problem is in the country, the big problem is in southeastern Serbia, because it is not the same who lives in Svrlig, Beli Palanca, Gajino Han, Babusnica, or someone who lives near Belgrade, near Novi Sad or another center. Believe me, people, in southeastern Serbia, it's much harder to live, especially in these small communities of ours in municipalities like I just said, as municipalities where I come from, it's much harder to live there, and in villages it's even harder. Therefore, our future government, which we will vote and support, will be given the responsibility to work in the interest of all of us, but with an emphasis on undeveloped areas, in mountainous areas, in rural areas. I've always spoken from the heart, and now I'm going to talk from the heart here, there are a number of fellow Members or MPs who are here for the first time, I tell them and I recommend - speak from the heart, talk about all those things that are happening to you, in your community, in your community, because the most important thing is that here in the Assembly we are the ones who have to tell us what the problem is with us, in our communities, which is the problem in our county, the region, and from here it's that the government, the competent ministries get the task to solve these problems. Once again, as far as this ministry of ours, the new ministry, taking care of the village, Mr. Marian just said the same thing, and I support it. It would be good for a future minister in the government who will have the task of leading that ministry to have a sense of problems in the country, to have a sense of how people live in the country, and that these problems feel on themselves, that his associates are the same people who know what the problems in the country are, like, in one of my villages, and that's the village of Pluzina, where in another village, where, believe me, there's no water, where there's a weak current, where there's no healthcare worker, there's no infirmary, where tomorrow whoever wants to return there's not a strong enough signal for the Internet that people can communicate, that they follow all things. These are all the elements that we have to talk about, and this new ministry and those people who run that ministry or that minister, they have to feel it on their skin. For it is said to us: "A man's hand is not scratched by itch. "That's what we need to talk about here and in the next period, normally, to solve our problems. The health care of our people living in the country. A few weeks ago, I had the opportunity to be on one national television where I was with my mother. My mother is 77 years old and it may not matter to anyone right now, but I just want to say that at any moment my mother can get to a doctor to heal herself, but she has a large number of our mothers, grandparents, who live in some villages, and there are large numbers of people living in some villages that don't have someone to help them. Therefore, health care, social protection, geronto-homewives are all elements that tomorrow, in that village, when we ensure that people can live there, that even someone can come back and that they can normalize it, because the Ministry of Agriculture provides enough funds, through subsidies, and thus the Ministry helps our agricultural producers. The great need for us is this ministry that we're talking about right now, about family and demographics. Family is the basic cell of our society, and we should always talk about family full of heart. On the other hand, all of our families living in our villages, whether it's two, three or more of them, these people have to have the same opportunity to work there, to live there, to have through the program that the state gives that they can compete, to get funds and to stay there to live. The most important thing about demographics is that through the stimulation given by the state, I was also the president of the municipality in my place, in Srlig, where we allocated funds from the budget to every newborn child, unemployed maternity, for the marriage community, but we created a difference for those people living in the country, they received 50% more funds than for those living in Srlig. I think it's a big deal for all of us to be here in the Assembly, and in the next period, the government that works, there's a difference for those who live in the village, in undeveloped areas, in mountainous areas, and there's a difference for those who live in larger centres and cities. The great need is to have a category of people, i.e. women in the village was almost October 15th, when there was a world day of women in the country, but I repeatedly argued that there was a category – children living in the country. Because children living in the country are not the same as children living in the city. For this reason, once again, I truly fully support the government and President Alexander Vukic, because I know that what we are doing now will make a contribution to our people staying in our villages, in our municipalities, to keep our people in Serbia, to put an accent on women in the country, on children in the country and on all people in our Serbia. Once again, I will vote in favour of this bill and support all these bill proposals, because I think that's what's necessary. For the first time there is a need, for the first time there is one ministry that provides care for the village.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u175	Thank you. Next reported is MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u176	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all I would like to welcome you all and say that, as someone who is first speaking to me from this place and whose first parliamentary term is a great honor and pleasure to have the opportunity to address you from the pay phone of this high house and that I am 250th part of the national sovereignty in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I want to point out that I also feel a huge responsibility, above all, towards those citizens who have made it possible for me to be here today and to address you and to say that I will try to justify the trust that they and my party have shown me. I'm not gonna do too much work on the results. The results are behind us and we have received historic and huge support from citizens of the Republic of Serbia in previous elections based on these results. This support is a reward for good work, but it pushes and commits to an even greater engagement of all, because we have the opportunity to do even better things for our country with hard and hard work. I must say that I am pleased that Ana Brnabic is the prime minister for the formation of the new government and I believe that she will continue the continuity of good work, because in the previous four years she has shown by her efforts, work and energy the government of the Republic of Serbia. In those four years, Serbia has really achieved good results. At the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have the largest economic growth in Europe. And that's not what we say, that's what relevant international institutions say. We have the lowest unemployment rate in history, continued wage and pension growth, miles and miles of new highways and railways. This is all the result of the hard work of a team made up of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia. The bill announced the formation of a new Ministry of Family and Demography. I believe that most of you agree that the family is a pillar and a foundation of every society, and that children and young people are the future of every country and nation. That is why it is very important that in this meeting, the voice of young people will be heard more than before in this assembly, because on our list alone we have so many young people whose first term is this and whose first appearance is in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the state will invest a lot in youth. I will remind you that the National Investment Project "Serbia 20-25" has identified as much as 700 million to support young people. It's a struggle for young couples to get a roof over their heads, to start working early, to start having kids early, so we don't lose a whole generation. There's money to increase financial contributions for newborn children, there's subsidies for kindergartens, for biomedical assisted fertilisation, for helping mothers in every aspect of pregnancy and childbirth. There is a better life in Serbia, and it will live better. Therefore, we must maintain peace and stability at all costs and be worthy, smart and responsible. Together, we must build a better future for Serbia, which will look better and better and where its citizens and our children will be incomparably happier than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u177	Thank you, Mr. Srbanovic, for the time-efficient but effective exposure content. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what gives the right to support this Law on the Ministry is that the law sees a continuity that the future government, whatever ministers they are, will have with all previous governments since 2014 and continue the reform processes initiated by the then Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic. However, I cannot help but mention the state in which we found Serbia in 2012 and 2014. Unfortunately, in 2014, the Republic of Serbia suffered a second natural disaster in the face of major floods that hit Serbia with infrastructure that hasn't been stockpiled for decades to defend against these floods, but that first elemental human disaster has done much more damage to the Republic of Serbia than it did to the catastrophic floods in 2014. I would just like to remind my fellow Members, and those who do not believe in the quality of this law, in what state we found the country in 2012 and 2014. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia was 75%, the unemployment rate was close to 28%, the national currency was very unstable, the economy was completely destroyed, the traffic infrastructure of the retailer before the collapse and was unable to meet those requirements that the state had before that traffic infrastructure. Serbia, therefore, slowly skated into the collapse and ownership of the "Deltalanda" and the tycoon as it owned the company, Mr. Miskovic and his listener Boris Tadic and other tycoons such as Dragan Djilas and Solak. We found this kind of Serbia in 2012 and 2014. Today, because of reforms carried out by the president of the Republic of Serbia, we have a completely different Serbia and I am somewhat surprised that some tones that do not correspond to the economic and any other moment in which the Republic of Serbia is located are heard again in the National Assembly. You know, you claim that investors or employers in Serbia treat workers like slave owners, so you can do that if the unemployment rate is 40 per cent. If the unemployment rate is seven or slightly over 7%, a new healthy market is beginning to be created, which is a market for quality labour that will be paid much better than it was paid in the years before 2012 and 2014. You can't make such a flat-rate assessment of the relationship between Serbia and its employees and employers working here on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Another question arises, unfortunately, it seems to me that the Republic of Serbia has to go through some trials all the time. Could the Republic of Serbia, as we found in 2012, respond to the challenges of a health cataclysm or a disaster on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the rest of the world? I say I couldn't, because back in 2014 serious funds have been invested in reforming and rebuilding our health system. So we also have results that we can be relatively content with, not happy, because unfortunately there were people who died in this pandemic. But the other question is, could our economic system as we found in 2012 and 2014, be able to withstand this health crisis? How did we do in 2008 when there was a global economic crisis? I'm telling you, they wouldn't make it. And to have not only the breakdown of the health system, we would also have a mass of suicides or suicides because of the economic downturn that we haven't reformed all these years, because the 2008 global economic crisis is a "little baby" with an economic crisis caused by the KOVID epidemic. Just to point out some things, because of the global economic crisis, and I claim because of the thieving and incompetence of Gilas, Šolak, Tadic and obedience to Miskovic, the euro from 78 dinars jumped to 119 dinars, nearly 120 dinars. Unemployment rate from about 13-14% to 28%. An economy that was privatized under suspicious circumstances was completely destroyed. We had stealth bridges, stealth highways, stealth traffic. The highway from Presevo to Vranja paid, they never did, but we had to pay it again because they stole the money. Now we have a global economic crisis, compared to the health crisis. Did the euro jump against the dinar? It's not. Is our economy ruined? It's not. Is traffic infrastructure being built? It's being built. Do we have an increase in unemployment rates? We don't. And now no one can tell me it's not because of the results the previous governments had, and because of the reforms that Alexander Vukic started. We've had, like, enough ways, enough instruments to protect the population, to allow the economy to function in such difficult circumstances, even with state aid. I remember that unfortunate man Paul, he's the president of the Fiscal Council, when he said he shouldn't give 100 euros to every full-time citizen. I ask the question – and why is there a state? Is it only for itself, does it exist only for the sake of the system or does it exist solely for its citizens? We place the state that it exists because of its citizens, not because of itself, and even less because of tycoons such as Djilas, Tadic, Miskovic and others that have made Serbia and its citizens sick. Because we are talking about the results and the continuity that gives this bill that the next government will continue with the same reforms of the Republic of Serbia that began Aleksandar Vukic, with another task, which is that in the end, it will deal with this pandemic of KOVID, I am confident that Serbia will win this pandemic as it did in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u179	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The next person to be declared is the People's MP, Janko Langura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u180	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an honor to have the opportunity to address you in this high house for the first time. I would not look very much at the results of the previous government, because in previous elections we could clearly see that the policy our citizens support is the policy implemented by our president, Aleksandar Vukic. In the draft ministry law, I am particularly pleased to see that we will have a special resort to care for the Serb village. Since I come from Gornji Milanovac, one of the most developed and largest municipalities in western Serbia, which has 62 villages and 51 local communities, we are happy that, apart from our excellent co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture, we will have the opportunity to co-operate with the new Ministry of Agriculture and thus significantly improve even faster and further develop our municipality. Before we came to the SNS authorities in our municipality and despite the daily requests that we made to the then president of the municipality for the establishment of the agriculture office, which would make it significantly easier to work with these farmers, in addition to his daily promises that gave us the realization of it never happened. It's an eclectic example that the only policy they understand is the politics of lies and fraud. The agriculture office today is working with great success and excellent results. The budget of the office, despite the difficult conditions caused by the pandemic this year, amounted to 55 million dinars. Every following year, we will gradually increase that budget by an additional 10%. In addition to the Office, we are proud that we have managed to establish more than 15 cooperatives with which we co-operate daily and actively with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The municipality of Gornji Milanovac is today an excellent example of other municipalities investing in the Serbian village, developing Serbian village and producing food. What we are particularly committed to and what we will fight for daily is that in our short period of time, a factory that will deal with the processing industry, allowing all farmers in our municipality, whether small or large, will be able to guarantee a ransom price for a long-term period, a ransom price of course for their products, and thus we will be able to encourage them to expand their capacities. I would rely only on the speeches of my colleagues and take the opportunity to give full support to President Aleksandr Vukic and to say that this parliament is the most important partner of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic in the fight against the tycoon and the fight against the mafia and criminals. The parliament will never be the partner of the tycoon and mafia Serbia that Dragan Gilas imagines it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u181	Thank you, People's Parliament, for your effective and meaningful presentation. The word is Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia faces a number of challenges and major problems. Among these problems, in addition to the Kosovo and Metohija issues, in addition to significant progress in resolving the issue of living standards and unemployment, the issue of crime and corruption, the most important problems are the issue, i.e. the "white plague" and the dying of the village. We heard in the previous part of the discussion of colleagues who spoke about a number of facts regarding these two major problems. We know that every year Serbia decreases by 30 to 40,000 inhabitants, so for places the size of Negotina or Backo Palanka. There are 4,700 villages in Serbia, and a quarter of them or 1,200 are in the disappearance phase. In 1,000 villages we have less than 100 inhabitants. In 500 villages we have less than 50 inhabitants. In 86% of the village, the number of citizens is reduced. So these are all indicators that say a decisive fight is needed, both against the white plague and the struggle to save the Serb village. In that sense, I welcome the decision to form new ministries, including the village ministry, the family care ministry and demographics. Of course, it is also important to establish a ministry of human and minority rights and social dialogue, because Serbia is known as a country that respects international conventions regarding the protection of national minorities, but it is always good that a special state institution deals with this issue and a general issue of respect for human rights. One of the most important state and national issues, besides those I spoke about, is the issue of the position of Serbs in the region. We know that there is a clear difference between the concept of diaspora and Serbs in the region and that is very clearly said by Mr Martinovic. In eight countries of the region, close to two million Serbs live. It is five countries that formed in the area of the former Yugoslavia - Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro. In addition, there are Hungary, Romania and Albania. The situation of Serbs in the region is difficult. I can say that the only favourable and good situation in terms of respect for the rights of Serbs in Hungary and Romania is. In the other six states, we have a higher or lower degree of discrimination on the part of our people. Of course, the most difficult situation, i.e. the tragic position, is the position of the remaining Serbs in Croatia, who live in the 2011 census of 186,000, but the facts show that the number is now significantly smaller, which will show the population census that will be in Croatia next year. In Croatia, I remind you, when the Yugoslav, undetermined was taken into account, more than 700,000 Serbs lived. So over half a million Serbs were expelled from Croatia, and according to UNHCR data, only between 50 and 60 thousand returned. Unfortunately, for the past few years, we have a steady percentage, i.e. the emergence of the eviction of Serb returnees, which, in Serbia, in Western European countries. Also, the tragic position is that of our people in the Federation of BiH, where about 600,000 Serbs lived before the war, and according to the 2013 census, only 56,000 live. Now that number, also according to unofficial data, is significantly smaller. The difficult situation, of course, was also in Montenegro. We all expect that by forming a new government in Montenegro, the position of Serbs will be improved and will be best seen in the census next year. I must say that, over the past six years, significant progress has been made in helping Serbs in the region, of course, the main credit has been made by President Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also by the government of the AP Vojvodina. We had a number of concrete measures by both the Serbian government and the province government. However, my opinion is that the problem of Serbs in the region, in particular the Serbs in Croatia, the Federation of BiH and Montenegro, is very difficult and a special state institution should be established. My opinion is that the Ministry of Serbs should be established in the region, which in one systematic way should be done by providing concrete assistance on a daily basis, therefore, from the restoration of houses, through reconstruction of public facilities, municipal infrastructure, churches, parish homes, homes of culture, schools. Then, the ministry that would provide concrete economic, social assistance to Serbs living in the environment, and the special role of the ministry of Serbs in the region should be to fight for the kidnapped property and acquired rights of expelled Serbs and all other damaged citizens. I will only mention some of these problems – taken away by household rights, taken away, usurped agricultural land, then destroyed houses in classical terrorist actions by Croatian cities, auxiliary facilities, then the issue of outstanding outstanding pensions, the issue of taken-off employment and a number of other issues. The basis for fighting for property acquired rights that have been kidnapped by exiled Serbs and all other damaged citizens in both Croatia and the Federation of BiH, above all, should be the Vienna Agreement on Succession, namely Annex G, which is called "private Property and Rights". The agreement clearly states that all citizens and all legal entities must be returned to the rights they had on 31.12.1990, and all contracts concluded under pressures and threats during and after the war must be declared void. We only have nearly 20,000 Serbs under pressure and threat were forced to sell and change their houses from Croatian cities and from the Federation of BiH. Also, I think that one particularly important issue that has been plagued by a large number of Serbian citizens, or Serbs who are related to and originating in the territory of Croatia and BiH, is the issue of war crimes. We know well that in Zagreb and Sarajevo, we do not have an independent judiciary, that both the prosecution of Croatia and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, as well as their courts, ethnically motivated institutions, whose aim is to massively initiate investigations, raise charges and judges to the Serbs and members of the former JNA, with one goal, to justify one of the most hopeless lies and inventions, that Serbia and the Serb people have committed aggression against Croatia and BiH, and that Croats and Bosniaks have been prone to wage liberating wars and have been victims of this aggression. The facts clearly show that the main culprit for the war in Croatia was the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman, whose goal was to create an ethnically pure Croatian state without or with as few Serbs as possible, and that the main goal of the Islamic regime of Ali Izetbegovic was to create a unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina, from which Serbs would be expelled or the remaining Serbs would be citizens of the fifth order. In that sense, I think it would be important to set up an office to help suspected and accused Serbs, whose goal would be to provide free professional and legal assistance and provide financial support in defence of false charges and to defend them in mounted political processes. The majority of Serbs and JNA members fought with honor and courage for their people and their country and they want to clear their names that they were, or that they were war criminals. That is why they need the help of a state institution, as the vast majority of Serbs and the Republika Srpska Army and the Republika Srpska Army or members of the Yugoslav Army, who fought in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999, are in a difficult situation and do not have the means to pay expensive and long court proceedings. So, the office would be tasked with helping defend Serbs in this sense to help fight for the truth about the character of war in the former Yugoslavia. I have to say, that's what the facts show, that the largest number of crimes against Serbs has not been prosecuted. Let's look at the example of BiH, major crimes against Serbs in central Podrinj, in more than 100 villages in the municipalities of Srebrenica, Zvornik, Bratunac, Milic, Vlasenica, Šekovići, Osmaki, then crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, central Bosnia, in 13 western provinces, in Sarajevo, in western Herzegovina. The largest number of these crimes has not been processed. A number of crimes against Serbs, following Croatian criminal acts, in western Slavonia in 1991, "Otkos", "Orkan", "Papuk 91", "Medac pocket", "Masslenica", "Miljevacki plato", "Storm", numerous crimes against Serbs in hundreds of Croatian cities. So none of this has been processed. What I want to express, which is my dissatisfaction with the work of the D.A.'s War Crimes Department. For what? According to data published in the National War Crimes Processing Strategy, adopted by the Serbian government in February 2016, the war crimes prosecutor's office, since its founding in 2003, so in those 13 years, has filed indictments against 178 people. Of that number of charges, when we look at nationality, we have two indictments against Croats, two against Muslims, 21 against Albanians and 153 against Serbs. So over 85% of the charges were filed against Serbs. I appeal, and I have done so repeatedly in public, on this occasion at the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office to finally start investigating and pressing charges of numerous brutal, unremembered crimes against our people in Croatia, BiH and the KIM. One of the most important topics, the most important, humanitarian, civilizational issue, is the question of missing persons. Yesterday and yesterday, we had a two-day session of the Commission on Missing Persons of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. We had statements by the president of the Croatian Commission on the missing persons of Stjepan Sucic, who gave faceless lies to the HRT that Serbia is to God obstructing the process of resolving missing persons' issues and that Serbia is denying information about hidden and moved graves. We know well that Croatia has been pointing out one piece of information for years, which is that it is searching for 1,869 missing Croatian citizens, skillfully avoiding the question of the nationality of these victims. What is important and what we have information is that of those close to 1,900 missing Croatian citizens over 1,100 are Serbs and less than 800 are Croats. I think we should insist, or our missing persons commission led by Mr. Odalovic, that Croatia finally announces the nationality of all 1,869 missing persons. Also in 2013, Serbia sent a list of 630 missing Serbs whose families reported their loved ones to the Red Cross of Serbia. They did not report them to the International Committee of the Red Cross, did not report them to the Red Cross of Croatia and now Croatia has for seven years refused to join these 630 Serbs with its 1,869 missing persons list. Stjepan Sucic speaks here in Belgrade that Serbia is holding back the process of resolving, that there are known grave sites in Serbia, and we all know that there are dozens of famous grave sites in Croatia where we have over 150 killed Serbs. Croatia will not exhume those remains for years. We have about 900 bodies of exhumed remains at the Department of Judicial Medicine in Zagreb. According to reliable information, over 500 are the remains of missing Serbs, or killed Serbs. So, we must, I repeat, insist more strongly and more strongly that Croatia publishes the nationality of all its, all missing persons on their list, to join its 630 missing persons list which it has not done so far, to identify 900 postmortem remains and finally exhume Serbs from known tombs located across northern Dalmatia, Bania, Like, Kordun and Western Slavonia. The same problem is with the BiH Missing Persons Institute, which does nothing to solve the 1,650 missing Serbs in the BiH area. From Croatia, let me just say, more than 1,700 Serbs are wanted, and from the KIM area about 500 Serbs. So over 3,800 Serbs are missing, and it seems almost nothing to solve this very important, or most important humanitarian and civilization issue. In order to avoid further debt, since other colleagues should speak, I would like to say in the end that I will support the proposal for a law on ministries, and that these issues and the issue of setting up a ministry for Serbs in the region and the issue of setting up an office for assistance to the accused and suspected Serbs are important issues that need to be opened dialogue and in the next period work to ensure that these two institutions are set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u183	Thank you. The next reported MP is Vladica Maricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u184	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Serbian citizens, I would like to thank you in my first address before I start speaking on the draft law on ministries, which is on the agenda today, in my first address, for the confidence shown by my SNS and President Aleksandar Vucic to today, as well as many other young people, educated, fellow MPs, are found here in the assembly benches, to discuss the Law on Ministers and next week on the composition of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law, which is on the agenda today, as many fellow MPs before me have said, three ministries, not just any ministry, but those ministries that expect citizens of Serbia, who supported the huge list, called Aleksandar Vucic – for our children, voting, two million citizens, or just over 60% of the citizens who voted in the elections, supported the policy that President Aleksandar Vucic has been leading for eight years, supported the 2025 plan, which implies building a water and sewerage network in every village in Serbia until 2025. That is why today, in the proposal for a law on ministries, we have the Ministry of Agriculture. Because our list was called Aleksandar Vucic – For our children today we have in the draft law on ministries a new ministry, the Ministry of Family Care and Demography, but the SNS does not start now in 2020 to fight for more babies, the fight for demographics, the most important struggle for Serbia's survival. In 2018, the Serbian Progressive Party also led the fight when the Strategy on Inciting Birth was adopted, and on the basis of which the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children was amended, so today we have a parental supplement bigger than ever. Some fellow MPs spoke of it before me, but it did not burn again. It's a one-time aid, a parenting allowance for a first-born child worth 100,000 dinars. It's an aid for a second-born child worth 10,000 dinars in the next 24 months. It's an aid of 12,000 dinars over the next 120 months, meaning 10 years, for a third-born child and for the next 10 years 18,000 dinars for a fourth-born child. There is also an amendment to the Health Insurance Act that allowed any woman up to 43 years of age who faces the problem of infertility to have unlimited number of times at home clinics on the cost of the Fund to treat infertility of biomedically assisted fertilisation, an out-of-body fertilisation process. The ministry, the Ministry of Family Care and Demography has a very important task ahead of it that will only be possible if it connects with all units of local self-government in Serbia and if every city and municipality helps it. I come from Nisa City, where the help of parents is defined by a decision on financial assistance to families with children. I come from a city where a law on extended forms of social protection was allowed in 2005 by couples who are treated with infertility to receive funding for biomedically assisted fertilisation. As for the third new ministry in today's proposal, it is the ministry of human and minority rights and social dialogue. Many of my fellow members of the national minorities spoke about the issue of human and minority rights, and I see that they are pleased that human and minority rights in Serbia's future will be dealt with by a separate ministry. That is why I would like to say something about the importance of social dialogue in Serbia. In classical political theory, the thing is clear, that political opinion behind it has 50% plus one vote in society, and I remind you that today the SNS has more support than it was in the elections, means more than 60%, the opinion that is mostly a political truth, but the maturity of the SNS is seen in that it wants to hear every minority opinion, regardless of whether it comes from political parties that participated in the elections and did not go over the censorship, from those political parties that did not participate in the elections or from certain associations, especially associations that deal with public favouring and defining public policies. It is therefore one of the parts of the new ministry, the ministry of human and minority rights and social dialogue and co-operation with associations. In the voting day, I will support this bill proposed by my parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic - "For Our Children". I call on all fellow Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this ministry law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u185	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u186	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, at first I would like to inform you that after four months we have finally managed to free Sabac and end the elections in Sapac. Full of four months, Dusan Petrovic, Nebojsa Zelenovic and the entire concrete team did not want to recognise the results, did not want to recognise the victory and that victory by the citizens of Sapca, 30,232 votes won by SNS and its coalition partners, 18,020 votes won Nebojsa Zelenovic, 12,000 votes less. Three rounds of elections, we were ready to go to 33, and after 33 rounds, the citizens would not trust Nebojsa Zelenovic and Dusan Petrovic. Three circles that have shown from circle to circle that support for SNS and Aleksandra Vukic is growing bigger and bigger each time, each time victory has been more convincing and convincing. In the end, 46 mandates for SNS and coalition partners, Dusan Petrovic, Nebojsa Zelenovic and a complete 23-vote thief team are the result. The victory in Šapco is pure as tears and thanks to the very institutions of the state, we have done it in the most democratic way possible and in accordance with the law. They're white citizens, they've won justice. What I must say when these bill proposals, or the structure of the future government, are responsible, serious and best possible proposals at this time. The continuation of the policy that results is the continuation of Alexander Vukic's policy. If we know that the new three ministries, which are the ministries of human and minority rights, concern for the family and concern for the village, should we add a comment, if we list the three ministries in question and what problems they solve, or what they want to achieve in the next period. Care of the village as a special accent, taking care of the village everyone was talking about, which Alexander Vukic only worked for. I will remind myself, in 2012, by taking responsibility for Serbia, when villages and not just villages, when cities that began to stop being on the map of Serbia, at that time neither investments nor new jobs nor the future nor cities nor villages nor our citizens. What happened was just the rapid development of the city, but also the rapid development of the village. There were also Ruma, Mitrovica, Subotica, Smederevo, Panchevo, Nis, Prokuplje and before Alexander Vukic, but there were no new jobs in those places, there were no investments. What the previous government has shown is that it can continue the continuity of good results, which are primarily committed to citizens. At this point, this decision to extend the number of ministries will bring even better results, and what we certainly are, and Corona has shown, is that under the conditions of Corona, in conditions where the whole of Europe, or the whole world, has serious problems, we in Serbia were certain of two things. The first thing is the village, we were safe in our village, we were sure we'd have food, we wouldn't have those problems on one side and the other, we were safe in Alexander Vukic. These are the two things that have brought about this crisis and that have led to the most difficult economic crisis in conditions where everyone has a fall, only Serbia will have a defeat and we will be the first, be careful, first, these are data that are neither falsified nor invented, these are data that are known to be the first to grow in Europe. In 2012, when the country was destroyed, when there were no institutions, when there was no system, could it have thought such a thing? The system is exactly the word. Today, the system works, the state works, but it functions exclusively and thanks to Alexander Vukic, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The institutions function, Serbia has a future, a future for our children, a future for Alexander Vukic. All those who think well, regardless of which foreigners they belong, simply have to support this proposal by the future government and this proposal must certainly be supported by those who do not belong to the SNS, but belong to those who think about the future of our children and who think about Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u187	Thank you. Next reported, MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u188	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, we have the agenda item Proposal for a law on ministries. The previous speakers have provided a lot of facts, information, I will try not to repeat myself, and I will sublime everything that has been said before. Otherwise, this is the first step towards achieving six principles, namely the goals that President Aleksandar Vukic presented a few days ago, which are actually a struggle and a continuation of the fight for Serbia to be a much better and better place for the lives of our citizens. We showed on the basis of macroeconomic data that we were able to grow out of the loser country into the winner country and that besides team sports champions, we could be champions in the economy. Who would have thought that Serbia would be in a situation today if it had an average salary of 511 euros, and that the salary planned in 2025 is not so far away and that it is a real figure and a task that we can accomplish. All of what we have achieved today, we have achieved thanks to the reforms that President Aleksandar Vucic, then the prime minister launched as Prime Minister in 2014, measures that were not popular, but which were necessary and thanks to this we are also successfully fighting the Koron virus pandemic today. Much has been invested in both health care and economics, culture, education, sports. Young people have playgrounds where they can and can play, and we have shown internationally that we are an adequate partner for fighting peace and stability and respect for international rights. We have shown that we are fighting for the interests of our citizens both in KIM and in the region and that we will never let them down and that we are not the one that prevents the integration of our region, but rather that we want to fight for the integration and further development of the entire region. When we look at the co-operation we have with the EU, with China, Russia and the United States, it actually shows our position on the international agenda. When we talk about the ministries, you results that have so far been set are a great basis for the new government to continue to fight harder to achieve these goals, to achieve much better results, and the new three ministries that we will vote in this meeting are just saying that we are ready to deal with problems even more, particularly demographic policies, to make us no longer one of the oldest nations in Europe. We have seen that the measures proposed by President Aleksandar Vukic, carried out by the government of Ana Brnabic, deliver results and I am sure that with the new ministry, they will deliver even better results. We will be a country that will use the potential of the village and for the development of rural tourism and for the development of educational tourism and for the development of the economy for young people to stay in the country, so that young people no longer leave the village and many of the problems we discussed today will surely be successfully solved by the new ministry. We also showed the Ministry of Dialogue that we are as a party and as people ready to talk to everyone who knows what the real term dialogue means. That we are open to new ideas, to suggestions that we will implement together that all citizens of Serbia have been better, but only with those who, in the right sense, want dialogue to discuss arguments, not to talk through threats and blackmail. What I finally want to say is that in the past elections we have heard clearly the voice of the people and that this voice of the people has said that it wants to continue reforms, fight for a better life and prosperity of Serbia. It's a great responsibility and this law, as I said, we're going one step further towards achieving this goal, which is a great responsibility, but which we're going to be able to realise. Also, what is important is to say that citizens have proved and pen-beated the sword, violence and street and actually said that they do not support empty stories and cowards, but only work, combativity and honesty, which is the image of the policy that Aleksandar Vukic represents from the moment he was given the confidence of citizens to lead this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u189	Thank you for your excellent presentation. National MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u190	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, if I may allow myself, to point out that it is my pleasure to speak to you in the moments when you chair. I will be very brief, because we are at the end of the debate on the proposal for a law on ministries whose proposal is a group of 167 MPs of the Aleksandar Vukic Group – For our children. We, the chairman, have heard the most important and crucial moments, as well as the numerous benefits this law will produce for both the state and the citizens. This law creates assumptions that in the coming days we will choose a new government, a government that will represent the continuity of Serbia's reform progress, and whose driver is former Prime Minister, and today is the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic. Continuity in all those segments that we have defined, in the objectives that we have set as the basis of work and future government and when it comes to continuing economic growth and when it comes to the fight for Serbia's interests, but also to the preservation and survival of the Serb people in KIM, and when it comes to Serbia's political stability, and when it comes to fighting the pandemic of the Coronus virus, and especially when it comes to fighting corruption and crime. In all these segments, as in many others, we have achieved and have very serious results. From year to year, we strengthen business activity in Serbia, create a better investment environment, record a greater inflow of foreign direct investment, resulting in an increase in the number of new jobs which again creates conditions for better citizens' living standards and Serbia's overall economic growth. Serbia is far more respected in the world today. We have recovered, to say the reputation of all relevant political actors and Serbia no longer sees anyone as part of the problem, but as part of the solution. Serbia is today an absolute leader in the region and someone to say, in whom Serbs from the region, but wherever Serbs live, looks at it. Someone they can rely on, someone whose help they can count on whenever it's hard. Serbia's security and defence system is at a very high level and I would say light years away from that sad period when some years of destroying Serbia, destroying our army, melting tanks and weapons, selling like old iron and all that -- and what the military will do to us. Unlike them, we know what we need an army for. We know how important it is to invest in a modern and efficient army as a factor in peace and stability. Just because we don't want wars, because we don't want new conflicts, because we want peace, stability in the region, that's why we strengthen and invest in Serbia's defence system. Despite all this, we know that we must not relax for one second, that it is not enough to say – well, we are better than those pests that have robbed and destroyed Serbia for years, while personally enriching themselves to unsuspecting proportions, so one of them is richer and gained a fortune of 619m euros. It is not enough and that is why we raise the scale every time more and more, because we are convinced that we can do even better and that we will make Serbia a successful, modern, decent and orderly country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u191	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u192	Thank you, Chairman. You will allow me, at the very beginning, to give a brief introduction and to repeat what has already been countless, especially my young colleagues today, that they have been honored, and at this very moment I am experiencing enormous responsibility and honor for a simple reason because today I am speaking as the first Serbian MP to be elected to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, and today he is elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I am therefore the first Serbian MP to both Serbian parliaments. I am not saying that he would particularly point out this, but to highlight the responsibility that puts me in this very role and puts me in this high house today, at the home of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, which represents the sanctity of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and to whom we all, especially Serbs, Serbs Krajisniks, Serbs who come across the Drina, when they come to Belgrade, always pass this National Assembly here. I must also say as a man, but also as a People's MP, that the dream that I had one day to be here in the National Assembly, and especially to be a MP, that I had come true. That dream came about because of the support of the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but above all because of the vision of Mr. Alexander Vukic, President of the Republic of Serbia, the man who, not only in this region, knows the Serbian issue best, knows each Serbian city best, every Serbian town, every Serbian site where he is located, every Serbian monastery. That's not who he was born in the last century. Will someone in this century be born who will have such predisposition? He is not without reason the president of the Republic of Serbia and is not in Serbia today for no reason where he is, she is only there because of the vision, because of the credibility built by Aleksandar Vukic. For this very reason, all of us who come from other parts where Serbs live are looking at Serbia today, we look at Alexander Vukic, according to more colleagues today, as leader, the leader who has determined credibility, vision and who has achieved the results. We look with pride at Serbia and therefore look proudly at this high home, the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, I must say that I have a great deal of pain in the facts, the unloved scenes that were here in front of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, which should be the sanctuary of democracy and which is today, as every time, a reflection of the people's will and reflection, let me say, a policy that leads to different political structures. For this reason, many may object that this composition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is like this, but this composition in which SNS has this kind of domination confirms the correctness of politics, confirms the correctness of the vision and shows, on the other hand, the wrong policy of all those who were not opposition to SNS by the institutions were already opposition to Serbia, and therefore the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia punished them, so they, despite being partially and their will, are not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today because they have nothing to say. Today I was proud to listen to your discussions, especially young colleagues, and I must say that every discussion was in place, that you are proud to follow all the events that take place in the region. I have to say here, Mr Glisic was talking today about not voting, apparently, for this law now because we don't have a diaspora ministry, not mentioning the region. Of course, as the head of our parliamentary group said, we have an administration that is institutionally defined permanently, not as one ministry that can be both ad hoc and for political reasons, but what's much more important in this kind of story is that it's a much more important element, not a form. Let me remind you, especially to remind all the public in the Republic of Serbia and in the region following this National Assembly, the Republic of Serbia once had that ministry and led by some former authorities. What was the result? I, as someone who lived in the City of Banja Luka, who visited the Republic of Serbia countless times, know that there was no contribution that was essential. How much this parameter means today and what the vision of the Republic of Serbia in terms of helping Republika Srpska, is enough to say that the Republic of Serbia has helped Republika Srpska about 60m euros, or 120m marks, and that practically there is no municipality in Republika Srpska that the institutions of the Republic of Serbia have not helped build at least kindergarten, at least school, at least once, a bridge that means better and better quality life, which means exactly the integration that we want so much today. For this reason, I would like to say, in relation to all the objectives defined and declared in these six objectives, that I would not repeat them again and take valuable time, that I would also say that the composition of this assembly majority that is today is a concentration and concentration government, that it will mean exactly what it represents, and that we have decided that at this difficult moment, at a time when we should fight the pandemic of the coronary virus, in which the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is particularly relevant at this moment, and when we know that the strategic provision of this government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be chosen to fight crime, crime and corruption, is precisely the need for such a historic and important moment to form such a broad government, a broad coalition, which in a shorter period of time, as it is announced, will be able to make huge reform moves. It is this capacity of the government and the congregation majority that shows that we will have the strength to do so. For this reason, I would like to commend once again all those who took part in proposing this act and still current, of course, v.d. in the technical mandate, the cabinet of Ana Brnabic, our parliamentary group that tabled such a meaningful proposal and decided to make and adopt three new ministries. For this reason, it also needs to be linked to another fact that here in the election of the National Assembly of Serbia's leadership, the Republic of Serbia can also be proud of the external plan and say that it has chosen two MPs for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly in the order of national minorities. It's nowhere in the region. Serbia is proud of every citizen, regardless of whether he is Bosniak, whether he is Albanian, whether he is Bulgarian or in any other way if he has declared himself a national minority, lives in Serbia and gives, as we have seen here and the support of many national minorities and their groups, the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the politics of Aleksandr Vukic. I also want to say one more thing here, which is extremely important, which is the formation of a family ministry and family care, for demographics. The issue is being placed in the epicenter, and it was not, as some malicious people say, political politicizing. This is a ridiculous need in the Republic of Serbia, which is the insatiable need of the Serbian national issue. For this reason, I brought with me a book, which I read 15 years ago, which is, "Why are Serbs disappearing?" I know many of you have read that book. Unfortunately, open this book that was published in 2003 and you will see that these black hunches have unfortunately come true. However, good and progressive measures, measures that the former Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is now in its technical mandate, and the previous National Assembly meeting, have adopted, we have a Law on Helping Parents with Children and Financial Support for Parents with Children, which does not exist anywhere in the region. Believe me, I come from Banja Luka, you don't have it in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you don't have it in Croatia, you don't have it in Macedonia, you don't have it in Montenegro, you don't have it anywhere in Austria, you have it in Vienna. No family is supported in this way. Now these measures need to be united systemically and given in a certain way additional support, not only to children, but also to families, mothers, fathers, that there are more of us tomorrow. For this reason I am just here and I am in this parliamentary group, because its name says “Alexander Vukic – For the future of our children” and shows in the best possible way that this parliamentary group is someone who will initiate a lot of things. For this reason, you will forgive me, but I will end my discussion with what is on my heart, which is -- lived in Serbia, lived in the Republic of Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u193	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The remaining time for the parliamentary group is 18 minutes. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u194	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Vlado Orlic, it is my special honor to see you here next to the President of the Assembly as one of our parliamentarians in the last few years. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in this economic recovery of Serbia from the economic ambition brought by Gilas and Jeremic's authority must be done, among other things, to restore the family and its vital functions. I wish the MP from the opposition, I don't see him, maybe he is here to hear this now. At the time of the government of the former regime, Mr. Gilas and Mr. Jeremic, by 2012, and this is the time of the big robbery privatisation, most of the burden of the economic and social crisis has collapsed precisely on a woman as a pillar of the family, and we are talking about it today and forming a ministry. In their time, women were the first to lose their jobs, right, Mr. Gilas, who now observes this transfer from your comfortable apartment, and thus without economic independence, which resulted in professional inconsistency and economic dependence of the woman. Isn't that right, Mr. Jeremiah? And depression and frustration were merely manifestations of the condition that women were pushed without their guilt, and your guilt until 2012, because you destroyed all the companies that existed. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, women, mothers, are the ones who, at the time of the government of Dilas and Jeremic, fought with their own dissatisfaction, with the poverty of the family budget, raising children and preserving marriage. In Gilas and Jeremic's time when they destroyed the factories, they made a woman an economic magician to feed the family. Is that right, Mr. Gilas and Mr. Jeremic? In Serbia and the region, ladies and gentlemen, the mother is a synonym of all virtues throughout the centuries, the mother is a family integration factor and a parent. The mother was humiliated, confused and unhappy in Gilas and Jeremic's time. Honorable MPs, instead of mothers working in factories, and how they'll work, when they've been destroyed by robbery privatisation. You know what they were doing? Mothers sat on corners of the street selling cigarettes, because it was the only way to feed their children. Right, Mr. Gilas? Go out on TV tonight and say yes or not. Instead of the children being proud of their mothers, which they deserved, the children were ashamed and bypassing the streets where their mothers were selling cigarettes. Is that what they're doing in Belgrade now? Now they're sitting in factories most of them, where they used to belong. Mothers were forced to smuggle, run from the police, and make children learn not to do so. How is Mr. Gilas, and Mr. Jeremiah? Answer this tonight to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time your authorities, most of the women were desperate for the humiliation you exposed them to, of the children they could not set an example, of the sacrifice that was despised, of the fear that children without control would not resort to drugs, prostitution, theft and violence. Women were the biggest victim of Serbia's economic and moral collapse in your time, Mr. Gilas and Mr. Jeremic. A woman is the foundation of a family that wasn't accidentally attacked and destroyed in your time. By destroying the family and its values, you have destroyed our society from the inside. Values are changing, gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Bad and destructive, it's getting profitable. Youth awareness is being formed towards the needs of tycoons, while at the same time unemployment in your time, Mr. Gilas, 26% directly influenced the demographic structure and image of the population. That's the picture you left us. That is why the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic and Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Ana Brnabic to establish this ministry, a strategic, top-of-the-line and top-secret defence strategy for serious expensiveness and politics, a strategy to preserve the development of the state and its nation. Ladies and gentlemen, you'll excuse me, but I still have a few sentences to say. Mr. Gilas and Marinika Tepic, otherwise the political electric rabbit of Dragan Dilas, continue daily to shamelessly launch lies about the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic and his family. All of their lies suffer new lies and false affairs, and thus, within the circle of old lies, they suffer new lies. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, who still remembers their lies about "Jovanja" or a lie about France today? Who still remembers their lies today about hundreds of dead floating around Obrenovac during the 2014 flood? Who remembers the fake kidnappings of journalists who tried to stage themselves? Who remembers their death threats written on the sidewalks themselves? Who remembers their invention of child abductions and I could go on forever? Marinika Tepic, the political electric rabbit of Dragan Djilas, lays down at night in one political party, and wakes up in the morning in another political party. Isn't that right, Mr. Martinovic? She lied to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that there was a secret on the farm of a military facility Morovic, near Šida, quoting the state-owned marijuana plantation. Respected citizens of Serbia, when the journalists went and visited military facilities in Morovic, do you know what they found there? Of course, you know, most of you remember, and I believe the MPs, chickens, chickens and, of course, eggs are ready to sell, even the well-respected citizens of Serbia and the well-respected former defence minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Sutanovac and the very good Mr. Goran Jesic, have said, I quote, that there is a military holding of eggs and tow chickens there for more than 40 years. Marinika Tepic is constantly doing her lies with irreparable damage and to the dedicated industry, especially Krusik, she, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, is systematically working against the vital state and national interests of our country. Stand down, gentlemen of the Alliance for Serbia of Lies. Avoid hatred and violence, for we will not respond to your hatred and violence with hatred and violence. Do you know why? It is precisely because we are aware that the hatred and violence that you sow in the cities of the Republic of Serbia cannot build the Republic of Serbia as a modern country. It can only be built by tireless work, patriotism, love and fine education, as our President Alexander Vukic does. Finally, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to remind Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic found the country in 2014. Serbia that was economically, industrialally, infrastructureally destroyed. Right, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Isn't that right, Mr. Gilas and Mr. Jeremiah? Serbia without security, without the safety of its citizens. Right, Mr. Gilas? Serbia that was humiliated. Isn't that right, Mr. Gilas? Serbia without a vision of the development of plans and programmes. Isn't that right, Mr. Jeremiah? Serbia without faith and the hopes of its citizens and for a better future. Right, Mr. Gilas? Serbia with too much responsibility. Right, Mr. Jeremiah? Serbia with completely collapsed state institutions. Oh, totally. Serbia without any international reputation. Serbia and Serbs who have completely satanicized the world. Serbia with abandoned health care, education, with total collapsed finances, and then in 2014 came for President Aleksandar Vukic. In short, he reformed the country, built highways, schools, hospitals, consolidated public finances, raised the army to an envious level. While he did so, many have robbed the country, and today the fight against corruption has been announced, regardless of party membership and finally Mr. Vlado Orlic, the chairman, tell Mr. President that we will perform without discussion of all the tasks, we will make sure to carry them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u195	Thank you. Next reported for the word, MP Tomislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u196	The Honorable Chairman and distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is also a great honor for me to address you here for the first time in Parliament, we have a really good, quality proposal for a law on ministries which, in my opinion, is a product of need and desire to continue the reform processes in our country, but also to ensure a better and better quality life for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. According to the programme objectives presented and the principles of the new government, we can say that it will be the government of the Continuity of the Government, which led Ana Brnabic over the previous four years and which led a good policy and which gave good results, but the new government that will be based on the government in 2014, the government chaired by Aleksandar Vukic and which has produced really good and quality results in its work. These are, above all, policies of concern for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their national, religious, political or any other kind of belonging, economic development policies, policies of co-operation with the world. As well as colleagues who spoke in previous times, I would also like to put one accent on the new proposal for a law on ministries and three new ministries, which I hope, in the days ahead, will be voted and supported, as well as the entire government, and that is the Ministry of Agriculture. We are in SNS aware of the facts, roles and importance of the village and that the quality of life of people in the country cannot be the same or approximately the quality of life of people who are in the city, but we must through legal solutions, through finance, through good suggestions, to bring the quality of life closer and that people remain in the country. A good foundation is certainly "Serbia 20-25" and all those projects that managed to be implemented in the previous period. The new ministry will have strong support, both the parliament and the government in general, and I believe there will be great successes. The Ministry of Family and Demography is a significant ministry. We should remind ourselves that the birth rate is 1.78 children per woman, which is certainly not the information that encourages, but through legal solutions, through finance, through everything that we can offer as a state, we believe that the results in that area will be better. The third ministry, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue is also a very important ministry and what we can, as citizens of Serbia, praise is that we are leaders in Europe in respect of the rights of national minorities. Today in Serbia in 40 municipalities is equally used by the language of national minorities, they are educated in their language, they have the right to inform and that is what is certainly one quality of life in our country. Today, two vice-presidents in the Serbian Assembly are representatives of minorities in our country. We know that there will also be those who will criticise this proposal, which will say that the government is big, that you increase the number of ministries, that the state apparatus is increasing, but that is not true. We will get a ministry that will be operational, which will not be too massive and which in one efficient and quality way will solve all those problems from the domain of its work. What is particularly encouraging is the fact that in the new government there will be those people who have made a big contribution in the previous period and showed a lot of energy, a lot of desire, a lot of understanding for citizens' problems, that there will be some new people in the new government, who will bring in new energy, new power, new ideas, and that a significant number of members of the future government will belong to the more beautiful sex, women. We men have to admit that women are much more rational and that when they make decisions, they make decisions and vote primarily as mothers, and then as wives, sisters, as grandmothers, and that through their engagement, the Government will indeed make a significant contribution to solving all the problems that we have and the challenges that will come. Certainly there will be a lot of challenges in front of ministers in the future government, a lot of difficulties, a lot of energy, a lot of knowledge. We set high goals that we must all resolve together, and it is therefore important that as MPs, we give consent to the bill and give full support to the future government. This will be our contribution to continuing the process of reforms in our country, the process of economic development and improving the quality of life of all citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u197	Thank you. The word is Viktor Jevtovic, with three minutes left from the time the parliamentary group has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u198	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present in short lines the basic six points that we have already spoken of. Everything that was supposed to be said was said by colleagues. So, Serbia is on the path it should be. What I would like to relate to right now is the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, the base and the basis of all of why human and minority rights, because it's one of the factors of stability for all of us. Serbia is heading towards the EU and we must stick to it and I fully support the President of the Republic. The Department of Family Care and Demography. So one day, why do we care about family, each of us here has a family and children for whom he would give his life, so these are the ones we love. What bothered me very much and bothered me, because the Serbian president's family is constantly attacking, without compromise, and everyone would give me life for my family. What needs to be accomplished is that demographic continent, that young people stay in Serbia. I wanted out of this country 12 years ago. But I saw hope, I saw the future. So that wars may not be repeated, that miracles and evil may not be repeated. Serbia's president, along with the SNS, is working on it with his partners. Also, why stay in the country? Whenever it was dense and difficult, through difficult periods of Serbian history, what was the peasant, or Serb host? The first defender of the country. What was he after? He was a man who created and worked and contributed to the earth. So, young people go back to the country, and hence what is basic, to contribute to the employment and better future of the village and all of us. What is also important is that all these laws that have been passed will not burden the budget. The last sentence I'd say is that happiness follows the brave and history remembers the fearless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u199	Next on the list is Bratimir Vasiljevic. But you only have 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u200	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your election. My wish today is to take part in the Ministry Act. Simply, what I see through these laws is a great role for the president of the state, and it is not for the first time, but for who knows what time to today, what is the role of one visionary and one man who gives everything for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What I wanted to look at is, in addition to the six objectives proposed by the president of the state and our government, I have heard some criticisms of people today, but the court recently gave it to citizens and I don't understand how long it will take and how long people think they can fool Serbian citizens into forgetting what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done for Serbian citizens. Today, my attention was to remain with the Ministry of the Village, and I would have singled out these three new ministries, which play a great role, and I hope it will make a great contribution to the development of the village. I would refer only to where I was until recently president of the Panteleus City Municipality, and I come from the city of Nis and the city municipality of Pantelius. If we want to and if we want to keep young people in the country, we will have to make a lot more effort, and this applies to the new minister who will take this very serious and very difficult responsibility to change the situation in the country, because we also know that a large number of villages are dying, disappearing, and that there are more and more old people, and that our young people are not staying in the rural area. In addition to production, survival in the country is quite complicated, difficult and complex work, we have to provide some preconditions, at least even about the way citizens in the territory of the city have. I would keep your attention, especially specifically in the township of Panteleus where the homes of culture, or cooperative homes, are still called, for years in bankruptcy status and can't start from a dead spot, because it takes more than 15 years, and young people have no place to gather, socialize and that cultural and artistic life takes place in these rural areas. I know the president is going to rightly ask for the discussion to come to an end, and I will, but I would take this opportunity to congratulate my friend and comrade on my birthday here next to me, Milija Miletic, not to forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-24-0.u201	I'm happy for my birthday, but I'm asking you to come back on the subject. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and a single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint review of the proposals for acts referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda of this session, and I will remind you that point 1 has not yet been completed and that we will continue, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because there is an amendment to the draft law, on Monday, but since we have concluded the debate on item 2 and 3 of the agenda, I remind you of Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, according to which the President of the National Assembly may set a voting day immediately after the search is completed. In accordance with this provision, I determine Saturday, October 24th, starting at 7 p.m. and 17 minutes. Please, this hour's a bit of a rush, it's not true. By this watch I have here for 19 hours and 17 minutes. So, for 19 hours and 18 minutes, I set as a day for voting on item 2 and 3 of the agenda, i.e. on a motion for a decision to suspend office and appoint to the Republic Election Commission and a proposal for appointment of Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), Rules of Procedure, there is a quorum for work if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask you to insert your identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 199 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, with the majority of the votes of all MPs, is exercising electoral authority. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. You have 15 seconds for that, according to the Rules of Procedure. I find that out of the 200 MPs present, 200 voted. Congratulations on that. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for this decision. Point 3 of the agenda – Proposal for the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that the National Assembly has carried out a search for the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly, and before moving to the vote, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 37(2), The Rules of Procedure, Deputy Secretary-General, has been appointed by the majority of the total number of MPs. I would like to put the motion to be named Srdjan Smiljanic and Branko Marinkovic as deputy secretary general of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please press the tasters. A total of 200 MPs voted for – 200 MPs. I find the National Assembly unanimously appointed Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly Srdjan Smiljanic and Branko Marinkovic. Let me congratulate Srdjan Smiljanić and Branko Marinkovic on the appointment of Deputy Secretary-General and wish them success in performing this function. Also, I'm making an appointment right now, but I don't know if it's necessary in writing, but we'll start the discussion in detail and the vote on the first item of the agenda at 10:00 p.m. And, just once again, to remind you that the most important thing awaits us next week, and that is the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that the session should be held on Wednesday. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 107 MPs, with that information probably half an hour before this. In order to determine the exact number of present in the O.R., please ask the MP to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. The system says 180 MPs are in the O.R. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are working conditions. As I will remind you, as you know, but because of the public, it takes at least 84 MPs to attend, and we now have 187. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the first item of the agenda on the draft law on ministries. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic and Selma Kučević, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic, Ardend Bajrami and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the opinion of the proposing representatives on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri and Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. You have received the proposal's representative's opinion on the amendments submitted and the committee's reports. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, George Milicevic.
