ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Before we move to the agenda, please honor the late patriarch of Serbia, Mr. Irine, with a moment of silence. May it be his eternal glory. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 152 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 186 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation? The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u704	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the ruling coalition has always had the willingness and will to listen to suggestions and suggestions of one part of the opposition, in fact the entire opposition, but here I deliberately point out – one part of the opposition, when it comes to electoral conditions. We also discussed this at the Faculty of Political Sciences, although I do not know why we had the talks there, because such talks are being held in the institutions of the system, they are being held in parliament, we have also discussed in the framework of inter-party dialogue and in these talks and the ruling coalition, but also the working group of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown one responsible, serious and dedicated approach. The task force did not declare and formally deal with this issue, but proposed very concrete amendments and amendments to the law. One part of the ruling coalition saw these talks as a farce, as an opportunity to deceive the public, to present himself as a victim at that time, even though they knew that there was only one way out of their political situation, which is a desperate and losing move, which they took – a boycott of the election. They were not interested in the elections, they were not interested in election conditions, they were only interested in one thing – to present themselves as victims and to try to reach power and privilege, if possible, without a choice. While representatives of the ruling coalition discussed these important topics in the system's institutions, part of the opposition there discussed it in hotel lobbys. Otherwise, what kind of conversations are these if that part of the opposition comes to one meeting and says – or 42 demands or boycotts. I'm sorry, it's not a space for a deal, it's not a space for any compromise solution. The biggest part of what was agreed during the inter-party dialogue is actually everything, because I have an agenda here, I participated in the talks and everything we agreed during the inter-party dialogue was implemented. This was also the attitude of European parliamentarians who participated in the talks and who said there was a constructive approach, that a qualitative step forward, leading to a democratic spirit, was made. Why did I do this as an introduction to a question I wanted to ask you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? For one simple reason, because the last days in public are once again trying to make some part of the opposition an atmosphere in which they will be victims. Among other things, they, President, say that you said you were against dialogue and that you were against talks on election conditions. I know it wasn't your finding, but I think it's important that because of the citizens of Serbia, for the sake of the public, you answer whether you said it that way or said that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the highest body of the legislative authority has its own dynamics, has its priorities and the moment it is realised what is agreed will make adequate decisions in this context. I know and I have information, Mr. President, that both Mr. Bilchik and Mrs. Tanya Fajon spoke to you. Tanja Fajon, who was very active in the elections in Serbia, and not only in the parliamentary elections, but also, I do not know if Mr Birmancevic is there from SNS, but also in the local elections in Sapac, which is personally unimaginable for me. It is inconceivable for me that someone interprets and analyzes in a negative context the turnout of the elections in the parliamentary elections in Serbia, where there was an turnout of about 50%, and has been elected European parliamentarian at 28%. So she didn't win 28%, but she participated and was elected to the 28% turnout elections. Did they in that letter, Mr. President, direct any date and any deadlines and to whom, Mr. President, do we need to speak? With extraparliamentary clients? Well, there's a lot of them today. Do we need to satisfy all of them in order to have some ideal electoral conditions even though they haven't changed since 2008, but only last year did they remember that we should talk about it. Do not in such a way underestimate and degrade Serbian citizens because our society and citizens have the ability to recognize the right values and what they want and what Serbia wants and what Serbia wants and what they said in parliamentary elections. Should we talk to the European Parliamentarians? We have no problem listening to their suggestions and suggestions. We respect Mr. Kukan and Mr. Flakenstein... Just another half minute. You're mostly cutting off my time. (President: How I deny it. It's five and 35 now.) I think you're just doing this to me. Back off from those 20 minutes later when I speak. It's only half a minute. I'm kidding, of course. Just another 20 seconds. We have no problem listening to their suggestions and suggestions, but, Mr. President, let's stop and let's make it impossible for someone to insult Serbian democracy. We have no problem listening to the non-governmental sector, but the NGO sector cannot be the organizer and moderator of such talks and in some way bind our hands, ask us to come out with a concrete attitude, to raise their price, thus binding our hands, and yet we do not have a position at that time in a part of the opposition that was then parliamentary. If you can please, since the Rules of Procedure allow it, you do not have to answer in writing, but you can immediately if you are able to provide an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u705	Thank you. Since you asked me, so that there would be no written response, I have repeatedly spoken and I will repeat and now that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will meet what it has committed itself to, and that means that inter-party dialogue will be continued as planned, as it was done through the exchange of letters between McAllister and then the president of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic. You well know, you participated in this, that there were three sessions on the subject and that there was then planned to be a second phase of this dialogue, following parliamentary elections, with the aim of serving as a good preparation to end and to be fruitful until the next parliamentary elections. In that sense, I said that the agenda of the National Assembly is not to have dialogue, but to fulfil our constitutional and legal obligations and that our agenda is now to bring about budget rebalancing, budget, etc., considering that neither the European Parliament is now working because of the pandemic, that it is not realistic to expect that there will be a continuation of dialogue in this year, especially because the elections, as the President of the Republic said, will be held at the latest, or in April 2022. In that sense, I do not see that there are any gaps between our position and the attitude of the European Parliament's representatives, who themselves are considering next year as time to maintain and continue inter-party dialogue. So it's absolutely incorrect for us to change our attitude to what we used to be, but I absolutely agree that no one can determine our agenda on the side. We are no one's exposition here, but the most representative body and holders of the legislative and executive authority of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. The word is Mirsad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u706	Your Honor, I refer my first question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. We know that natural resources and human resources and business conditions determine the life and economic potential of a territory, determine whether people in that territory are satisfied or feel powerless. That's why they run to bigger cities or abroad. No one escapes from good life and conditions. Natural resources are a great advantage of some territory. The more natural resources are used in some environments, the better conditions for life. In Sandzak, however, local self-government and the population have none of it, everything is controlled by other municipalities, such as Ivanica, Kraljevo, Užice, Vranje, etc. I will list several drastic examples from Sjenica, and such a situation is less, more across the Sandzak and Presevo Valley. The Sjenica forests belong to Ivanjica, the forests of Tutina, the New Pazara belong to the King and so on. Every year, thousands of cc's of trees are cut off in the Shadow territory. Forests and roads are being destroyed, and local self-government and the population are not benefiting. We're not in a position to bring in investors to process wood for obstructions from Ivanjica. I ask the minister to explain to me why Ivanjici was given the right to decide on the fate of Sjanica and its citizens? On the territory of Sjenica springs seven rivers that form a stream of Uvac, where there are three artificial lakes. There's a special Uvac reserve on Lake Shadow. The habitat is the white-headed soup and meanings that are considered the world's wonder of nature, with an icy cave that is one of the most beautiful in the world. All of this is located in the territory of Sjenica, and the management of the reserve is given to Novi Varoša, which is another proof of the abduction of natural resources to the municipality of Sjenica. The fishing company Sjenica was founded in 1958 and each year it takes overfishing of Uvec and Vape, but fishing permits, as well as boat licenses, fees and entry into the reservation and cave systems are paid to Novi Varoša. I ask the Government to return the reservation to the management of the Sjenica Municipality, which means collecting taxis, issuing boat licenses and fishing permits. I refer my second question to the Minister for Mining and Energy. In fact, Sjenica is one of Europe's coldest cities. It's warm season for nine months, temperatures drop below minus 40 degrees. In happy countries, such territories are tax-free and have other advantages. It would be logical to make it possible, in such harsh conditions, for citizens to buy wood, coal and electricity at lower prices. The Stavalj mine belongs to the Resavit mines. It produces 80,000 tonnes of coal annually, and the shadow community and the population have no use for it. The law says local self-government belongs to a mining rental. That's why I ask Minister Mihajlović - why - no mining rent is paid to Sjenici? However, despite the fact that the citizens have been denied a mine rent, guaranteed by law, our public institutions, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, religious facilities are forced to buy coal from their mines through intermediaries, of course at a higher price. Why at least these facilities don't get free coal, as part of the mining rent? I refer the third question to the Minister of State Administration and local self-government and the Ministers of Culture and Information and ask them for information – what will the ministry do about the exclusion of heating at the Sultan Valida mosque by the illegal municipal government in Sjenica? This mosque was declared a monument of culture, of great importance. It was renovated by the Turkish agency TIKA, and at the request of the Office for the Protection of Kings, as the only Imperial Mosque in Serbia. What kind of messages are being sent to citizens when someone for political reasons plays like this with one monument and the religious feelings of citizens? I'm asking the department of command to do everything in their power to re-engage the mosque without delay. I expect answers to questions on the legal deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u707	Snow White, you asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, but we didn't open the session. The word is Dragan Markovic Palm.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u708	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one question and one proposal. The question is for the Minister of Agriculture – how can we stop farmers from working for buyers and traders? It's never been more cheap than the last few months. If a calf costs 600 euros and has to be guarded by a agricultural producer from nine to 12 months ago, then once the thong was 2.2 euros a few months ago, and today it is 1.7 and that the price in butchers remained the same. Where's the money going? So double damage for both the agricultural producer and the buyers, all those who go to the shops, butcher shops to buy, what's called a consumer basket. Given that once a year the farmer receives a salary, once a year there is money, which has 10 heroes in the barn, he loses between 3,000 and 4,000 euros annually. I'm not saying it's the Minister of Agriculture's fault, but it's going to have to be included in the inspection, to see where that price difference goes, that it happens like now, that those who deal with meat processing and sell fresh meat in butchers earn twice as much as the purchase price. My second proposal is that Veljko Odalovic, Secretary of Parliament, is appointed to go to visit the hospital staff, to visit the MPs, to see what health status they are in, and to give the report to parliament, and already today to do so, given that he has immunity, that he is not afraid, that the best someone who has nothing to do with health, and has no virus, has no symptoms, he is a healthy man, and there is no big job in parliament, to be his task. I'm sure all those patients who are there have maximum service, but we also get advice when it comes to prevention and from someone who isn't a health care professional or a doctor. To thank both health care professionals and doctors. Every day we get information that one of our friends has received the virus, but what's worse, I'm sure more than 20% of Serbian citizens have the virus and no symptoms. Now that it's said - I was at a rally, no one had a fever, and after three or four or five days, a person got infected or got a crown. Ladies and gentlemen, once again to appeal to reduce a little bit, I won't say propaganda, it's not propaganda, but a little less media message, that every day we listen to him die this long, the day after tomorrow. We have to work and carry that virus, like it's just a flu, make factories, make our kids go to school. Here, some cities have introduced, this is a question for the Minister of Education, some cities themselves have introduced and decided that students do not go to schools. The city can't have that autonomy. The autonomy of children has parents and parents if they agree that their child goes to school, that child should go to school or kindergarten. So, please, President of the Assembly, to consult with Veljko, since he has no right to discuss whether or not he accepts this proposal. I can't suggest he put himself to the vote, but he really needs to go and see all the patients. I don't know at this point how many people's MPs are infected. What I know is that there are more than four. We need to work and we must not be intimidated by the crown, by our MPs, by us who do not have the virus, and we have no symptoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u709	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Nebojsa Bakarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u710	The Honorable chairman, honourable MPs, respected citizens, has been campaigning for six days against the President of the Republic and the late patriarch Irinej. They asked why Vukic spoke at the funeral of Patriarch Irineus? Well, because he's the best president. He's the pride of Serbia. They asked why Vukic criticized Tadic when he spoke in 2010 at the funeral of Patriarch Paul? Well, because Tadic is the worst president in Serbia's history, Serbia's shame. It's very simple. I'm asking the Ministry of the Interior and the D.A.'s Office for Organized Crime for an investigation conducted last year against Gilas and his associates on suspicion of damage to RTS by 688 million dinars. Last July, Minister Stefanovic confirmed that the tycoon, Gilas, is being investigated for suspected involvement in the RTS robbery. It has been said that there is a reasonable doubt that Gilas and his directors at the Darekt Media, together with part of the RTS leadership, participated in serious corruption in connection with the purchase and sale of advertising seconds of different TV shows, under conditions that are not provided for by law. On the order of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, 28th of last year, it was announced that an investigation was launched, and that because of the crimes of abuse of the responsible person's position in the extended duration against the natural and legal persons "Darrekt Media". I will also remind this, as city councilman for 12 years, I have witnessed how it was also done in "Study B" for those five years while Gilas was mayor, and "Studio B" was city television financed by the City of Belgrade. Is there a bigger conflict of interest? And that's what we need to investigate. What's interesting is that Gilas, in an open letter, published in "Today" on 22.11.2018, admitted, pay attention -- admitted that one of his companies had received 291m euros. But Gilas didn't have only one big firm, he had two and a series of smaller ones. So, when it all came together, Gilas's companies for his ten years in politics for three functions, he was the director of the Office of the President of the Republic, the minister, the mayor, for ten years his companies were at the three state functions which he had earned 619m euros in business income and 106m euros in net profit. How is that possible? Is this achieved through abuse of official position and trade in influence? I will remind you that President Vukic has identified the fight against the mafia as one of six priorities. Is the mafia and crime exactly when the yellow tycoon politician achieves over ten years in government functions and his 619m-euro business income? Of course it is. Is crime the arrest of 55 co-workers of the yellow tycoon politician, 50 of them related to the City of Belgrade, where they are accused of being damaged by the City of Belgrade in eight affairs by 10m euros, and five of his associates who have been accused of damageing RTS by about sixm euros? A tycoon politician, you won't believe, claims all these 55 people are innocent. That's impossible. Is it a crime when a yellow tycoon politician has spent ten years usurping the Belgrade City garage and parking facilities? Does crime represent when the brother-in-law of a yellow tycoon politician gets caught smuggling 2.4 kilos of cocaine? Is that what crime is when the closest associate of the yellow tycoon politician in Kurzumlia is arrested with 66 kilos of marijuana? Does crime represent when Marinika Tepic, vice president of the yellow tycoon politician, and when her closest friend and associate is arrested for unauthorized production and placing on the market 1.4kg of intoxicating drugs and engaged in illicit production, holding and trafficking of weapons and explosive materials? Does crime represent when Marinika Tepic asks her closest friend and associate to move out of Pančev's journalist Mic Milakov? It's all a crime, it's a mob. We're gonna beat the mob! Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u711	Thank you. There are no more logs here on my screen. I apologize, Djura Peric reported in the meantime. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u712	Dear President of the National Assembly of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question and a proposal for a finance minister, and this is the next. We already have nine months of this coronary virus, you don't know how much longer it's going to last, and I have to say that to prevent these infections that are going to take a lot of spending to get those protection funds, such as masks, larger amounts of soap, disinfection, etc., so my suggestion is that the Ministry of Finance for employees and pensioners who have received below 30,000 dinars provide one-time assistance, so that they can get it, and I hope that the Honorable Minister Sinisha is a small master and creator of these fiscal and monetary combinations, and that she will be able to find in this budget proposal with the next year's funds, to help these most vulnerable who don't have the option, and that's not so little, because we all know very well how much it amounts and what it means to such people. Thank you, and I hope you accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u713	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u714	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. Namely, the municipality of Prepolje has an area of 827 square kilometers and is divided into 75 catastrian municipalities. There have been errors in several catastrian municipalities such as Kovacevic, Brodarevo, Sedobro, Ivanje and others. These errors represent differences between the border and the border between 40cm and 2mm. So it happens that two houses are beautiful, but because of the mistake mentioned, it turns out that one house goes into another 40, 60 or sometimes more centimeters, which is not logical because no one would build a house that way. This is causing major problems among citizens in relation to property relations, leading to a conflict between the border neighbours of catastrian parcels, and judicial disputes that do not see an end, or how it will end, and judges are also in trouble with how to rule over an unclear situation. My question is - what will the Republic Geodetic Institute, or Catastran, do to correct errors in the border and border between the cadastrian parcels in order to resolve the current situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u715	Thank you. There's no one else reported. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the sittings of the MP and vice president of the Elvira Kovac National Assembly. You were presented with the minutes of the Second and Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. Since there has been no objection, I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered in writing any observations on those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 172, did not vote – 14. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the minutes of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: total – 189, for – 176, did not vote – 13. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the assembly of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group has proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 November 2020, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 191, for – 179, did not vote – 12. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. The SPAS parliamentary group has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 November 2020, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 191, for – 178, did not vote – 13. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly proposed that the draft decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 November 2020, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 191 for – 180, no vote – 11. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 November 2020. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 191, for – 182, did not vote – nine. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you that the Government is under Article 159(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, written on 20 November, withdrew the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of the Postage Savings Bank of Belgrade, the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. and the Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad under the long-term loan agreement for the construction of a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia through investment in the capital of the South Stream Serbia AG, Zug, Switzerland, which is proposed to be considered as the 13th point of the proposed agenda of this session. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic proposed, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) of Articles 170 and 192 of Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to carry out under 1) a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Customs Service, which was submitted by the Government. Under 2), a joint principled and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, a draft emergency response of the Republic of Serbia to Kovid 19 between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, submitted by the Government; a proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Framework Agreement on the Treaty on the loan of the Republic of Serbia to the Bank for the Development of the Public Sector, support for the efforts of the Republic of Serbia towards the mitigation of the pandemic Kovid 19, which was submitted by the Government; the proposal of the Treaty on the Charter of the Republic of Serbia on the Framework Agreement on the loan of LD 2025-2019 between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia to the programme loan, energy efficiency in the buildings of the central government, which the law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted; the proposal for the Treaty on the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the European Union, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the law of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the law of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Republic to the law of the law of the law of the Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: 191 in total for – 176, it did not vote – 15. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Otherwise, I would like to say that we have scheduled this session seven days before the meeting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and as promised to amend all legal acts, that is to say, by regular procedure. This has led to a change in the rules of procedure for the amendment to be submitted three days before the debate begins. We simply want the more our Parliament is working on a regular procedure, not counting, of course, on a situation where there is an urgent matter of state interest or an emergency situation, or on acts taken by the Assembly itself, which primarily concern the selection of certain committees, i.e. personnel issues. Since we have agreed on proposals to put on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I put the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote on the draft agenda, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Finalising vote: 193, for – 181, did not vote – 12. I find that the National Assembly of Most Votes established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, in general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, on the basis of Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following the urgent procedure of the agenda of the session, the point of entry — Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 November. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Finalising vote: 193, for – 181, did not vote – 12. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda we voted on. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1695/20 of 6 November 2020) 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1701/20 of 6 November 2020) 5/3 JJ/CG 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1702/20 of 6 November 2020) 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1703/20 of 6 November 2020) 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1707/20 of 6 November 2020) 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (The Emergency Response of the Republic of Serbia to COVID-19) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment , which was submitted by the Government( number 011-1694/20 since 6 November2020 )7 . Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement on the loan of LD 2053(2020 ) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia to finance the public sector - support for the efforts of the Republic of Serbia to alleviate theCOVID- 19pandemic , which was submitted by the Government( number 011-1696/20 since 6 November2020 )8 . Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement on the loan of LD 2025(2019 ) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for a programme loan - Energy efficiency in central governmentbuildings , submitted by the Government( number 011-1697/20 since 6 November2020 )9 . Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement on LD 2026(2019 ) loan between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the Programme Loan - Water supply and wastewater treatment plants submitted by the Government( number 011-1698/20 since 6 November2020 )10. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW) and the Republic of Serbia (the Borrower) represented by the finance minister for the project "Rehabilitation of the remote heating system in Serbia, phase V", which was submitted by the government (number 011-1699/20 of 6 November 2020) 11. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW) and the Republic of Serbia (the Borrower) represented by the Minister of Finance for the project "Energy Efficiency in Public Objects, Phase II", which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1700/20 of 6 November 2020) 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Regulation of Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign savings from citizens laid down by banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1704/20 of 6 November 2020) 13. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of a member of the Fiscal Council, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds (number 02-1579/20 of 28 October 2020) 14. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS Parliamentary Group (number 02-1597/20 of 29 October 2020) 15. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS Parliamentary Group (number 02-1686/20 of 5 November 2020) 16. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Serbia Parliamentary Group (number 02-1757/20 of 12 November 2020) 17. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPAS Parliamentary Group (number 02-1753/20 of 12 November 2020) 18. Proposal for a decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, submitted by the President of the National Assembly (number 02-1784/20 of 13 November 2020) 19. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, submitted by the President of the National Assembly (number 02-1783/20 of 13 November 2020) 20. Proposal for a decision on selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which was tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law (number 02-1867/20 of 23 November 2020). I would also like to do so before we go into debate, that is, before I give my proposal, according to Article 27, and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I would also like just for the sake of better information and planning of our work to pass on what we talked about today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia College, which is that given the information that there are no amendments to this first set of laws, which means there will be no discussion in particular, and given the proposal by Dr Martinovic, who we adopted on the merger of points, or a united debate that will practically be in four continents, meaning laws, international agreements, on staff issues here in the Assembly and a fourth on a proposal for selecting Commissioners for the Protection of Equality. The intensity to work, that is, to conclude today's principle debate under this first group of laws. Tomorrow is about international agreements and contracts and about these staff issues, and on Thursday, we would continue the debate on the Commissioner and it would be a day to vote. I am talking about planning the work of the Assembly and of course the application for discussion. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings of Siniš Mali, Finance Minister Slavica Savičić and Daniel Vazura, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Snezana Karanovic and Dr Dragan Demirović, v.d. Assistant Finance Minister Milena Tadic and Ljiljana Petrovic, Head of Finance Department, Marijan Blesic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Finance, Jelena Dragojlovic, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Milanka Markovic, adviser at the Ministry of Finance. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to carry out a joint principled search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 to 5 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax System and the Tax Administration, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Property, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Law, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act. All these bills were submitted by the government. As far as I'm concerned, here's your chance to report to the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u716	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, I am advertising Article 27, which says – the National Assembly president represents the National Assembly, convenes its meetings, chaires them and does other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. Dear President, it would be in accordance with the law if all present MPs had masks. If we had the awareness that such a law was passed to Serbian citizens, that is, obliging them to wear masks, then it would be correct and responsible both for all of us and for those to whom we will return when we leave the Assembly to act in accordance with the laws we have passed. In that sense, I ask you, in accordance with your powers, to intervene and warn colleagues who, however confident or whatever they may be, thus presenting themselves to us are both honest and correct and use masks while we sit in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u717	I thank you for this intervention. Given the business provisions, I should now ask you, since my explanation is such that I absolutely agree with what you said, I call on all MPs to follow all the measures that are necessary to prevent all the negative consequences that can come about and because of our work here, given that there are 250 of us, whether you want to make it clear, surely you don't want to. (Snezana Paunovic: No. ) I thank the People's MP, Snezani Paunovic. Now I'd like to ask the minister, since he's going to propose, to apply. Here you go, Mr. Minister. You're our frequent guest here and for now our first guest from the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u718	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, if you'll excuse me, before I begin to explain these five laws before you today, to share with you and with the citizens of Serbia a good news from last night. So, the Republic of Serbia went to the international financial market for the second time yesterday. We went out to the London Stock Exchange and offered a bond of $1200,000 to refinance, or return the sum, to the most expensive bond that was issued in 2011. Not only did we succeed, we had six times the demand of the offer. More than 200 investors of the world's largest have reported to buy our bond, but we have managed to achieve a historic score for our country, for the citizens of Serbia. We were able to broadcast that bond at a rate of 2,125%, and in 2011, which some previously broadcast, was at a rate of 7.25%. So three and a half times better, three and a half times more successful. This tells you enough about the trust that foreign investors have in both the Republic of Serbia and our economic policy and this is the best and greatest indicator that the rate of growth in our GDP that will be the highest in Europe this year shows its result. In particular, let me tell you one thing, that in 2011 they issued a bond at an interest rate of 2,125% like us, and not of 7.25%, the total savings would have been 61.5 billion dinars. Over 500 million euros. Dear MPs, for this money, we could have made five new clinical centres, such as today the one we're building in Belgrade. What we did further, I want to inform you, not only did we get the historic lowest rate in dollars, but we, on the same day, based on the analysis we did, went one step further, never happened in our country, which is why I'm a little bit and especially happy about it, so on the same day, we were running dollars into the euro and we got a rate in Euros of 1,066%. Never in our country's history on any of the records we've broadcast has it been a lower rate. So, we're not increasing public debt, we're returning the loans and we're returning the bonds that someone else took before us, which, in particular, came in September 2021 and we're reducing the cost of our public debt. I'm very proud of it and I want all citizens to know that we did the right thing yesterday and that this is the need for the correctness of our economic policy and that's what the international financial market says, according to the London Stock Exchange, that's what international investors say. It is the biggest and best confirmation of what we do in Serbia. Now let me get back to today's agenda. So, honourable Members of the People, there are five laws before you, altering and supplementing three taxes and two customs laws. I'll just be brief and, of course, I'll stay at your disposal for all the additional questions you have about it. Therefore, the first law is to amend and supplement the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The biggest change relates to the simplification of tax procedures. For those who are required to refund and re-write or more paid or wrongly paid taxes, as well as the requirements for the deferral of the payment of taxes will be allowed to do so via an e-portal of the tax administration, so electronically. We're speeding up, simplifying procedures. When it comes to amending the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, we are also abolishing, reducing a lot of taxis to reduce the environment, i.e. the burden on the economy and reducing it. The amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act, which is a very important amendment, are therefore introduced in the paper that the inheritance and gift tax and the tax on the transfer of absolute rights will no longer work by the tax administration, but will be transferred to local self-government. This is a tax source, i.e. a source of income for local self-government, so on the one hand, we reduce the tax burden the tax administration has. It can deal with its original activities and powers, and on the other hand we allow local self-governments to be properly organised and to maximise tax collection, what their income represents. These changes take effect on 1 January 2022. So we give enough time to do all this in practice. When they change and supplement the Customs Code, we change two members. What's most important is that we move deadlines when the customs debt is outdated, so we give the state a chance for a long time to give the state a chance to react and protect its interests. Finally, the proposed amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act are extended by a circle of customs officers who are authorised to initiate the customs infringement procedure. In this way, these customs procedures, i.e. customs offences, will be faster and more effective. So much for me. I'm staying at my disposal along with my team for all the questions you can have. It's about very important laws, it's about laws we're in spite of Kovid-19 and despite all the other obligations we have, long and precise work to improve on the one hand and the work of the customs administration, on the other hand, and the work of the tax administration. In voting day, I hope you will support these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u719	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u720	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this is good news that Serbia is on the London Stock Exchange. What does that mean? This means that at least twice as much foreign investors will be interested in bringing money to Serbia, opening new jobs, and it is not just the creation of new jobs, but increased production of domestic factories and capacities. What this state and this government care about is domestic factories, owners of Serbians, those who have a tradition for over 30, 40 years that individual companies exist. It's very important and the stability of dinars, which in continuity, for eight years now, the course is stable, that there is that the credit ability of formal legal persons, in a formal legal sense, legal persons, natural persons, means that today if someone has something to guarantee that they will repay the loan, they can get credit. If the project and the plan and the feasibility study, as it is said economically, is positive, that person can count on credit. Also, I would like to commend the delay in paying taxes to those entities who may not have charged their products at the moment and sold to someone, and there are such cases, especially when it comes to export-export. It's import-export, for those who don't know, that because of the crown it's both reduced and traffic flow and all that's called the transaction, when it comes to payment. Also, there are two things that are important for local self-government, taxes on absolute rights. Otherwise, it's tax when you sell some real estate, a certain percentage is paid, for those who don't know, whether or not the ministers, those funds go to local self-government and they're going to increase so-called. "original revenues" and the original revenues are what is guaranteed to local self-government, and of course it is also very important and economic stability of the state and what is called the regular obligation of the state in terms of wages, pensions, that they are regular, and not only are they regular but they are also increasing. In particular, Minister, I would like to commend that next year, pensions will be paid by Swiss model. Switzerland is one of the most stable states. You know how the Swiss franc jumped, and then he had to react to both the IMF and some big forces to stop, thank God, that the state came out to meet those who took loans in Swiss francs. Also, I have not been able to read all these bill proposals, but in the presentation of the minister when it comes to old foreign currency savings, is it so, Ministers, that those who had and bloodyly earned money in the sweat of their faces and not only in Serbia, but also as gastarbitters in a country, that these funds will be paid in a certain period of time. If we are now comparing ourselves with some countries that are much stronger than Serbia seven years ago and today, both in economic terms and in terms of health and military terms, and that we are competing now, and not only to compete with these countries, but we are defeating them, and this is not said by the president of Serbia, ministers, the president of the Assembly, some other committee, as we Pomorants would say, on the basis of some criteria and that Serbia has a good future. A country that has a good future also has independence. That it will no longer happen as in earlier years to ask us and something that is against our will that sometimes we can say no, because we do not depend on helping the international, to give us money not to return or sell something like some powerful EU countries have done. They took too long, and then they had to sell something that was a huge fortune for them. I don't want to talk about what countries it's about, but I'm going to say that Italy was once a symbol in everything for Serbia. Today we are past one powerful Italy and that Italy may be the most in debt in Europe per capita. So, in any segment, in any area when it comes to economics and finance, we can go out on the line and say – if Serbia is no longer what it used to be. The name alone remains the same, and the system has changed, the way it works and what is called security, which is most important for every family member in Serbia. We're almost trying to stop young people from leaving, but when it comes to leaving, you know how many citizens of Serbia are returning from EU countries to Serbia and say – if people are, Serbia is the safest state in both health and economic terms. In some countries, they pay for checks when they go to the hospital, and we don't get paid. They pay for the test, 250 euros per test, per patient. It's zero with us. Someone needs to provide that money and that money and help the citizens. I was talking a little before about agriculture that the difference between the price produced by the ordinary agricultural producer and the prices found in butchers, in slaughterhouses, but the same state can boast that there were 15,000 dinars of subsidies on the throat, and that now another 20,000 are promised, is that right, Minister? So that's where the state jumped in, if it's not guilty, and there's no responsibility that the prices in the butcherhouses are the same, and their purchase price is less than 30% to 40%. That is why Unique Serbia will vote for this set of laws because we believe that this set of laws has no harm, and it will benefit every citizen in this country, every man and we have a good future. What else is most important? That there's a vision with logic. The vision with logic is not intuition, so now you say - I feel something. A vision with logic is not intuition. Now you say, "I feel something." But when you have a vision of logic in an economic sense, you don't go to a trade and buy, so they give you a book to read, but you work in life, you feel on your skin how, compared to your neighbor, I mean some other countries, and then you realize that you're doing well. You know, everywhere in the world the opposition is criticizing. But I very rarely hear that they're criticizing some law now, but something else, which has nothing to do with today. Today's time eight or nine years ago is not to compare, in any sense, especially as this crown is stronger than NATO aggression. We just need to see how to save lives, how as few people as possible, far away, what happens is the worst. Prevention is very important. The prevention is also not bought on the trade. Each of us is making a stand for ourselves, for our family and for those we hang out with. And prevention is the advice of the profession, to wear masks and keep that physical distance, not social, as some say, because physical distance is very important. What's most important? When we meet at any gathering, whether it's fame, parliament, we talk 95% of the time of the crown. Corona became an integral part of not our life, but of stories. Avoid talking less about the crown. We need to talk about nice things, about positive things, about kids being born in this country, about boasting about the results, and about being something that's going to be a topic every day, not afraid of others and ourselves. This isn't about courage. Of course, if anyone says - I'm not afraid of it, there's something wrong with it. But also, keep that fear to yourself if you have it, don't pass on to others. And not when he comes back, now, you say to the family -- oh, man, as they say, Palma said two MPs got sick. Well, why would we keep it a secret? It's better for MPs to get a crown than for ordinary people who look at us over little screens. Of course, I don't want you to have a crown, I did, and I know what it means, but I wasn't a difficult patient, and I didn't feel anything. Ladies and gentlemen, we have something to brag about. My coalition of the SPS and Unique Serbia has supported this government since 2012 and we have not been wrong. We don't care about functions, especially for us from JS and our coalition partner SPS. It is important to us that wherever we stop people say – you do good work, has a result, this result is visible and not only statistically. You know what, one man told me - let go of the statistics, when you put your hand in your pocket, pocket empty. And when was that in your pocket? You forget what your salary is now, and how much it used to be for you. There's something else I need to say. They say President Vukic shouldn't have spoken at the Patriarch's funeral. Guys, he's this country and government. So many churches were built and invested and it's not to compare to 10 years ago and today. His speech wasn't political at all. That speech was Orthodox, emotional, and that speech was that those who hated it, too, said, "Hey, you're right about everything you said." We don't abuse any events now, so there's nothing more to talk about, so you're talking about the event. Time is not the same, and you can't go back and say it – you're saying it now, now you're talking like this, as it isn't in 1999, when we were bombed by NATO villains, and a large number of these countries are now coming to Serbia and some of their officials, etc. So we can't go back decades and compare what we said and what we're saying today. Today's work is the most important thing. The theory is something to be forgotten, and the work can't be forgotten. He can't forget the highway, he can't forget "Belgrade on Water", he can't forget everything that's been done, clinical centres, hospitals, etc. Where would these sick people put me if it wasn't so much invested in health care? Even certain halls of sports began to fill with patients. We hope that we will reduce the number of infected and that Serbia will take the path it has been going so far. This path is the path of development, the path of the future, the path of the economy and the path of awe. They never saw our neighbours with awe of Serbia, and now there is awe in every sense of that word, in any segment. We've even become a tourist center, even though we don't have the sea. Imagine! You know what they say. Hungary has a fleet and there's no sea. We became a transit state, where huge money was taken from transit, so you needed some money to invest in the roads. Serbia is safe and safe and economically. Foreign investors only come where their money is safe and only where the laws will not be changed every six months and that they come when it's an old law, to suit them, and later to have a strong lobby say – what will a producer from Germany, Italy and France do to us, if we can do it ourselves. We should respect everything and open the borders for every investor, for every man. Be sure, the big capitalists from these countries I mentioned won't go to another country if they're sick, so we're afraid they'll bring us the virus. But when we say -- we're open to you, come, we have factories that do what we do and see how to get into the markets of the international where some factories from some countries have stopped working and we become suppliers of these factories. It's very important to be a bigger supplier today than to be a customer. There's something called inputs, and the inputs are repromatter and we're producers because where production is, where there are fewer services in percentages when it comes to financial inflows, where the larger production that state is stable, and that state can't say anything or blackmail it. When it comes to the military and the police and we have something to brag about and, people, there's a lot of money. We got something for free from our friends. If you are not powerful, not to go to war, but to let some know if they raise their hands on you again, or those invisible angels, the villains, as they called them before, that those who are in heaven above Serbia will not go well. A unique Serbia will vote for this proposed set of laws and that the budget will be in this direction in the next time period, in the direction that the rebalancing was before I know how many days here in parliament, that every man in Serbia is benefiting and that Serbia is moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u721	Thank you. The word is Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u722	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I believe that these three taxes and two customs laws that are on the agenda today are in fact laws that define a stable legal framework when we talk about the fiscal policy plan. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration has been directed, I would say, to three objectives, i.e. three segments. The first of them is focused on open investment funds. Open investment backgrounds, unlike closed up so far, had no legal personality status, although they were entered in accordance with the law in the relevant register. In this way we now regulate the work of open investment funds by covering them in our tax system. More specifically, it was necessary to bring the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration into line with other laws in this area in order for open investment funds, i.e. alternative investment funds, to be part of the tax system. By investing in funds, investment funds aim to make as much money as possible. They usually invest funds in debt securities of value and, of course, their goal depends on whether they want greater or lower profits, to have a higher or lower level of risk. And it should always be kept in mind when we talk about legal regulation of the work of investment funds. And the objective of tax regulation is precisely to balance, the balance between those investing from investment funds on the one hand, very important legal certainty, and on the other hand, it is important to know what their tax obligations are, because they still invest certain funds. In Serbia, ten investment funds are operating today, and I am sure it is important for all to operate in one environment that has a stable legal framework, operate at lower or higher risks. There are risks that they can influence, risks that are impossible to influence, and yet when we talk about these risks, one of the risks they face is the risk of changing tax regulations. It is therefore important that by adopting these laws we have a stable legal framework so that investment funds, i.e. investors, can predict the situations that are coming. With us, the work of investment funds, as I say, the public is not familiar with the work of investment funds. We're talking about open investment funds today, and I'm going to indicate how far that investment funds work can go. I'll give you an example of the Norwegian State Investment Fund. The investment fund is now worth three times the annual GDP of Norway, and we know that Norway is one of the richest countries in the world when we talk about GDP per capita. The total value of this fund is so great that in Norway, thanks to the State Investment Fund, every woman, every man, every child today can count on 207,000 dollars, and this fund will certainly, thanks to this professional management and responsibility, continue to work successfully in the future. I've merely led this example to show the importance of the work of one of these organizations. I expect that these amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration will, above all, improve the field of fiscal policy, contribute to the development of funds and capital markets and contribute to strengthening investor confidence and security. This will result in our market being more attractive for both domestic and foreign investors. The second segment refers to simplifying the tax procedure and we are doing so with these new legal solutions, amendments and additions to the law. There is also an effect in this regard, and this is also the third segment relating to improving electronic communication between the relevant tax services and taxpayers. In previous years, a lot has been done in this field, and that is, of course, one progress that is in line with all world trends. We are now passing these amendments and supplementing the law will further improve this field. The proposed amendments allow taxpayers, in certain situations, to communicate electronically with the relevant tax services by means of electronic means. Such are, for example, as stated by the minister earlier, a request for return or re-write the wrongly paid tax, and now these requests can be submitted electronically. This way, through the Tax Administration portal, communication is simpler, communication is more efficient and has positive effects for the relevant services as well as for taxpayers. And the concrete benefit of electronic communication is in saving time, in reducing costs and of course, in increasing efficiency levels. Laws in the field of tax policy are always and largely important for every citizen of every country, namely the Republic of Serbia, whether we are talking about those who, through tax, are full of budget or we are talking about those who make certain contributions in an indirect or direct way from the budget. Tax laws are the cornerstone of every fiscal policy, the cornerstone of every country's fiscal policy, but that's not their only role. I will point out here, and that is exactly what I want to do, a social and social dimension, or a corrective social function, to redistribute the wealth of a society. Social solidarity and social responsibility are the foundations of the SDPS programming principles and we believe that when we always talk about taxes, tax solutions have to be applied by redistributing wealth in a way that the rich pay more taxes in favour of poorer layers of the population, because these poorer layers of the population, I always consider them limited for objective reasons to acquire some minimum wealth that gives them one life worth living. In developed Western countries, such a principle is applied, i.e. progressive taxation, and we want one such principle of taxation to be applicable in our country as well. Of course, none of the laws, nor the tax policy laws are eternal, they require improvement, modernisation, complementarity. So is this Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I must point out that this law is consistent with the time we live in, the 21st century is a century of new technologies, a century of new ideas, new organisations, innovative solutions, a requirement for faster decision-making, both at local level and at higher national levels. After all, we have applied for EU membership, it is necessary to bring our legislation in line with the EU's regulatory state and we are doing so in this way. In this set of amendments to the law, I will also refer to the law amending and supplementing the Law on property taxes. And this law treats open investment funds for the first time as taxpayers and they are now in the same legal position as all taxpayers in Serbia. Article 4 of this Act also introduces the obligation to pay a tax liability for more persons who are co-owners of land, but as having land rights individually less than 10 acres. This will be significant especially for local self-government, as a potential source of income, as many housing units across Serbia in the Catastra of immovableity have registered as co-owners of a yard around residential buildings and now we will allow these changes and additions of laws to allow local self-governments to count on higher income on this basis. I come from the King and I can list some data from my city, which is that on the basis of the property tax, the King's planned incomes on the basis of that tax participate with 11.2% and I must point out that this is a significant share and that thanks to the Serbian government, a major shift has been made regarding the list of all immovableities in the territory of local self-government. I think that is the situation in most other municipalities and cities in Serbia. I hope that this process of legalising illegally built objects will be successfully completed. That, of course, takes extra time, takes extra resources to complete the process, but in any case, I'm sure we're going in the right direction. In this way we will achieve one goal, we will get a greater coverage of taxpayers, and basically any healthy economy and any sound fiscal policy that is more difficult, fairer coverage of taxpayers, and therefore the tax rates in the future can be lower. When I continue to talk about the Law on property taxes, I welcome what is equalizing the depreciation rate for all immovableities in the territories of local self-government, which says this is clearly regulated. Also, the average price of immovableity is defined by now taking an average period of 12 months instead of the earlier 9 that it was. I think this solution is more just than it was in the previous period. Also, a new obligation has been defined, to pay inheritance and gift taxes and the right to digital property. It's exactly the alignment with the time we live in. I'm glad the bill promoter recognized the new circumstances. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support this set of three taxes and two customs laws, we believe that the arguments for changes and additions are good and in the day of voting we will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u723	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u724	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with an associate, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a set of five-law laws on the agenda, three tax laws and two customs laws. The MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union will vote for these laws. I'd like to say a few words about some of the laws ahead of us. First of all, the draft law complements and amends the Customs Act. Applicable Customs Law was passed at the end of 2018 and applied since June 2019. This law is fully in line with EU Customs Law. As we know, our country's primary goal is to become a full member of the EU and then our state authorities have the greatest aim of bringing our national legislation into line with EU legislation and customs laws are between these laws. As I was saying, the law has been applied since 2019 and there has been a significant change in what is now in the bill, and it concerns the payment of customs debt. So far, it's been in the law for three years, and now it's growing to five years and old age to 10 years. I should point out here that limitation deadlines are not subject to compliance with EU Customs Law. We think that certainly the state must protect its interest and that is why we are in favour, in order to increase this period from three to five years. The second law is the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. As we have heard from colleagues, in the proposal of this law open and alternative investment funds become taxpayers. We think it's positive. Their tax obligations are met by a management company managed by those funds. The second newspaper is in improving communication between the taxpayer and the tax administration. As we know, in the last few years, the computer system, the entire processing of the database, communication with the taxpayer has been greatly improved in the last few years. Another change is foreseen here, and this is the requirement of taxpayers to refund more taxes or possibly if it is not in a good place, rather than re-write. The same ones, like the other requirements, are able to make tax returns at home by the computer, because the tax administration's e-portal is capable of doing it anyway. We think it's simpler and easier to communicate between the taxpayer and the tax administration itself. I'd like to make a few more suggestions or papers here. First, the obligations of the Agency for Business Registers are specified in the case where taxpayers have been temporarily withdrawn from the FIB and a ban on the acquisition and establishment of new business entities has been established. A new criminal act of tax fraud is prescribed in relation to the additional value tax. The third law he would talk about is a proposal to amend the property tax law. As I said, alternative and open funds also appear as new bonds, but the biggest change is that one part of the tax administration's job will go to local self-government in 2022. Therefore, it is up to local self-government to prepare itself and to do this job regarding gift tax, inheritance and transfer of absolute rights, For the transfer of workers, archives, applications themselves, local self-government have time from 1 November to 31 December 2021. So they have one interval of two months to do this job, because with these local self-government taxes, they have original income. We think the expansion of the IRS with these local self-government jobs is positive. Even here, it should be suggested that this law extends the subject of taxation to the inheritance and gift of digital property. It's still a newspaper in this law. The paper in this law is also that one deadline extends from nine months to 12 months when it comes to the average price or base of property tax in local self-government areas. This means that in every local self-government property tax is paid in areas, depending on which zone an apartment or any immovable property is purchased. The closer the center, it's more equipped this area to the utility and then more worth that property or the house, the apartment or whatever it buys. The tax base was determined by local self-government at an average price. The average price was calculated at the sale of these immovableities in those zones, and the interval of nine months was taken, now extending to 12 months, from 1 October of the previous year to 30 September of the current year, so the interval was extended to 12 months. In this draft law, it is also proposed to establish the tax base of auxiliary facilities to be classified into the same group of real estates where garages are located. As I said at the outset, the SVM parliamentary group will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u725	The word has a folk emissary, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u726	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, at the very beginning of my presentation, I will take advantage of the opportunity to express the deep pain and grief of the death of the patriarch of Serbian Mr Irine. His contribution and importance for the preservation of the unity of the Serb people and the preservation of the Serbian Orthodox Church will be written by history. What I can say is, as someone who comes from Toplice, as someone who comes from Kurzumlia, that just thanks to his blessing and pawnage, after more than 40 years of fighting and waiting, in 2020 we got a completely restored monastery of St. Nicholas. Otherwise, the monastery of St. Nicholas in Kursumlia is the first employee of the great mayor Stefan Nemanje and thanks to the patriarch we managed to restore the monastery that was built eight and a half centuries ago. Patriarch sprays Mr. Irinaus will live forever in our minds and hearts. May his eternal glory be, and thank you. Since this is my first presentation in the 12th National Assembly, I will take the opportunity to congratulate all my colleagues on their appointments and wish them successful work. Speaking of today's agenda, we were able to hear in the prime minister's opening address, and in the course of the debate so far, by colleagues of authorised representatives from other parliamentary groups that today we have five draft laws on the agenda. The amendments and additions to the existing laws are: the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the Law on Property Taxes, the Customs Law and the Customs Service Act. In essence, the proposed amendments and additions to the law are the protection of the financial interest of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, while on the other hand we continue to implement the digitisation measures aimed at simplifying and reducing the performance of certain tasks, both in the private and public sectors. Before I look back at the proposed amendments and the additions to the law, I will take the opportunity to congratulate you, Minister, on everything you've done in countering the effects of the Covid-19 virus. At the beginning of the epidemic itself, you came out with an economic package of support, which is so well arranged that today, when we look at macroeconomic indicators, we get the impression that there are no covids in Serbia at all. I'm primarily thinking about economic growth here. And this year, the rate of economic growth has exceeded all expectations. The finance ministry and the National Bank of Serbia predict that the year will end with a growth rate of minus 1%, the IMF predicts that we will have a minus 1.5% and that is the best result in Europe, given that the average of developed Western European countries is down 7.8%. Even EU Enlargement Commissioner Oliver Varhej said that Serbia's economy is least affected by the covid, thanks exclusively to a comprehensive economic support package. He also said that Serbia is the best in the region and that it is better equipped with the consequences caused by Kovida-19 than any other state. Therefore, recognitions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia come from all sides, both from extremely competent people and from extremely important both European and international institutions. Also, for the seventh year in a row, we manage to maintain a low and stable inflation rate of around 1.5%. If we had preserved monetary stability, the best thing to do is testify to the exchange rate. We today have a strong and stable Serbian dinar. When it comes to public debt, according to the latest data, the public debt rate is slightly below 57% and this is really a great result because 3% is below the Mastricht level1, and when we compare our public debt to developed countries only then we see how well we achieved the good result, because the public debt rate of the most developed Western European countries exceeds even 100% of the gross social product. The difference between us and developed Western European countries is that Serbia itself, through its own means, struggles to contain the consequences caused by this virus, while Western European countries have access to European funds. It is fascinating that even under the conditions of the crisis, we have exceeded the allocations for public investment, by over 27 billion dinars. Here I primarily mean building new roads, railways, rehabilitating existing roads and railways. By the end of the year, we will have two brand-new birds of the hospital, in Kruševec and Batajnica, and then in 2020 we have done much to build the most modern clinical centre in this part of Europe, it is the Clinical Centre of Serbia. This is really interesting for us economists because in times of crisis, what the first thing they do is reduce the budget for public investment. This did not happen in Serbia, because Serbia is run by responsible people whose interest is above personal interest. What's very interesting is, dear ministers, that by the economic support package you have completely avoided a black scenario that would otherwise affect our economy, as has the economy of a large number of countries in the world. The black scenario hit our economy in the year 2000, 2010, so let me say in 2011, when some irresponsible people led our country and our economy and economy not only was it black, but it couldn't have been black. So under the conditions of the epidemic, the state took all the risks and not only were we able to preserve existing jobs, but we were able to reduce the unemployment rate and it is now moving at a record low. When the SNS took over, the unemployment rate was 27%, before the outbreak of the epidemic something below 9.5%, and for the first six months of 2020 7.3%, which is indeed a fascinating result. None of this would have been achieved if we hadn't run a responsible policy for the past seven and a half years, if we hadn't had a surplus in the budget from 2015 to 2019, we'd have a surplus in the budget this year if this situation hadn't happened with a covid. Also, we wouldn't have achieved this if we hadn't started implementing fiscal consolidation measures in 2014 so I mean savings in the public sector. I even think the state of the state register today would be much better if we hadn't had a catastrophic flood in 2014 where the damage was estimated at 14 billion euros. But regardless of all this macroeconomic indicators and how good they are at this point, I can say freely the best in Europe. As the economy stands, the best way to talk about it is to budget inflows based on corporate income tax. So the inflow into the budget has exceeded all expectations regarding obtaining legal entities and as many as 40% of businessmen have not applied for an economic support measure relating to the delay in payment of tax liabilities, which means that the private sector has managed to maintain liquidity in these difficult times and times of crisis. It is an amazingly respected minister how much the subject has changed in Serbia. During the outbreak of the epidemic, during the state of emergency and afterwards in communication with the citizens, I got the impression that the biggest problem of the citizens is whether they will be able to fly or winter out of the country in 2020 or not, will the borders be open or not, so that they can fly or winter? Not so long ago the biggest problem of my parents, neighbors, friends, relatives was how to survive, how to feed their families, how to pay our bills, because a huge number of people were out of work and without any income. Today's biggest problem for citizens is whether they can fly or winter out of the country or not. I also find it fascinating that the price of apartments in Serbia has reached nearly 10,000 euros. The demand for such apartments is extremely envious. Customers are mostly our citizens. It's about athletes, it's about IT employees, then esthetic personalities, people who deal with hotel and catering, and up to a few years ago, the cost of real estate in Serbia has barely reached up to 1,500 euros in the most luxurious locations. Why do I mention this fact? Exactly for reasons, because the price of real estate in one country is the best indicator of the standard of living in a given country. It's all these facts that I've been talking about that are the reason for the enormous hatred and impatience of our political opponents towards us. This is why the names and presidents of the government and the president of the state are given on a daily basis. Why does the president of the state draw a target at the head every day? Well, a political opponent will forgive everything, but success will never forgive. The difference between SNS and our predecessors and our political opponents is that SNS policy is based on the fact that all citizens in Serbia live better today than yesterday, and tomorrow better than today, while the policy of our political opponents and predecessors is that all citizens live up there, so that Dragan Gilas and his self-proclaimed elite live better. Well, such a scenario in Serbia will never happen again. Your respected ministers and all members of the government do not even prevent this crisis from considering the growth of the standard of living of all citizens, so in April of the month you permanently increased the earnings of all health employees by 10%, by the 2021 budget you defined the funds for a new increase in health workers by as much as 5%. That's a huge percentage given the epidemiological situation. You also identified funds to increase the earnings of all public sector employees starting on 1 January at 3.5% of the additional 1.5% of public sector employees from 1 April. Also, as of January 1st, there has been an increase in pensions per Swiss formula, at a rate of 5.9%. We also have a minimum labour price increase, also from January 1st, at a rate of 6.6%. These are all indicators of living standards growth and significant indicators of state in the register, and apparently the state of the government register is extremely good for us. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws on the one hand aim to protect the financial interests of the Republic of Serbia, while on the other hand, we are moving forward with the implementation of the digitisation measure, i.e. by improving electronic communication between tax authorities and taxpayers. On the other hand, the legal solution includes open investment funds and alternative investment funds in the tax system. Given that these funds do not have legal personality status and are subject to the registration of the tax liability on their behalf and their account will be regulated by the management companies of these funds. This will increase investor security and lead to development of the capital market. Legal solutions on the one hand prescribe an increase in tax discipline while on the other hand offering taxpayers a postponement of the payment of the tax liability when conditions exist, then the settlement of the taxpayer's obligation to war. Then, for taxpayers whose debt is more than 50 million dinars, it is offered the possibility to settle their tax obligations by giving certain immovableity, when there is an interest in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the legal solution offers certain benefits for taxpayers. As regards the second item of the agenda, the amendments and additions to the Law on the Republic and Administrative Taxes, the essence of the proposed amendments and additions, are to bring the subject matter into line with the documents and actions which are within the jurisdiction of the national authorities. Otherwise, it's a practice to pass laws like this every year. When it comes to the third item of the agenda, changes and additions to the property tax law are at stake. The paper of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws is as we could hear in the opening presentation by the minister, the transfer of jurisdiction from tax administration to local self-government units when it comes to determining the control and collection of taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, taxes on gifts and inheritance, starting on 1 January 2022. On the one hand, the local self-government unit will have higher income on the basis of these taxes while the tax administration will be able to perform its basic functions more effectively because the tax administration's jurisdiction is reduced when it comes to the transfer of absolute rights in respect of the gift and inheritance tax. The proposed changes and additions also predict that open investment funds and alternative investment funds are tax bonds on property. The legal solution also groups auxiliary facilities along with garages, more detailed and more precise regulation of who has the right to tax exemption and so on. The fourth item of the agenda concerns the Customs Act. As we heard from colleagues in the previous presentation, we adopted the Customs Law completely new, so in 2018. The application started on 17 June 2019. Our Customs Law is fully in line with EU Customs Law, and that is how we fulfilled our obligation under negotiating Chapter 29, which concerns the customs union. This law, which is in force, is good because it monitors the modern trend of globalisation and speeds up the flow of goods through our country. When it comes to amendments and additions to the law, they are more of a termological nature than essential. And, in the end, we have amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act. Changes and additions are more technical than essential. So far, we've had a situation where only the head of an organization unit, or customs offices, has the authority to apply for the launch of a customs infringement procedure. From now on, that authority will also have an employee employed in the customs office when the manager is absent, but only on condition that the customs officer has certain knowledge and qualifications and that he is given special authority to carry out that job by the customs office's administrator. Therefore, legal solutions that are on the agenda and that are good and parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – will support all amendments and additions to the law for our children. Once again, dear Minister, I congratulate you on all the good you've done in this crisis and extremely difficult year in economy. You have once again shown us how strong and strong, sovereign and independent Serbia is today. You showed us that Serbia today alone, without anyone's help, can cope with all the troubles that have taken place, and that it brings the title of Europe's greatest winner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u727	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. In front of the SPS parliamentary group, the word is Mr. Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u728	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Ministers with Associates and Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, firstly, Mr. Minister, we look forward to each of your arrivals in the Assembly, because here, from the beginning of the term of office and in the previous term of office, you have been sharing good results and good news for the citizens of Serbia about this is an indicator of one responsible, serious and committed approach when it comes to fiscal policy. It is, in fact, a continuation of the path that has been routed since 2014, when the foundations of the government of Serbia's reform course were laid, unpopular, many times so far we have talked about it, unpopular, brave moves, moves that do not lead to political marketing and political ratings, but something that is a reality, and if it hadn't been for Serbia today would not have been strong, could not respond to the challenges it faces, Serbia today would not have a healthy system based on sound foundations. So, life and economy, not a list of good wishes and what citizens would like to hear, not what would lead us as a path to financial bankruptcy and to financial Sunflower. Today we have five legislative proposals or amendments and additions to the law. You know, Mr. Minister, any law can be politicized and you can talk about any law from a political point of view, but here we talk about too much, I would say, professional legislative proposals, and there's no room for politicization, but for specific views, the reasons that exist to support these legal proposals. We, of course, have looked at all five legal proposals as a Parliament club very studioly and systematically. Of course, they will have the support of the SPS parliamentary group. I'll try to give you concrete reasons. So, first of all, it is a set of laws that improves the fiscal policy sector through broader scope of taxpayers and taxpayers and through significant simplification of procedures. So, by supporting these legislative proposals, we actually want to support the goal that you have defined and that you want to realise, by proposing these amendments and additions to the law. This package of laws whose amendments and additions are no doubt meant to contribute to the formulation of a better legislative framework, easier recognition of the tax and tax obligations of citizens, and thus a simpler collection of taxes that become revenue and state and local budgets, i.e. the income of public authorities who have the legal right to charge for their public services. The largest number of amendments in these laws, as far as we could see, concern mutual harmonisation of the rules, but also the introduction of some new obligations or simplification of different administrative procedures that should facilitate citizens' rights and enforcement, which is certainly the goal of all of us. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the essential amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration relate to the creation of legal frameworks in order to include open investment funds in the Republic of Serbia, as the colleague said a few times, alternative investment funds which do not have legal personality, which are registered in the relevant register, of course in accordance with the law. Also, the law further simplifies the tax procedure and improves electronic communication between tax authorities and taxpayers, making it easier for taxpayers to comply with tax obligations. In this respect, open investment funds, i.e. alternative investment funds that have no legal personality, which are entered in the relevant register in accordance with the law, become taxpayers according to the proposed amendments to this law, with their tax obligations being carried out by a company for the management of that fund. Therefore, these changes create a legislative framework in tax law for companies that manage funds as foreign assets and to manage those risks that allow the tax authorities to conduct transparently in determining the control and collection of the tax liabilities of these funds. This should take into account that these changes are proposed to improve tax legislation, which should contribute to the development of investment funds and capital markets and increase investor security and confidence in the stability of our overall tax system. In this way the interest of investors for our market will increase, we are fully convinced. Important amendments to the law also concern the effectiveness of the tax procedure to be ensured by electronic communications and that has already been the case. Here, certain tax procedures are considered, such as requests for reimbursement and re-write more or less paid tax or a request for a postponement of the tax debt which, after the adoption of this law, will be able to be delivered electronically via the tax administration portal. So, citizens won't have to wait in line in front of the tax administration anymore. As tax law is very sensitive and is often subject to different interpretations and practices in the application of the law, these changes remove a number of such disagreements that slowed the work of the tax administration. I would point out in particular the change concerning the possibility of delaying the payment of tax debts in a manner and under conditions to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in order to mitigate the economic consequences of the pandemic created by Kovid-19. Also, I would like to commend the preventive legal measure, which is to prescribe a new criminal part of the tax fraud in relation to the value added tax. The amendments to this law further give legal certainty to citizens and legal entities and provide transparency in the conduct of tax policy. In the case of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Presupply of Property, this law contains a series of amendments primarily related to the organisational structure and jurisdiction of the tax administrations in the process of charging individual property taxes. Thus, the law provides for the collection and control of inheritance taxes and gifts and taxes on the transfer of absolute rights from the tax administration to local self-government units. This change should contribute to a more efficient tax procedure, given that these tax revenues under the law, otherwise, belong to units of local self-government. The law also clarifies solutions relating to open investment funds, i.e. alternative investment funds and their liabilities in relation to the property tax, when they are the owners of assets, holders or users of immovable property, on which that tax and remuneration is paid. It is found that the taxpayers' funds are inheritance and gift and tax on the transfer of absolute rights when the property that is subject to taxation is obtained without compensation, i.e., transferred with compensation. The law also removes legal gaps with taxpayers who determine the property tax in order to ensure the legal certainty of taxpayers. The law also provides for a more complete scope of inheritance and gift tax, by extending the subject of taxation to both inheritance and gift of digital property. In the case of tax exemptions, the exemption should be highlighted in the case of fixed facilities intended for primary agricultural production, where the tax base for all its immovableities is up to 400,000 dinars. In essence, legal solutions in this particular law are in line with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Changes in the legislative framework in the field of tax policy justify when they contribute to fairer taxation, equalising procedures and tax administrations, and, of course, when they are in the interests of citizens and when they are in the interests of the state. The changes contained in this set of laws are exactly what they need to provide. And if we know, when taxes and tax regulations are mentioned, citizens are always afraid of what they're going to do and how much they tax and how much it's going to affect the quality of their lives. What must always be borne in mind is that paid taxes mean more money for education, health care, social giving, for public affairs and all government functions, for police, military, defense, etc. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, this is where the items, i.e. acts subject to tax obligations, are brought together, whether they are new tasks under the authority of the Authority, the termination of the grounds for the taxi or the merger of individual files or the merger of certain actions. Let's remind ourselves that the fees are the kind of fees charged by the state authorities to do immaterial services. These are the most common services of administrative procedures, customs and judicial authorities. The fees are public revenue, i.e. the income of a service body and are charged on a territorial basis. In determining the type and height of administrative taxis, the state must certainly make sure that the tax is not, nor should it be the price of the service, but only the participation for the service. It must therefore be accessible and tailored to the economic power of citizens, above all. It should also be stimulating when it comes to services that encourage certain actions, but also adequate when it comes to using, above all, natural resources. The amount of taxis should be stimulating because of this in order to increase the amount of services for which fees are paid. If the fees are too high, they can affect the reduction of the revenues of the service body and then the full funding of the authorities would return to the budget, i.e. increase budgetary financing. The amendment of this law is also a alignment with the roof law in this area, which is the Law on the Budgetary System which provides that taxes can be introduced and their height prescribed only by law. Then, it is important to point out that the law simplifies procedures, merge procedures, and thus bring some of the taxis together. The innovation of some procedures is conditioned by the regulation "e-paper" and by the government of Serbia's action plan to simplify administrative procedures. The aim of this regulation is to facilitate the exercise of rights before public authorities and public services and to reduce the maximum time of the exercise of those rights or obligations arising from the exercise of certain activities. In this case, these are administrative fees which different authorities charge for providing different services to citizens and businesses. The level of taxis should be linked to the costs that the authorities have in providing services to individuals, and for that amount the individual should also receive a quality service. This law is changed precisely to the initiative of the service authorities, and the need for the harmonisation of the type and scope of services subject to tax obligations and the level of administrative fees has been demonstrated. The requirements and initiatives were delivered by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the Ministry of Mining and Energy, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Institute of Intellectual Property, the Ministry of Health, the Republic Geodetic Institute, as well as the organizations of the finance unit, the Customs Administration and the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. In particular, when it comes to legal solutions, I would support new fees introduced for the approval of geothermal resources for engineering, geological, geotechnical research. Also, new fees have been submitted for the requirements submitted by the health institutions referred to in point 1 of private practice and the organisational unit of the Faculty of Health Professionals for the Enlargement of Action, as well as the fees for confirming the solution requested by the party. On the other hand, a good solution that reduces the fees on the proposal of the Institute of Intellectual Property concerning certain procedures for stamps, i.e. A cab that protects patents, first of all. In general, these changes also improve procedures and cover taxes and all administrative fees are regulated by this law, instead of being regulated by other laws or other sublaws. Thus, by creating a better legal framework in the tax policy sector, the tax administration is in favour of strengthening the security of taxpayers, investors, and this certainly achieves one of the objectives, which is to strengthen the authority of the state on the one hand and to secure fiscal revenues to realise the objectives of the socially responsible state on the other hand. With that, once again, Mr. Minister, in Vote Day, the SPS parliamentary group will support a set of proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u729	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u730	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about a very important set of laws concerning both taxes and customs. What we heard from the minister and what we are certainly looking forward to is going out on the London Stock Exchange, the investors' reactions, the transfer of pension payments to the Swiss model, and that's something we should certainly welcome. The essence of what we are talking about today is the household business we had in previous years, because if it hadn't been for this household business, reform policy, responsible monetary policy, fiscal consolidation we wouldn't be able to talk about something like increasing personal income, paying bigger pensions, investing in agriculture, increasing subsidies to agriculture, investment in infrastructure, investment in health, etc. That's something we should definitely point out and say hello. What we expect from the Ministry of Finance is that a special tax policy should be guided in the future by devasted municipalities. I remind you that most of the Sandzak municipalities, the regions from which I come, are devastated. With the change in tax policy towards devasted municipalities, it will actually be the best signal for investors, it will be the best signal for investors, to invest their money, to open jobs and then solve the demographic problem. But what I want to point out to the minister and his associates is that there is no cash register that can't be spent if it's bumpy, if the funds come out of it without control. What I expect from the finance ministry is an even more rigorous control of budget spending, especially when it comes to local self-government. An example of local self-government that is regularly controlled by the DRI is the municipality of Prepolje, which periodically every three or four years has control. However, we have an example of the Municipality of Sjenica, which for seven years had no control over the DRI and whose debt at this point is now exceeding 650 million dinars. So that's almost two-thirds of their budget. Their business and the work of local self-government are at stake. And what we expect is for the Ministry of Finance, as well as other competent institutions, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, Police, etc., to investigate the abuses that have produced that we have a situation where local self-government in Sjenica has a debt of 650 million dinars. What I must also point out now is that DRI has been reviewing the regularity of operations in the Municipality of Sjenica, in the section relating to public procurement for 2018 and 2019, as well as expenditure on employees in 2019. The draft report of the DRI states that, for the period 2018-2019, at least 262 million dinars were used against the Public Procurement Act and that at least 12 million dinars were illegally paid during 2019. For one small local self-government, these are huge funds. What I expect from you is to examine through the institutions of the system what happened with these funds, as well as with a project co-financed by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, where the Ministry of Trade and Tourism transferred 10 million dinars from the budget magically disappeared. So, praises for the home business, but certainly there's plenty of room left for us to leverage our finances and see where those funds are that we're having. What I can say is that in the day of the vote, we will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u731	Thank you. The following has been reported with Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u732	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ministers with his colleague, fellow Members and fellow MPs, we have today a set of tax laws before us, so I will try as much time as the MP group allows me to comment briefly on each of them. First, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on property tax responsibilities for the identification, collection and control of inheritance and gift taxes, as well as the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, these amendments are transferred from the tax administration to local self-government units. It is doubtless that that statement will lead to an improvement in the business process and, in the end, to the collection and control of those taxes, in particular taking into account the fact that it is taxes whose revenues are charged in the final line, i.e. belong to local self-government units. For example, by deciding on the Niš budget for the current 2020, the planned incomes based on inheritance and gift tax amounted to around 60 million dinars. As we live in the era of digital expansion, this law includes, among other things, the extension of the subject matter of taxation, which my colleagues have already spoken of in previous talks, and thus, by amending this law, taxation between other relations and the inheritance and gift of digital property, which in a comprehensive way the subject of taxation itself is given some different form. The amendments and additions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration shall have a positive impact, above all, on taxpayers, by allowing their own requirements relating to the refund of more or less paid tax, tax refaction, tax credit, retrieval or settlement of their obligations on another basis, as well as the requirements relating to the disposal of the tax due, to the competent authority in electronic form through the tax administration portal, or on the other hand, to allow the tax administration to respond to the requirements in accordance with the relevant tax-law relationship in fact by electronic means, if the obligor so agrees. In any case, one of these types of mutual communication creates some simpler process, reduces costs, facilitates mutual communication and increases efficiency in work both in one direction and in another. These amendments also prescribe a new criminal offence – tax fraud in relation to value added tax. Instead of the present unfounded statement of the tax refund and the tax credit, i.e., the fact that an existing criminal offence is being changed is now covered by the action of the enforcement, in addition to the unfounded statement of the tax refund and tax credit, the offence of the tax evasion is now being carried out. However, only for VAT, so that the objective condition of incrimination is now determined for a period of 12 months, not for a tax period for which VAT obligations are determined, as has been the case so far. In the end, I will refer briefly only to the proposed amendments to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which are largely related to the objective of harmonising the applicable tariffs with so-called ‘Tables’. The ‘e-paper’ programme. One change concerns the reduction in the amount of fees proposed by the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Telecommunications. This proposal for a law reduced the amount of fees to give an opinion on the identification of goods, i.e. the need for the control of external trade for legal persons and entrepreneurs, in order to comply with the actual costs and services, taking into account the fact that there is no opinion on the application of the rules, it merely determines whether or not an appropriate authorisation is required for specific goods. The general impression when you observe a set of these laws, which are in front of us, is that their application, apart from the harmonisation of the legal regulation with the practice that we have, as well as the removal of the concerns that exist and arise, will, among other things, make it easier to apply the rules by the taxpayers themselves on the one hand, but also to a more functional and operational administration on the other. After all, any changes and additions to the law tends precisely to the goals I set. For this reason, the SDPS will support the proposals for these amendments to the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u733	Thank you. The word is Maria Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u734	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, on today's agenda, we have tax and customs laws that further improve and modernise Serbia's tax and customs systems. The transformation of the Tax Administration is needed to establish a modern and efficient administration and thus enables space to be created for easier and fairer business of the economy and citizens who are taxpayers. The biggest progress is made by switching to the electronic sphere of business and we know that from 1 January 2018 all tax returns can be submitted by electronic means. It should also be commended for a significant improvement in tax administration thanks to the introduction of modern technologies and the development of an electronic system for the submission of tax returns and tax payments. Here I think of the project "e-Papir" which should reduce administrative costs by about 15 to 20% by about 15 to 20%, then a tax collector, or a counter where all citizens, regardless of the place of residence from tax officials, can receive information on the application of tax laws, can receive professional assistance in filling tax returns, etc. It is all part of an eGovernment portal that represents the central location of electronic services for all citizens, businesses and employees of the state administration. I think just like this way of modernising the work of the tax administration and the very approach of the business to the satisfaction of all of us well-known pick-ups – you lack one piece of paper, go into oblivion. And today we see how important the possibility is especially at a time when we want to preserve the health and lives of our citizens, the ability to get answers to all questions by electronic means without coming to the counter, as well as various beliefs. In addition to making it easier for taxpayers to meet their obligations, the work of officials becomes faster and more efficient, the awareness of the whole of society is raised as much as it is important and how important it is to pay taxes, so your ministry has gone one step ahead and we have interactive classes that explain to children in primary schools what the tax is, what is the fiscal account, which is why it is important to take a fiscal account and to realize that paying taxes is an obligation for the state. Only a lecture is followed by a film titled "tax pays to return to you well". Because of all of this, we also have indicators that show us that from 2014 until last year, the Tax Administration has charged 36.4% more of the public revenue for which it is in charge, and the citizens have really realized how important it is to pay the tax, and so for this little period for all of us. For example, in the last 10 days, the Tax Administration has specifically charged 52 million dinars on various tax bases from 9 to 19 November. In your statements, Mr. Minister, you have said this occasion that you expect that the reform of the Tax Administration will be completed by 2023, and thus through such a reformed tax administration, you would encourage further development of the Serbian economy and have made it more attractive and we of the Unique Serbia do not doubt that it will and will have the full support of our parliamentary group. As regards the proposed Property Tax Act, they will go through Article 6b. The term is reintroduced - the auxiliary facilities and I'm fine with it, except for the fact that even heating sheds enter the auxiliary facilities that are subject to taxation. I'm saying this for the reasons that in many, especially in rural areas, these sheds are made of wood and are not even built and I don't think there's any point in taxing them. I may not have understood it well, but I would like you to explain it for me and for the citizens who are following the work of the Assembly and for the clarification of the law mentioned. The paper is also an extension of the period during which real estate traffic is achieved, whose price is important for the determination of average prices from nine months to twelve months. This creates a more real, I can say a fairer average price of immovableity in areas. I would like to return to the work of tax services and we heard here through the discussion of colleagues how important it is that the property tax, how important it is for the state, for the functioning of all systems in the state, but I think it is simply for better control and for better tax collection by local self-governments missing tax officials, tax inspectors. I can specifically say about the work of the Tax Service in the King who is doing a great job, since they only have 15 officers, of which four tax inspectors, e.g. That job in Chačka is done by 30 people, in Novi Pazar 33 employees. I still have to speak, but given that I have to leave time and colleagues from my parliamentary group, I would just like to point out that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u735	Thank you. Next reported, Nevenka Kostadinova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u736	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, the laws on the agenda are of great importance to the economy of a country, i.e. For her economy. I will refer to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which is very important for the conditions of business in a society. We have heard that one of the objectives of these amendments to the law is to cover open investment funds that do not have legal personality status. The second objective is to simplify and improve communication between tax authorities and taxpayers themselves and third – to simplify the interpretation of certain provisions and to simplify the procedures of the Tax Procedure Act itself and the Tax Administration. As someone who sails for a quarter of a century in the tumultuous waters of a private business, my discussion will primarily address the simplification and improvement of communication between tax authorities and taxpayers and the importance of this simplification and improvement. Therefore, in order to improve the business climate, strengthen the private sector especially the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, it is very important to do so. Build a partnership relationship between tax authorities and customs authorities on the one hand and real-time i.e. private sector on the other hand. Very often there are contrasting views between the economy and the tax and customs authorities and very often the real sector, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises sector see tax authorities as enemies, i.e. like someone he's threatened with. This is somewhat due to the behavior of individual inspectors who are the ones who enforce the laws, very often interpreting them in their own way. It often happens that the inspectors themselves come in control of the exchange -- wherever we come in, we didn't get it right, and then the entire flow of control goes that way. It often happens that controls end with accounts that operators must naturally pay, since during the control, the amount is determined and the complaint does not delay the execution of the solution. Then, the taxpayer lodges a complaint and the process lasts much longer, of course by breaking the law of defined deadlines, sometimes it takes years. Very often small companies do not survive control, i.e. Western to the problem and do not welcome the end of the process and recover funds that their inspectors miscalculated and pulled out of circulation. As a result, we have a shut down company and several jobs, a very long process of procedure, and I believe that the state has lost much more in this case than it has received through the payment of a certain amount which is later due to be returned to a controlled economic operator. I therefore believe that there is a need to build a partnership relationship between the Tax Administration and the Small and Medium Enterprises sector, that the Tax Administration is much more preventive, advisory and to be a service to the small and medium-sized business sector, which very often does not have the capacity to deal with all the challenges in business. By strengthening the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, by strengthening the private sector, we are strengthening the economy that is a locomotive for the development of one society, one country, and the more powerful our locomotive is, it will go faster and draw many more cars behind it. In this way, we will create an opportunity for the real sector to be more tempting than public. Thus, we will translate the most capable and best experts into the real sector and allow the country's economic stability and accelerated growth and development. The way it's done, you ministers know best. This is your package of measures at the time of the three minimum-time pandemic per worker and twice per 60% minimum wage with tax-deposit and contribution saved Serbia's economy, saved the economy and gave many economic operators a chance to survive, because if the package hadn't been a large number of businesses today, it wouldn't have been active, it wouldn't have worked. Therefore, all the newspapers that the ministry brings, aimed at discharging the economy, simplifying interpretation and facilitating communication, are beneficial for both the economy and the tax authorities, the ministry and the state in general. In the end, I'm going to say that in the voting day, I'm going to support a set of laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u737	Thank you. The word is Misala Pramenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u738	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, we have a very important set of laws in the area of economic stability of the country, and we have heard a lot of useful information from our colleagues. What I'd like to point to is a few things. In fact, the laws on tax bases and administration lead to the fiscal consolidation of the country, which is very important in terms of the country's economic stability and this is a very important segment of these laws. On the other hand, I would like to commend the fact that communication between the tax authority and the taxpayers is simplified. It is a very important possibility of electronic communication in this respect and it is something that will certainly lead to more efficient work, both tax authorities themselves and relief. It's a big relief in terms of taxpayers themselves. However, on the other hand, the state must have regard for its citizens through various tax relief programmes that, at these times of the economic crisis, would have been caused by the pandemic Kovida-19, which affects all branches of the economy, very, very important to the businesses themselves. We, from the Justice and Reconciliation Party, have repeatedly pointed out the importance of, say, helping villages through the possibility of tax cuts or even tax exemptions for villages that are more than six hundred metres above sea level. That would be very important and keep in mind right now. On the other hand, I said that this crisis is affecting the economy, all its branches, but I would like to highlight the problem facing the residents of the Cave Highland in Sandzak, because they have a big problem, and therefore all other farmers and cattle farmers in Serbia must face the problem, which is the inability to sell cattle due to poor demand, very low retail prices. Their opportunities are very, very limited and we are at risk of wasting all their efforts and years of commitment in terms of raising their own land, household, etc. So, in that sense, state aid and hearing regarding certain satisfactions would be very, very important. This aid would certainly mean a great deal to other branches of the economy, the caterers, and other branches of great importance. We heard, too, that this set of laws also transfer larger powers to local self-government, which is very important in terms of tax collection. On the one hand, local self-government will make more income through the application of this law in the future, which is very significant, and their revenue side will be more stable. However, what I would like to point out at this point is the fact and need to take account from the state level through the institutions of the system and control any spending of budget funds, because the fact is that local self-governments, especially those that are further underdeveloped, such as the Sanjak municipalities, are in need of investment, for funds. If various distortions of financial and various abuses of position arise, it can also burden citizens themselves, but also the budget of both local self-government and the state budget. Unfortunately, in weeks behind us, we have had the fact that we have witnessed a number of abuses or charges of suspicion of abuses of exactly official positions and certain powers by senior officials of local self-government in Novi Pazar. We welcome such an act and action by the state authorities and indicate that this kind of fight against corruption must be carried out from the very top of the state, and further towards local self-governments, simply so that the financial situation, economic stability, and that, on the other hand, prevent abuses of each species. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u739	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u740	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would briefly refer to the status of the tax administration reform. A few MPs have noticed, and this is very important for the citizens of Serbia, that we are in the process of reforming the Tax Administration. We started that reform two and a half to three years ago. As you know, the organisational reform is also over, in the sense that the number of exposures, the number of branches, we go more to the electronic business than it used to be, the counter business, so different papers are being handed over, etc. So on this point we try to follow what's going on in the world, but the big changes, the big challenges, the big deal is still ahead of us. So next year, we will have two very important laws to come into force on 1 January 2022. By the end of the year, there will be a new fiscalization law ahead of you. So we're introducing a new way of fiscal accounts, accounting for fiscal accounts. We'll have cash registers that will give real-time data to the IRS how many bills are paid, how many bills have been issued, and the amount of taxes will be automatically accounted for. That's very important, but I'll give you just one example from practice. So, at this point, the tax administration inspectors are going, so to say, blindly or after they report to the restaurant, to the bakery, to the cafes, to those they think don't pay taxes. This system will be much more favourable for them. If you see, say, someone keeps coming out of the cafe, coming out of the bakery, you should expect a large number of fiscal bills, and you don't have on the system, on some iPad, on some pill that shows it to you, then you should immediately enter that facility and immediately control whether or not they issue fiscal accounts. So this field control is going to be much simpler. Of course, there is a large number of information packages involved, which will give some red flags and indicate where the problems are, so that the work of the Tax Administration will be greatly facilitated. We expect that you will support this new law by the end of the year, in order to begin its implementation from 1 January 2022. We expect the full introduction of new fiscal registers. I've said it a few times, and I'll repeat it before you, and it won't be business, nor will the businessmen have any cost to do with it. We are in the budget, which will also be in front of you, the 2021 budget, and we have provided money to cover the full cost of improving that fiscal cash register system for next year. So, on the other hand, we're following up with the world. After all, we are promoting our fiscal system. The second law that's very important to us, it's a law about so-called. e-factures. He'll meet you in the first quarter of next year. We will also start with its application from 1 January 2022. A huge newspaper in our country. So, in the payment system, we won't have those paper invoices anymore, so you had stamps, signatures, etc., it'll all be organized electronically. When the relationship between business and business is to govern, it is said, the relationship between business entities and business entities on the one hand or business entities and the state on the other hand, all of this will be automated as of 1 January 2022. Why does it matter? Well, the basic requirement or one of the biggest demands of all businessmen is to speed up VAT recovery. Otherwise, it's going much better now than it was before, but this system when you have electronic input and output invoices, so their pairing that will be automatic will give you the opportunity to return the same VAT on the same day, or immediately, automatically. This is management and our goal, thus improving and supporting the business of a large number of economic operators and, of course, speeding up all economic activities. So that's two very important things. As you can see, in spite of Kovida-19, we've made the most of it. We do so together with the IMF delegation and with the World Bank and with a large number of our experts, so on the other hand these two legislative proposals will greatly change the framework in which domestic businessmen, ultimately state and country, operate. It's all about reforming the IRS. You mentioned earlier that some things were done, some laws were passed, but I think the most important thing is personnel. So, regardless of all that hardware, regardless of the software we're going to buy, one of the priorities of the tax administration's work in the next period will be the personnel, the improvement of their work, their knowledge, their expertise. A large number of people will be additionally employed by the Tax Administration, new young people who will be given a chance. So, in addition to this hardware and software work, I expect that a large number of new employees will contribute greatly to the rapid and better work of the Tax Administration. One short crackdown is about the winning prize game "Take the Accounts", again, of course, it is about fiscalization. I want to inform you that today we already have 2.8 million envelopes. So, there's a huge response from the Serbian citizens to that. I will remind you, this award game means collecting ten fiscal accounts or ten credit card slips and sending them to the address indicated. We expect the first draw of the prizes on Saturday. What's particularly important to me, we've been organizing this prize game for the third time. We want to raise the awareness of Serbia's citizens that they should take that fiscal bill, that if they don't take it, they haven't fooled anyone else, because when the tax is paid, that money goes into the budget. We out of that budget and buy drugs and equip our hospitals and build these new two hoofs of hospitals and build both schools and kindergartens and highways and then when you don't take a fiscal bill you just cheat on yourself, and that's the only seller who's gonna put that difference in his pocket, he's the only one who benefits from it. So every time I talk, I try to point out the importance of it all, that every opportunity we all have to say how important it is to take a fiscal account and how important it is to take advantage of it because we cheat on ourselves. Every one of us and if there's a problem he wants to go to a new hospital, wants to see new appliances, wants to see satisfied healthcare workers, it has to be financed from something. It is financed from VAT, financed from other certain tax forms, but that only means that the fiscal account must be taken and that the tax must be paid. That's why we point that out. As far as customs laws are concerned, you've all noticed, it's about amending laws that further improve the work of the customs service. It's an extremely difficult job they do. I want to thank all those who are employed in customs, because every day you read and see that something has been seized, that it has been prevented smuggling, one way or another, one or another of the goods. That's exactly what those people who protect us in that way, take care of us, a big thank you for them. Otherwise, you know, all the laws, ultimately, that we bring and talk about when customs are at stake and are in line with the regulation of the European Union, and on that point we follow everything that is going on. After, here, a year we change them again, because every little thing changes in that regulation. Of course, we follow it and then we change those laws. What we're going to talk about tomorrow, which is very important to me, just to mention, it's a set of seven agreements. You will see, these are credits with international financial institutions for those projects that are very important to the citizens of Serbia, so that directly contributes to their better quality of life, better infrastructure around us, and when you look at everything we do, changes in tax laws, changes in customs laws, agreements with international institutions, the law on fiscalisation, budget rebalancing, the budget that will be before you in early December, so Serbia does not stop, Serbia is moving forward. Our GDP growth this year will be the first in Europe, i.e. we will have the smallest GDP decline. Well, when was that? In the draft budget for next year, you will have a record high amount of capital investments. So, in conditions where you have people firing, the closure of factories, the closure of businesses around the world, when everyone panics over Kovid-19, and I'm not saying that it's easy for us, we're in the next year's budget, except for the increase in pensions, except for the increase in wages in the public sector, except for the increase in the minimum labour price, except for the reduction in redundancies, we're never going to have a higher capital budget, so, investment in highways, schools, hospitals, all that's important to the citizens of Serbia, of course, expecting that this to further boost our GDP growth to 6%, as much as we've projected in the budget, but that way, we'll talk about that too. Thank you for understanding. So these tax laws improve this tax environment and the work of the Tax Administration, customs also, and, of course, little by little in such a way, we build a nicer and better Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u741	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u742	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable ministers with co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's session is dedicated to a set of laws in the field of tax policy, customs laws and a number of international contracts mainly relating to loans from international financial organisations aimed at continuing important infrastructure projects, as well as at preventing the severe consequences caused by the Kovid-19 virus pandemic. Today, in the context of the first search, I will refer to proposals amending the Customs Act and the Customs Service Act. The role of customs duties in each organised rule of law stems from the breadth and significance of the transactions carried out by the customs office. These are goods customs duties, customs controls and other goods and passenger controls, with abroad, both at border crossings and at customs terminals within the state. Customs duties, which fall within a special type of taxi, account for both the customs authority and the budget. Therefore, the role of customs and customs procedures is also very important from a financial perspective for a single country. The powers of customs authorities are broad and important under the law. They enable the detection and prevention of illegal cross-border flows of goods, and high personnel and technological equipment of the customs service enables professional, responsible and dedicated execution of such complex tasks. The work of the customs service can also be freely compared with the duties of safeguarding state borders in any way. I am using this opportunity to thank customs and customs officials for their responsible work and all the risks and challenges that customs officials face on a daily basis, especially at border crossings, because together with the police, they reveal illegal flows of money, narcotics, weapons, art items and other different goods that are illegally imported or exported, which can cause great damage to our economy and our country. The work of our customs officers is much more complicated because of the fact that Serbia is a transit country on whose roads everyone travelling from the west to the south and other continents is on. This transit position and our good roads, unfortunately, other than tourists and benevolents, bring to our territory those who could easily earn, easily enrich themselves in an illegal way. Fortunately, our customs officers don't miss it. To illustrate that with a few fresh examples from the work of the customs service. More than 600,000 euros were seized from the beginning of this year to yesterday in an attempt to smuggle foreign exchanges, so the money remains the most smuggled goods. More than 100,000 euros were seized in Horgos during the previous weekend alone. Otherwise, 10,000 euros are allowed, and offenders mostly hide the rest of the money and do not report it. A week ago, at the Merdara administrative crossing from Kosovo and Metohija customs officers seized 30,000 euros from a foreign citizen's truck driver. Almost daily, narcotics are seized at border crossings, with them and money earned from narcotics or for their purchase. These few examples discuss the weight of the work of customs officials, their honor and great responsibility for the work they do. Today we are talking about amendments to the legislative frameworks that regulate customs issues. It's the Customs Service Act and Customs Law. Although Serbia has a stable legal framework in this sector, it is necessary that as a country that has been defined for the European path and this area is in line with EU customs regulations that have brought its regulations into line with the real needs of modern international trade that is changing. In fact, the modern way of doing business has accelerated the flow and consumption of goods, primarily under the influence of new information technologies. In addition to increased global interdependence, there has been a continuing growth in international trade and the movement of goods leading to an even greater burden on customs services. And this harmonisation of one of the most significant obligations of the state authorities in this period, and conditioned by the achievement of the negotiating chapter 29 – the Customs Union, and thus the commitments made by the Republic of Serbia regarding the deadlines for compliance with EU customs legislation. It can be said that by adopting the new Customs Code at the end of 2018, this obligation by the Republic of Serbia regarding the harmonisation of customs legislation with EU customs legislation is largely met. The customs law of 2018 simplified customs procedures, which also speeded up the overall customs procedure and increased the efficiency of the work of the customs service, and significantly reduced the costs of business of business operators, legal and natural persons, as it enabled the submission of customs documents by electronic means. At the same time, better quality and more effective customs controls were provided, so an efficient customs procedure reduced costs in the external trade process. The proposed amendments and additions to the Customs Code are firstly corrected in a way that determines the moment when the decisions taken by the customs authority become enforceable. It is proposed that from the date of delivery of the decision to the person concerned. The amendment refers to the current Article 17. The law. This amendment is subject to the harmonisation of this provision of the Customs Code with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act with which this provision is now contrary, as it provides for decisions by customs authorities to be implemented at the time of adoption, not from the time of delivery to the parties, or to the person concerned, as this amendment should be proposed in order to achieve the legal certainty of the parties in the proceedings before the customs authorities. The second amendment to the Customs Code is also not extensive, but is essential for the overall effect of the application of the Customs Code. The amendment of Article 99 of the applicable law concerns the payment of customs debt and concerns the extension of the deadline for the establishment of the customs debt. To make a decision on that debt and to notify debtors while carrying out the mandatory payment of that debt. Under the applicable law, that deadline was three years, but in practice it has proved difficult to implement this provision within that same time limit, so that this deadline is extended to five years. The objective of such a legislative provision is to ensure the effective collection of customs duties charged within regular periods, so they are considered customs debt. For such cases, in order to allow the customs debt to be charged within real time limits, and thus safeguarding the financial interests of the Republic of Serbia, changes have been made by proposing longer limitation periods. They are now five years old, i.e. this change in debt cannot be charged at the end of the five-year period from the date of its creation. The second part of this provision provides that each new act of the obsolescence authority shall continue and the procedure shall continue from the beginning. It is also predicted that an extreme ageing period may be ten years. In any case, these amendments to the Customs Code should contribute to more effective protection of the financial interests of the Republic of Serbia. In the case of amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act, they also aim to make customs procedures and customs formalities more effective and faster, especially in order to avoid different interpretations of the provisions and to reduce the number of requests for an opinion on the application of certain provisions of the law due to their inaccuracy. All of this slowed down or made it impossible for customs procedures to be implemented. One of the most problematic provisions in this regard is Article 48 of the applicable law governing the powers of the head of the organisational unit in whose jurisdiction transactions are related to the customs offence, as well as the powers of customs officers who conduct operations relating to the customs infringement procedure. The application of this article requires that most interpretations and explanations be applied so far, which is why the addition of this article is now proposed and thus removes the legal problem in application. How all must be the same before the law, even in a procedural sense, the application of the law must be the same, which is more consistent and must ensure more efficient work of the customs service. Certain legal provisions also required legal technical harmonisation, and therefore, in the part of the law which regulates the disciplinary responsibility of customs officials who have the status of civil servants or deputies, certain legal technical corrections and additions are carried out, which refers to the subsequent application of the Law on civil servants in the work relating to the procedure and the exercise of executives in the event of temporary distance from work. The draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act extends the powers and obligations of certain customs officers, i.e. extends the circle of persons authorised to apply for the launch of the customs-demand procedure, as well as the exercise of powers in respect of the application. These changes will contribute to a faster and more efficient launch and completion of the customs-infringement procedure and thus to a larger flow of funds into the budget by paying fines in the customs-infringement procedure. The amendments to both of those laws contribute to the establishment of a better quality legal framework, provide legal certainty, and ultimately provide conditions for Serbia's financial interests through efficient customs work. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group will support and vote on the proposed set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u743	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, you have received the resignations of Parliamentarians Marija Leković, Aleksandra Sapic and Aleksandra Camagic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Immunity Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of examining these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the mandate of these Members of Parliaments. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and Article 4 thereof. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Immunity Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased before the elected MPs were appointed: Marija Leković, Aleksandar Sapic and Aleksandra Čamagic on the day of their resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're going back to work. The word has a National MP, Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u744	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, the JS parliamentary group, this set of laws, as our President Dragan Markovic Palma said, will support because the laws must go into step with time and reality, especially those laws that talk about taxes and taxes, but all other laws must go in step with time because we must not allow citizens to suffer for it. When we say, since this set of laws speaks exactly about taxes and taxes and when we tell our citizen, they first think there is a new borrowing. However, this set of laws is complemented and specified by existing laws resulting from years of application and detection of certain gaps resulting from several key effects. These effects are the first faster implementation of the law, it is a reduction of time and more efficient work. The second thing is to cut costs, and the third is to strengthen legal certainty and the fourth is to improve tax collection. As regards the law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, it should be said that the tax suspension, payment of the tax is carried out in addition to this law allowing the postponement of the payment of the debt tax in a manner and under the conditions laid down by the Government in order to mitigate the economic consequences, i.e., Kovid-19, which is related to this package of measures given by the Government. The other thing that's very important is electronic communication. This is where you specify certain things, that the taxpayer in electronic communications through a single electronic mailbox, and he gets it in that way, so he no longer needs to agree with that, but a natural person who receives tax returns in accordance with the provisions of this law and in paper form is asked for consent, so that citizens don't think about whether they'll all have to go in electronic form, but I think that this electronic communication is very important and it goes in step with time. So the expected benefit of all of this is three benefits – leading to a reduction in time, a drastic cost reduction, the cost of tax administration. These are the costs of administration by employees, the costs of materials, the costs of the press, postage and other costs and the third - an increase in the level of efficiency of the process. Also, a new crime has been introduced which colleagues have been talking about, and that's a tax fraud regarding VAT, and we think it's all good. As for the law on amendments and additions to the property tax law, I'd say some things that, in my opinion, are important for citizens to hear. The long-term application of this Property Tax Act has shown the existence of certain legal gaps and insufficiently clear provisions and therefore complete and precise and also define certain concepts. Thus, certain groups are classified as immovable, all of which in order to determine the basis of the property tax and starting with the principle that tax facts are determined according to their economic essence. For example, we had that immovableity that we placed in apartments, which are used as a business space, now there will be no more. The other thing is that auxiliary facilities are classified into the same group of garages. What does it matter? Because earlier auxiliary facilities were sold together with houses, i.e. The house when it's sold, the house is sold, the land, the auxiliary facility, so we couldn't determine in areas for these facilities the average price of squares. This will regulate. I would like to tell the citizens that due to proper tax determination on these auxiliary facilities, it is proposed that the introduction of an obligation on property bonds be made to submit by 31 January 2021 tax returns for the determination of property tax for immovable property that are in accordance with this law and are classified as a different group. It's important that the citizens know they can do it by January 31st. As far as the depreciation rate is concerned, as you can see, it is the same for all territories of the local self-government unit in that territory. One more thing I'd just say, and that's an extension of the period to determine the average prices from nine months to twelve months because of the reality that it is, because we have, for example, in some parts, that is. in areas that the price of squares of the house is more expensive than the price of squares of the apartment which is not realistic and we hope that this law will regulate such things and that no citizen will pay more taxes than what is really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u745	Thank you. Next reported is MP Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u746	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today a series of draft laws amending and supplementing laws in the area of finance that clearly regulate the work of tax, tax, customs and taxis, both for the sake of improving individual solutions and the need to bring them into line with EU legislation. What makes me particularly happy is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia as an authorised promoter has sent a number of laws and agreements to the House of National Assembly which are essential both for the everyday lives of citizens and for improving the functioning of the economy and for further growth of our GDP. I would, above all, like to point out a bill on amendments and additions to the property tax law. The objective of this law is, above all, contained in the need to transfer basic competences for the identification, collection and control of taxes, both on inheritance, gift and on the transfer of absolute rights, from the tax administration to local self-government units, which represents a kind of decentralisation of jurisdiction. When I say decentralisation of jurisdiction, first of all, I believe that this level of trust in competence will have a positive impact on both the process of making it easier to determine and the taxing process, because income by these foundations belongs to units of local self-government, i.e. cities and municipalities. What is important is that these same funds are spent precisely on projects that directly affect the better lives of all citizens and in which, unlike earlier periods, they can participate through proposals and initiatives. To make the same law a better and more efficient way of showing the proposed solution for the introduction of investment funds that do not have legal personality, while at the same time having property rights on immovable property, which will provide additional funds for the budget. The introduction of both investment and open investment funds into our legislation also provides for a bill on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. What the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Property Tax Act further proposes is an extension of the time period during which the traffic of immovableity has been achieved from nine to twelve months, which would allow for more realistic determination of the average price of immovableity so that their owners would not be damaged on any basis, because exactly the safe and responsible state, such as the Republic of Serbia, are working on full compliance with the private property institute, and in accordance with this proposal the law provided for a clear classification of immovableity in groups, which would allow their more realistic taxation. What I think is also extremely important is part of the bill that concerns the change of certain tax exemptions, and above all I think about the immovableities used or intended for agricultural production, regardless of whether farmers and taxpayers are citizens' income tax, which has been a condition so far. If we sublime all of these, I believe that this law will have an extremely positive impact on the tax administration in order to increase its efficiency, as well as on local self-government units, as well as on property taxpayers, of which farmers are extremely important to enable their further fiscal discharge and incentives to further invest in these facilities and carry out their work. A clear signal that the state recognized the farmers' faces are also mentioned solutions. This is only the first step in further improving the area, which is also recognised in Prime Minister Brnabic's exposé. Also, what I have to point out is that all the money that comes from the property tax process is being spent both on improving local infrastructure and on improving health and social protection, as well as investing in a series of projects for young people, which clearly shows that after eight years we continue to work faster, better and more responsible to make our society even better. Finally, I would like to point out that in the voting day, I will support all the proposed laws and agreements, because I believe that all these solutions provide a safer future for Serbia and for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u747	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Dubravka the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u748	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to take note of the amendments proposed in respect of the Property Tax Act, which I consider to be the most politically significant, which is reflected in the extension of the jurisdiction of local self-government. In fact, units of local self-government are given new powers to determine the rate of property tax, respecting the limit laid down by law, then obtaining jurisdiction to determine, collect and control inheritance taxes and gifts and taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, in which I see an important step in strengthening local self-government, because the most important assumption of local development is the fiscal decentralisation brought about by this legislative change. Also, a new legal solution, apart from leading to the discharge of the tax administration, also means the transfer of responsibility to local authorities. The fact is that today's decision on the most important issues is largely centralised, which is completely justified in some crisis situations. However, under normal conditions, local elections are less significant than the elections of the republican rank, and this change and this increase in the responsibilities of cities and municipalities in the area of property tax potentially leads to an increase in the importance of local political entities. Also, by ratifying the European Charter of Local Self-Government, adopted under the Council of Europe, Serbia has also taken the obligation to work towards increasing the importance of local self-government, as is the necessity in Serbia's EU accession process. But regardless of these obligations, Serbia is as strong as its weakest municipality. With each municipality progressing, the whole of Serbia is progressing. There is another logical fact that speaks for this legal change, i.e. discusses that cities and municipalities of this jurisdiction will do more effectively and securely. Namely, these are their original incomes, so it is logical to expect that they will take better and more effective care of their collection. As we are already talking about the Property Tax Act and how I mentioned the importance of local self-government and the importance of equal regional development, I think it is also appropriate to give a suggestion to change the concept of tax exemption for first-income buyers, in some perspective, which would be reflected in the fact that the exemption would not be fixed, or limited to a certain area, as is now up to 40 squares, plus 15 squares per household member, but to a certain value. Namely, it is not the same amount of tax on the transfer of absolute rights when buying an apartment of 40 squares in, say, some luxury Belgrade zone, where the price of squares goes up to 3,000 euros and when buying an apartment of 40 squares in a smaller place, say in Zrenjanin and the surrounding area, where the price of squares moves about 400 euros. In fact, the buyer of an expensive apartment makes much more savings than the one who decided to live in a smaller city and a smaller place. I don't think that's in line with the principle of equality in taxation. Also, in rural areas, there are often no housing facilities of 40 square meters, which would mean that one who buys a 100 square-square house in a smaller place must pay taxes, and one who buys a 40 square-square-square apartment for himself in a luxurious settlement for an amount of 120,000 euros, he is honored by the state. That is why I think it is fairer for this release, or this tax advantage to be determined to the average value of the average apartment at the level of Serbia as a whole. Also, there is another problem here, or situation, when someone has inherited a house or an even more obvious part of a house that, for example, works, is not suitable for housing, or requires a large investment, or it may be completely destroyed, and in a catastrophe of immobility it continues to be a residential facility, which doesn't mean much to that successor, but enough to prevent him from using this tax advantage. I believe that in the context of the decentralisation and the importance of balanced regional development, this would facilitate the position of those who want to buy their first immovableity in smaller places and live in them. Also, I believe that this change in the system of tax on the transfer of absolute rights would make it more socially fair. I would, of course, not be touching the value added tax, i.e. the return of VAT on the purchase of newly built apartments for the reason that the legion of legions is there not only to facilitate the purchase of the first immobility, but also to give incentives to construction activity. In any case, the exemption from taxes gives us the transfer of absolute rights in the purchase of first immovable property is extremely important for young people who move the path of independence and the formation of their family in whatever form and extent it is envisaged. I think it would be useful to consider this idea and this suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u749	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u750	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, about every year at this time before the Budget Law as a roof law during one fiscal year, we are discussing tax laws and customs laws. So this year. We have five proposals to supplement and amend the law, of which two customs and three taxes. When it comes to these customs laws, it is, above all, a harmonisation with the laws that were passed in the previous, or this year, in that previous meeting and regarding improving the quality of work, primarily customs and customs exposures. When we talk about tax laws, it should be noted that one of the pillars of state financing is tax, and unlike some other governments, this government has a continuity that started in 2012 not to increase fiscal burdens, but to fairly distribute it, to make a comprehensive collection of taxes, and wherever we can try to disburse first of all the economy and citizens. It is also these amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act and the Administrative Tax Act that they say. When I talk about the Law on Administrative Taxes, it should be noted that there are 20 new taxis in this bill, but it should be said immediately that 17 is already in application, 13, I apologize, it is already in application so that they will not burden the economy, nor the citizens, but will only be legally changed. Also, it should be noted here that we are removing 17 existing taxis. First of all, those who refer to agriculture, and I'm not going to say anything else. Where did we get the new taxes? We introduced new taxes, first of all, on intellectual property, on the prevention of money laundering, in the field of health care, and on customs procedures where one of the laws is on the agenda, the Change and Customs Supplements Act. My colleagues from the King mentioned here in previous presentations of the quality of the work of the branch in the King, how tax is charged, and how it is done correctly. I'd like to, I won't praise a branch or their work, I'd like that bill to be even higher, that the percentage of the fees will be even better, because it will reflect the quality of life for all of us who live in the King. We'll have a lot more money for all the infrastructure that's within the city's jurisdiction, and it's not in the jurisdiction of the Republic. So, for the local roads, for the sewers, for the plumbing, and thank God, politics above all for President Vukic, SNS and these governments is new employment. Through each new employee, there is also a certain benefit for local self-government and it collects certain taxes and contributions. I'm going to say here just to amend and supplement the property tax law was done just to comply with other regulations and laws. Here I will mention some of the laws that we have previously adopted, which is the Law on Investment Funds and the Law on Alternative Funds, as well as what is most important, I am just going back to that story when I mentioned the King's, the transfer of competence for payment, the establishment and control of inheritance taxes and a gift on local self-government, which I think will be a great burden on the tax administration, and it will bring a lot of good results. I hope that all the legal proposals of the Ministry of Finance and future will be as they were in the previous four years, quality, comprehensive and in order to make progress, above all the economy, our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u751	Thank you. Next reported is MP Ivan Ribać.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u752	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Slavice, the Honorable People's MPs, I would first like to congratulate Mr. Minister on the fantastic results and to say that he's used us to it, simply every part of his activities pleases us with fantastic results, as he was today. I have two topics I'd like to say a few words about today. The first is to amend and supplement the Customs Service Act. Customs administration is a very important screw in the Ministry of Finance and in the entire state apparatus and contributes to a significant complement of the budget. In 2019, it was even 51%, and in addition to this fiscal role, the Customs Administration has a significant and security aspect, i.e. the security role, as the Republic of Serbia remains on the so-called The Balkan route for smuggling of all types of goods and customs administration in that segment achieves day-to-day fantastic results. I would like to congratulate Director Tomic and all the customs administration employees on the fantastic results so far and just to continue. Amendment of Article 48 The Customs Service Act which regulates the application to initiate an infringement proceedings against the customs offender is necessary because the applicable legislation is regulated that only the Head of the Organizational Unit whose jurisdiction is involved in the infringements, without being able to transfer those powers and powers to other customs officers, can be applied for. Then there is a problem, for example, when a customs offence is detected in a natural person who is a foreign citizen and must be conducted in an emergency procedure, 48 hours. The problem arises because the territorial depravity of the Customs Administration is such that, for example, if a breach at the border crossing is detected, it can be several tens of miles from the customs office where there are sections for customs and criminal proceedings, which can represent and present significant difficult circumstances for customs officials to work. Thus, the amendment and addition of this member of the law will certainly facilitate and improve the work of the customs service and contribute to even better results, as regards the fiscal issue, as well as to the overall security and detection and prevention of the smuggling of different types of goods. As for other topics, dear colleagues, we are witnessing that our country is in a very complex, delicate situation. On all sides, we're under a lot of pressure. On the one hand, it is the fight against the Kovids, on the other, it is always the current issue of Kosovo and Metohija, on the third hand, internal security related to the emergence of these two criminal clans fighting in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, as fourthly, I would point out – the joint forces of opposition political and parapolitical organisations, some self-proclaimed intelligence or elites, as well as some media that have a clear anti-state campaign, which daily create an atmosphere of lynch which, I do not want to suspect, but reminds me of a period directly ahead of the deprivement of the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's life. As far as the pig is concerned, it is clear that the entire state apparatus is doing everything in their power to react and save every citizen's life in the best possible way, and for that reason, I can freely say that we are not great in statistics, but we still have fewer diseased and infected than significantly more developed and richer countries in the environment and in the world. All of this would not be if, since 2014, when we took over the steering wheel with a state apparatus, we had not had a clear strategy, among other things, on the development of health care, so we have since restored 80 homes of health and infirmarys, built the Clinical Centre in Nis, to renovate and build a Clinical Centre in Belgrade, which will soon be completed and will be one of the most modern clinical centres in this part of Europe. We have also worked parallelly to pay our doctors and healthcare professionals, as well as their working conditions to significantly improve and increase. A few days ago, we paid off, in all this crisis, and 10,000 dinars to every health worker. In the first wave of the kovida epidemic, we also reacted in the best possible way and obtained a huge number of respirators and all the necessary elements related to the health system. And it was hard, you all know, to get to one single respirator. In parallel with that front, where we were only in health, we had to, gentlemen, deal with another front, which is to save our economy. And because of that, among other things, we now have the smallest drop in GDP of 1%. It is not just us, boasters, as we are often accused, by the SNS, but by the attitude of all relevant international institutions dealing with areas of finance, such as the IMF, such as the World Bank, to continue. We saved a small economy by suffering to keep every job, suffering the minimals. We gave every adult citizen, an adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia 100 euros each. During all this time, these struggles to save our citizens' lives, to save our economy, which is causally-consequently linked, have daily been brutally accused and attacked by those who, during their government, failed to congratulate or renovate a single hospital, and not to do more than do more, other than spontaneous alterations of linoleum, curtains or painting. By at one point, the same people accused us of being a fascist government because we're deprived of our citizens' freedom of movement, as if we're defending someone to go out to dinner or a theatre show, not to save their lives. On the other hand, when it's been a month, two days then we're being attacked that we're not capable of introducing a state of emergency to save the lives of the citizens, but counting only on some accident that they'd be caught as hyenas and used as a weapon to fight us to come to power because they don't have any other weapons. The second issue that is constantly pressing on us is the issue of Kosovo, for which we constantly suffer unreal pressure from all sides to recognise this Frankenstein, created by international powerful men and Albanian mobsters. Although the issue has long been addressed to the merits of the former authorities in the seal of the international political agenda, this power, gentlemen, has brought the issue back to the table for an equal discussion on it. We were also constantly accused of having various conspiracy theories, in which even a small child can no longer believe, brought to power exclusively to recognise Kosovo. However, Kosovo, as you can see, not that it is not recognised, but 18 countries with a wise state-owned, strategic policy have recognised, 18 states that have voted already for its independence and resolved its status. Dear gentlemen, as far as internal security is concerned, although no country in the world has been deprived, it is not immune from this psychopathological phenomenon called crime, Serbia has now found itself a territory for the battle of certain clans that we now see, and the system is beginning to collapse, even in terms of the safety of the life of the president of the state, the institution of the president of the state. That wouldn't be some big problem if criminals were doing their job and certain civil servants who deal with the security of citizens were doing their job. But the problem arises when a partnership arises between these two diametric uncompromising sides, and then criminals want to become cops, and cops want to become criminals and to enjoy their merits by giving them away locations, giving them movements or who knows what else. It's a respected gentleman heresy who has to cut this country's roots for any progress since we've identified this problem and now we're going to solve it and as we've solved all the other problems and we're going to solve this one. I would ask the general public – is there a problem with us Serbs that we can integrate about, all of us and go into solving it? Are those who advocate democracy, civic education, liberalism, the breadth of all eyes, not the fruit of their own theoretical attitudes, and basically behave quite differently? Those who are constantly accusing this power have already had opportunities, not a small number of years to be in power. Dear friends, the numbers don't lie. You had opportunities and you were in power, did you build Belgrade on water, as one of the most beautiful parts of Europe's capitals? Did you return the ruined Serbian economy to healthy legs, extremely unpopular measures, risking that in a few years you would lose power, making it clear that this government is not their core intention just to be in power, but the well-being of their citizens? Have you respected gentlemen, while you were in power to make 320 kilometers of highways, 290 kilometers started, did you accidentally start pre-accession negotiations with the European Union or reduce the unemployment rate to 7.3%? Have you made a respectable country out of the humiliated state on an international political plan, which every strongest force in the world respects as an equal talker? We can speak equally to Brussels and Washington and Moscow and Beijing. Dear gentlemen, are you aware of your shame when you condemn the setting of such a magnificent monument, founder of the Serbian state Stefan Nemanja, imposing your taste as being the only credibility, as if no one else could, and we know that tastes are not worth discussing, so I also do not like the picture of Kazimir Maljevic - black square on white canvas, and does not mean that this is not a masterpiece of world painting. Have you honored the gentlemen of the opposition so much in the dishonour when you can't, in one word, tweet to praise the most beautiful mosaic, perhaps in the world that this government has done in the temple of the Holy Sava? Of course you can't. But I read that individuals are calling for mass protests to prevent all choices from being held next. Of course, while those for the health and safety of citizens, because there was a clear link between those devastating protests that were ahead of the Assembly and the second point of the Kovid epidemic. What exactly do you call honored gentlemen to? To destroy the constitutional order of a democratic state? Insubordination, should we not accidentally get hold of the authorities in that anarchy? On certain televisions every two minutes, the president of the state as an institution, not as Alexander Vukic, you call the ugliest names and words I cannot pronounce. First, what my children might be looking at, and secondly because I got this people's mandate to be decent in this high house, not to express myself like them. You invite every little bit to Twitter, on all social networks, on your media to die, to the funeral of the president and by some artists, who are indeed maestro in their area, but what kind of vocabulary is it, gentlemen? What kind of dictionary is that? What kind of agenda is that, do you want to come to power with that agenda and that vocabulary? The government is not won by accidentally respected friends, not won by violence, not by calling for anarchy, at least not in democratically developed countries such as Serbia. The power is won in the elections, but in order to win power in the elections you must have a clear political programme that will provide the people with double the salary, which will provide a stronger army, a greater possibility of employment, which will provide and create new hospitals, better health care, strengthen the army. To have all these things, first you must possess vision, then knowledge, then wisdom and ultimately courage and endurance to carry it all into action. And you, respected gentlemen of the opposition who are constantly criticizing this power, all together you don't have these qualities, because the only common denominator that you're joining up with is coming to power for a senseless personal gain, and that's exactly why you can't agree and you won't agree. I believe in the minds and wisdom of the Serbian people, and I am almost certain that you will never come to power legally, but please do not create an atmosphere of lynch and enter into this country as the old Greeks say hibris or discord at times when it is crucial that we all mobilise together all the capacities to get out of these burning problems as little damage as possible, and then, gentlemen, we see ourselves in the elections in a year, so let him win better. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u753	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u754	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished citizens, respected ministers with associates, we could talk a lot today about the results of the SNS-led government, the results of the finance ministry, the economy, everything we've achieved in the past six or eight years. We could brag, but not because we're boasters, but because we have something to brag about. Because it is not demagogy, because the bridges made by this government led by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, today Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic, these bridges exist. Over these bridges comes hundreds of thousands of tourists into our country, leaving money in it. These bridges go through our citizens, too. The roads we've built are not roads that exist only in promises, in projects that will never happen. There are these paths, and in record time we've made them, in record size we've made them, and we'll keep doing them, and every day we're working on it. The hospitals we've built don't only exist in pre-election promises, these hospitals exist in real time today and these hospitals today, thanks to the responsible policy of SNS and President Alexander Vukic, there are and there are anyone to use them today in this unfortunate situation where the whole world has found itself, including our country. Of course, there are finances. There's money in Serbia, but there's money, it's not that -- there's going to be money, there's going to be money, there's going to be money today, and money's going to be spent today, not on entertainment, not on marketing, not on promises, not on the travels of government members in Serbia, by spreading some kind of foggy and beautiful promises to their citizens, but spending money on projects used by all Serbian citizens. Money is spent on what will bring more money to Serbia, where we will be able to improve the lives of our citizens, that we will be able to move on in this difficult situation of health care to help the economy, to help the most vulnerable part of our population. Today we can also boast that because the whole world says that, says the East and the West, that's what the most important international experts, financial experts, say, that Serbia today is the most successful in Europe, in this year, what, I can say freely, the past 100 years have not been seen. We can also boast that next year, according to international community projections, we will be the most successful country in Europe. Well, is that little for a country of 7.5 million people? Is that small? We can also boast that there is a serious war against the mafia every day in Serbia, a serious war that causes several mobsters to go to prison every day, several killers. We can boast of record drug confiscation. We can boast about all these positive things and brag about it, talk about it. It's not going to stop those who bring their politics down to, I'm going to say, free-talking on Twitter, by threatening the President of the Republic with a murder, and by falling to the lowest possible, the poorest branches that today point to the most monstrous, perverse, most sleazy, most disgusting words of insult and threats to the children of the President of the Republic, the little Vulcan, Daniel, Mililica. What are the kids' faults? We won't forgive you children. You must not touch children in Serbia, nor the children of Alexander Vukic, nor the children of any official or any man in the country of Serbia, only because the parents or parents of those children are not in the place where you would love them. Of course, the Serbian mafia is scared. The Serbian mafia panicked. Every day, through their media bought and well-paid, not independent, as they like to point out, lead an organized hajka, primarily against the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, because it is he who leads Serbia today on the best path it has been on in the past 100 years. Serbia in Aleksandr Vukic did not get a politician who is in power, she got a statesman, a responsible statesman who sees not what will happen in a year or two, but that our children and what country will live in 10, 15, 20, 50 years from now, so we design our plans, ideas and programmes. Let's see what happens in this region in 50 years, what a security situation will be, what a health situation will be in the next five, 10 or 20 years. What are the challenges facing our region and how can we as one small country, but I would say with one smart and responsible people, how can we put ourselves in the whole situation and with as little damage as possible, and the more benefits we get out of all of it. I would say that everything that Serbian citizens see well, and I will not repeat, my colleagues have been perfect in the past two or three hours in this discussion, all of these facts are seen and felt by the citizens, as well as by the economy. This is seen not only through figures, but also when a regular man goes to the store to see what he could buy in 2012, and see what he could buy in 2020. Today, our colleague said that the topics in Serbia are no longer conflicts, accidents, the topic in Serbia is today how to secure an apartment, how to provide young couples with an apartment, how to provide schooling for their children at a better university, more prestigious, how to buy a car, how to get a more favourable loan. These are the essential topics of life today. These problems are solved daily. Today, Serbia is proud of what it is and is proud of its ancestors, proud of its history. Today Serbia is truly a real state and I believe that if we can get even more power together and we have to do it for the children, because of our children, we will provide even more support for Alexander Vukic today, especially when he is hit again with the family, the most sacred thing that each of us has, and these are children. I know it well as a parent, and I can't help but be angry when I read such things, that someone dares to have a small child, to threaten a baby with murder, death, to call for some lynching, and I don't know what it is. I appeal to all my colleagues to stand up for the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, because that's not only how we defend the President of the Republic, that's how we defend our country, that's how we defend our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u755	Thank you, People's Messenger. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 87, I am now setting a 60-minute break. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I just want to add to what I said earlier about the schedule of our work to plan, as planned and in Rule 205, when the session is under way during the last Thursday of the month, the parliamentary questions are being asked to the government, so on Thursday from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, and after that, we will vote, as it is so foreseen by the Rules of Procedure that there must be a session in progress, we cannot have a vote before that. We're moving on with the discussions. The word has Djordje Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u757	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a set of amendments to the laws of tax, customs, which the Minister spoke of today and yesterday at the Finance Committee, about which my colleagues in the past few hours have explained a little more. What I'd like to say is that I will certainly support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in the voting day. What I would like to say today, which refers to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, concerns the work of the Ministry of Finance, concerns the work of the Tax Administration of Serbia, which is a good and valid tax charge in the past few years. If you remember in 2014, then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic carried out heavy economic reforms and fiscal consolidation, and by then, in 2014 he recorded an extraordinary VAT payment, which was later shown as a good move and showed continuity in the growth of the tax collection. What I would like to say, and it concerns the policy that we have implemented in the continuity of previous years, also concerns the work of what has been done and on the growth of wages and on investment in the state of Serbia, in infrastructure, in everything we see as results today and everything we plan to do in the next five years through a strategic plan entitled "Serbia 2025". I am pleased that the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the continuity of what we have been doing for the past few years, and even in this area of tax collection, because you know, it's not good for society when you see someone driving a luxury car, it's not healthy when you see that they have luxury houses, apartments, and that in tax administration they are registered on a minimum or on some average salary. It's absolutely certain, and that's quite a percentage, that they've won that money on tax evasion and it's inadmissible for our country. I am very glad that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has come up with a plan, the National Programme for the Control of the Grey Economy 2019/20. The year that speaks clearly about it has certain action plans to curb the gray economy. However, the defeating fact was when I saw that the size of the grey economy in Serbia was 15% of GDP. That's when we translate about six billion euros. I can't even imagine six million euros, it's really a huge sum for me, but I'm quite sure that in Serbia there are those people who have managed to acquire significant capital and almost certainly not legal flows and who have managed to earn 619m euros, but six billion euros is a truly unthinkable sum for me. If according to the SI unit, the 600m-euro draw-out system from Serbia's budget would be Dragan Gilas, it would mean that every year you have 10 Gilas, 10 Gilas, 10 Gilas, and you know how well one managed to destroy Serbia. In that sense, it is important that I point out, and we all know this well, that Serbia's largest patriotism is paying taxes. Since the arrival of Aleksandar Vukic as Serbian Prime Minister, you no longer have the opportunity to make certain tycoons, certain politicians of their jobs and taxes they have not paid, do not execute, but care about the way. And remember only during the time when President Aleksandar Vukic, then Prime Minister of the Government, certain tycoons were and processed, after all, and then convicted of tax evasion, for the malversion of travel companies, and thus we showed that there is no playing with the state. This is important, important for all Serbian citizens, to know that today's tax is paid by everyone, from big football clubs to traffic. However, this here is, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the map of Europe. This little spot right here is Luxembourg. Luxembourg, on the surface of slightly smaller than Belgrade, by the population of just over half a million people, is the base of registered United Media, United Group Dragan Šolak and all media working in Serbia today. When you look at these cross-border channels, they operate in Serbia on the basis of the European Convention on Transboundary Television and on the re-emissioning of the programme, and they should broadcast it, whether from Luxembourg, whether from Slovenia, I don't know it, but I know for sure, and I'm almost convinced that it's being broadcast from Serbia. No one can prove to me that Olja Bećković, that Kesic, Ivan Ivanovic, Jugoslav Ćosic, "Falkonom" Šolaka, flies every weekend to Luxembourg, there produce a program, an anti-state programme, a programme against Aleksandr Vukic, against his family. When I say anti-state, I mean, no problem on my television show, they can tear off the southern Serbian province. When I talk about everything they do against President Alexander Vukic, and they certainly show it from the show in pathological hatred towards the President of the Republic. That is exactly what needs to be examined and it should be shown whether these cross-border channels operate and broadcast their programme in Luxembourg, while recasting it in Serbia, without any change, because it is legally and implies re-emissioning that, in general, the entire programme that is adapted, I suppose, to the citizens of Luxembourg or to the citizens of Slovenia, without any change in advertising, thus showing here in Serbia. Well, it won't be like that. It won't be because there's no evidence of the programme showing up in these two countries. Then we come up with one clear item and questions where United Group, where United Media, where N1, Nova S and all other channels pay taxes. In Serbia, they certainly don't pay it, they don't respect Serbian laws, they're not registered in the Register of Electronic Media. They don't have anything to do with REM, RATEL, SOKE. They have no obligation to the state of Serbia, but I am absolutely certain they have no obligation either to Luxembourg or to Slovenia and their tax systems, because they do not broadcast anything there. It's being broadcast here. The complete content, as I said, was directed and directed against the government of the Republic of Serbia, against President Aleksandr Vukic, against the state itself. I openly say that this is the work on a black one unregistered media that slowly grows into an unregistered political party in Serbia, leading to a fight against all of us. Against all of us when I say, I mean, first of all, the people of the SNS. I am convinced that every day they will show each and every one of us that they will find any flaw in order to fulfill what has been drawn out in the programme scheme and Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak. That's why it's important for the competent institutions to examine where Dragan Solak pays taxes, where Direk Media pays taxes, since they are also represented on United Media site as those who sell advertising seconds? It is also important for Serbian citizens to know that they have broken a bunch of laws, starting with the Law on Advertising, Article 35. Law on electronic media, article 100th positioning itself, i.e. its channels N1 and Nova S in front of RTS. Now I'm just baffled by whether N1, Nova S and other channels comply with the laws of Sby or the European Convention on Cross-border Channels. If this is the first one, then I am quite convinced that there is no re-emission, but only work on black pirate television and changes in the overall content and adjustment of the same for 900,000 subscribers in Serbia. Let's not talk about the fact that it's just about pulling money out of Serbia, pulling out and sucking out these bills of money that they're getting from selling seconds, so it's just for us to be clear where that money's going and how it's possible to represent five years in a series of companies that are down, that don't make any profits, and then sell it for 2.6 billion euros. It's a huge sum, inconceivable, once again. "Belgrade on Water" is being built for just over 3 billion euros. They manage to sell some loser. That nobody can explain to me that one loser could be worth 2.6 billion euros. It's about N1, New S and other anti-state and anti-national channels. I would just like to support the Minister of Finance, the Tax Administration of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially in this gambling game "Take the Account and Win" with prizes that are truly remarkable, but where the aim is to reach the citizens' awareness of why tax collection is important. It is important, because we all participate in some way in the fact that when money comes completely into the budget, it can be distributed in a fair way. Even in these crisis situations. That 10,000 dinars can be singled out, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia singled out for healthcare workers, that 100 euros allow every full-time citizen, that 4,000 dinars in April provide pensioners, 10% on the salary of all health workers, that we build these hoards of hospitals necessary in this difficult situation, that we can say that in the beginning of next year we can raise salaries and pensions and carry out everything that we have drawn out in the plan "Serbia 2025", and in particular the post-strophysive part that relates to salaries and pensions, which is that the average salary in Serbia is 900 euros, and the average pension of 440 euros. I would like to end up using this wingsaw of yours from the previous gambling “everyone gets when the grey economy loses. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u758	I thank my colleague. Next on the list is Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u759	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, Serbia's citizens are ahead of us the points of the agenda relating to draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law when it comes to the tax system and the customs system. Before I begin to explain, I would like to congratulate Mr. Minister and his associates on excellent results, especially on the excellent news you told us at the beginning of the session, because it is precisely, ladies and gentlemen, proof that all those reforms that have been carried out since 2014, launched by Aleksandar Vukic when he was Prime Minister. That Serbia today is much better positioned in the world and when it comes to the economy, when it comes to politics, when it comes to all other areas. Thanks to home-run economic policy, today we have managed to have a much greater demand for our bonds than before. We managed to cover the debt that the predecessors took at significantly unfavourable interest rates and to cover it today with bond broadcasting at much more affordable rates. When it comes to making proposals for amendments to the laws of my colleagues and colleagues, speakers have very well explained what the essence of all these changes is. I just want to say that these changes, in addition to the effects that we will have in terms of improving the work of the tax administration, in terms of the work of local self-government that will certainly work and more on collecting taxes that go directly into their budget, we will also achieve the significant fiscal discipline that is very much needed in the fight against the gray economy. Also, these changes that are here are more decisive and we are going to fight the gray economy because it is also an important segment when we talk about development finds an economy, about staying leaders when it comes to both economic growth and development and the opening of new jobs. Also, the policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia on digitisation, which Prime Minister Ana Brbanic spoke of, is also seen in these changes, as a growing part of communication with the taxpayers is being transferred to the electronic segment through digital communication. What we heard from the minister is that the next legislative solutions will continue to be digitised by our economy, which is indeed a major step towards further development and prosperity of the entire Republic of Serbia. In addition, I would like to say that these changes will allow, despite the struggle with the gray economy and the stimulation of entrepreneurship, the launch of new startups. Many young people in the previous period are mostly when they decide to start a job afraid of what will happen to the state, how to pay all taxes, which are tax provisions. With this approach and way of communication with taxpayers, i.e. state economic operators stimulates and supports their ideas that they have and that they realize and are a significant part of the contribution of our GDP growth. Also, as we can see, the state will be more determined to fight than it did in the previous period, when it comes to customs, because it will not allow anything that is illegally done. By extending the limitation period from three to five years to ten, they are about to fight to prevent such actions that are not in the interest of both our country and our budget. When it comes to, of course, open investment, alternative investment funds, also changes that we see harmonize with these laws and give incentives for further development and the opening of these funds and this kind of business in our country. Certainly, in the voting day, I will support all these amendments to the law, as well as the MPs of the SNS, and I call on all other fellow Members of Parliament to do the same in the voting day, because these are the very changes of the law and what awaits us are those steps that follow us so that we can successfully implement the "Serbia 2025" programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u760	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u761	At the very beginning, I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who, for the second time, is zealously showing that even in nature, and obviously, if necessary, for the moments in which we are located, the Ministry of Finance in this global and economic crisis will be ahead of not only in terms of everything that needs to be done, but also here in the National Assembly that in continuity not only because of budgetary dynamics will go out here in front of the MPs and in the moments in which we are to bring and propose those measures that are necessary to preserve our public finances, to raise them to a higher level. On the other hand, again with a complete sense of responsibility, a sensitivity to everything that happens in the Republic of Serbia about the pandemic of covids and the virus that practically harasss complete Serbia, that we have a feeling for all those taxpayers, for all those people who contribute to stabilising public finances in the Republic of Serbia and in such a difficult time that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sends a message that, at this moment, when we are making such proposals, we have reason and we have in some way constant in our minds. That just confirms this set of laws. Let me start at everything that's extremely important here to point out. I'd go this way. We are practically this set of laws, which today the Government through the Ministry of Finance proposes and confirms as one of the six principles and principles on which this Government of the Republic of Serbia is founded. It's a continuation of reform. This is about public finance reforms, in the tax system, in the customs system, in general, in the public finance system because all of what we have in some way made possible in such a difficult year, which will unfortunately mark the coronary virus, because it is the only mark in this year, we will come out with a set of laws that will in some way contribute to the stabilisation of public finances and that is exactly what is being confirmed today. For this reason, I am once again focusing on this continuation of the reforms that we have announced, but with the sensitivity of everything that we are at this point in time and crucially. The first principle of this is the fight for health, but on the other hand we need to make economic progress, we need to enable all the things that are important and how important, and at this point in order to respond to this struggle, the stability of public finances is crucial. Number two -- what's important to people in Serbia? It's important, and that's what the finance minister repeated last time, so we'll also have a situation in the budget, stability and payment of all public fees. So, everyone in Serbia with certainty can expect pensioners to get every month's pension, all those working in the public sector to get salaries and all other obligations in the social sector to settle regularly. In such a difficult situation, it is an extremely high level of responsibility. As regular and as necessary, in such a difficult situation, it is one big plus for our public finances. For this reason, this very optimum that we are going out with today confirms that, in addition to the responsibility that we have in terms of everything we have in this year, from the payment of 100 euros to each citizen, to the financial assistance of pensioners, the increase of 10% of the salary to healthcare workers, to this latest support of 10,000 dinars to healthcare workers, allows precisely the stability of real finances. In order for us to do what resources are, in terms of our incomes, we have to raise to one maximum level that implies that we will have security in this respect. That's exactly what this set of legal solutions shows. For this reason, perhaps the ungrateful role played by the Ministry of Finance is just confirming that in this regard we have prepared well for the right solutions in such difficult situations. When we talk about sensitivity, then I would primarily like to talk about the Tax Procedure Act that we are exchanging and supplementing today and which in a certain way just confirms everything I said in the introduction, which is a few things that are extremely important. In addition to the fact that we practically align these legal solutions with the Tax Act with other legislation, especially with alternative funds and other things that are highlighted here, but what is important is that in the Tax Procedure Act we introduce what is certainly part of the bond, including these public bonds, which is a higher power and we introduce, practically, not to a small door, but to a legal category of pandemic as something that is established and made possible in public finances. Of course, in order to be careful, to be responsible, so as not to be manipulative, so as not to be populist, the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes precisely with one serious dose of caution to approach everyone and to send a key message to those who today commit, to businessmen who regularly pay their tax obligations, to all legal entities, to all today, by paying taxes, they meet and, in addition to these other obligations, their highest patriotic obligation. Today to pay taxes, to hire one worker is to fulfill the highest form of patriotism because these revenues we make we can build a new kovid hospital, we can fight in this difficult way and financially against the pandemic. For all of this when someone says we're going to do something, they need to know tomorrow when they go to the finance ministry's office or tomorrow when they're sitting in some tax office in any community, they know how important the patriotic work is, as well as the citizens who go and pay that tax, and it's hard for them to know that it's going for all of these items, and that's that connection, and that's unity. That's the need for us to all be together in such a difficult situation. That's why the Ministry of Finance may, in addition to the Ministry of Health, be one of the key ministries to play a crucial and important role at the moment. For this reason, especially the provisions concerning, as you have stated here, the possibility of postponing debts, liabilities, but again with this rapper that I said at the beginning, along with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, together with the Ministry of Finance, will be able to coordinate this policy in order not to bring about a imbalance that in a certain sense we have a large amount of obligations, and on the other hand that we do not have that kind of income. It is a tantalizing battle and a battle in which small moments must be observed, and on the other hand it does not endanger public health or public finances, and first of all preserve the stability of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u762	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. According to statements for the word, the next is Professor Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u763	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what has become a practice in the work of Minister Malo is something that is very good for our country, and that is what it does whenever it comes here to the National Assembly, whether at a session of the Committee on Finance or at a plenary session, which is good news, good news for our finances, good news for our economy, good news for the future of our citizens, all of our people. This is especially important in these moments, the moments of great challenges when the president of our country, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our majority here in parliament are really, daily struggling to preserve the health system, to preserve people's lives, but to prepare ourselves before that for what will follow, we hope all for the next few months, which is to return to one normal life, to what we have and how we lived until before March this year. It is very important that in a place like this and at the place of the finance minister, we have a man who has succeeded in doing so in some normal time, but also now that we are faced with a huge, huge crisis not only in the region, but at the level of all Europe, developed EU countries, but also throughout the world. The most powerful countries in the world are in a major crisis, and they have a huge number of unemployed people. Many companies, many factories stopped working, closed their productions, closed their plants, fired workers and came to the benefit of our citizens and maintained such a level of economic and economic activity, that at the end of this year we will be the best in Europe, or that we will have the lowest GDP drop. What I think is the main message and what is the result of all that the Ministry of Finance has done, not only during the past few months, but in the past few years since Mr. Small Minister, is the next thing, that's something Mr. Miladin Kovacevic said yesterday at a session of the Finance Committee and it's a key thing for the economy, it's a key thing for our country and by the end of this year and we all hope, and for the next year, which is that no interested investor in this year has given up investing in Serbia. He did not give up because these investors coming from Germany, from Italy, from the United States, from South Korea, all those interested have already started investing and no one has said that because of the global crisis, they will give up Serbia. This clearly and sufficiently speaks of Serbia showing primarily that it is stable, that it can deal with crisis situations. So, here the crisis management was at a top level, of course, starting with the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who was clear at the beginning of March of this year, knew where to lead Serbia, knew how to fight this crisis, knew that he had to fight for every citizen of this country's life, but also knew that we had to preserve the economy. Of course, and this is one of his key abilities and skills, to choose a good team, to choose people who also have professional and professional, human and moral capacity to do the job for which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia chose them. It is no accident, then, that we are talking about the fact that President Vukic and SNS have the current support of 66% of SNS citizens, because there should not be an expert on economics, nor an expert on political sciences or rights or foreign policy, that the naked eye can be seen that Serbia has survived, that it has shown that it is very tough, that it has shown that it can be stable and has enough knowledge. And that is what is most important as a message to citizens that there are enough good people in our party, but also those outside of it, who can be chosen to run health care, to run finances, to run the country's economy, to run Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. This is, of course, the result of the vision and the skill of President Aleksandr Vukic, but also the result of the good and quality coordination of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Business, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, those of people who deal with health in our country, internal security, foreign policy. So that's one comprehensive result of everything we've defined for something that's a vision of Serbia, not for the next three months, or six months, but for the next five years, for the next 10 years. We, people, have for the first time someone who runs this country and who doesn't think from today until tomorrow, who doesn't only think about his mandate, because President Aleksandar Vukic made it clear through the plan "Serbia 2025" to everyone and to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that he thinks that together we all think that Serbia will look five, ten, fifteen or twenty years from now and that we are not interested in whether we will then be in power and whether in three, four or five years from now we will be in political positions. We are interested in making a good, orderly, stable state for our children, for our parents, for our grandparents, for all those who participate in our country's social life and to ensure that everyone lives in one dignified and honorable way in this country. To provide young people with, not work, ambience, to provide them with equal chances of getting a job, to be able to valorize their knowledge, their college, their doctorate, our master's degree, to provide our grandparents with regular and stable pensions, health care workers with respect, to honor them. Today, the President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, presented medals to all those who deserve it, who today are fighting for every life, who are fighting for their country, who are fighting for Serbia. And social work centres and public health centres, so to all those involved, who help, without whom you couldn't give this fight results without which this fight couldn't be successful. What is also important to say is that thanks to fiscal consolidation, thanks to a very well-designed fiscal, or tax policy, as my colleague Djordje Todorovic said a little earlier, he would naturally charge taxes and create a good environment for businessmen who are also motivated to pay the same. Are these taxes, contributions to the income of citizens or is that value added tax or is that profit tax, what is most important for our country is that the level, or percentage of tax collection is excellent and that what is one of the main, basic, basic lessons in the economy, and that is that we do not have that so-called. “Evasion” of taxes, that we have fewer and fewer businessmen, that is, people who are forced to avoid paying taxes. This means that the ministry, i.e. the state, has found a good way to distract them and find a way for them to simply do their job so that they have the opportunity to pay salaries to employees, but also to pay their state obligations by paying taxes and contributions, VAT and profit taxes to those who earn profits. I think that one of the main results in all of this is that it is one of the world's most important financial houses, so "Mudis", defined Serbia as a country with a Ba3 investment rating, which is one of the highest possible investment and credit ratings, even more importantly, that in practice it is being implemented, that it is doing what the Ministry of Finance does, the Ministry of Economy, which is to create a good environment, and that is the fact that Serbia is definitely the best investment destination in this part of Europe. It is the fact that the country wants to invest in Americans, that they want to invest both South Koreans and Chinese and Russian Federation companies and EU companies. In this whole crisis, in all this madness in some countries, it comes to the fact that these same investors do not regret and think about whether they will invest one euro in this country and some invest a few dozen million euros. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, dear and esteemed colleagues, how much it takes for someone to trust someone who comes from a foreign country and to invest everything that has been earned and earned for years in a small country that until just a few years ago was considered a poor country of this region, for a country of losers, for a country in which no investment and investment has been paid, but has not been paid, and no one has had motive to come here as a tourist. Unfortunately, this pandemic has prevented us from producing, or developing, the tourism industry at the highest possible level, because in 2019, it ended up at a record, historical level at income, or 1.4 billion euros in tourism revenue, and we will return that revenue and we will be better, because we are better and on the foreign-political plan, because everyone here wants to come, because they want the Israelis to come, because they want people from China, Japan, from all the world's meridians, because, thanks to our president and clear political will and vision, we have made a country that is treated throughout the world as a modern country, as a progressive country, in which it is worth investing, in which it is nice to come, in which it is nice to live. Essentially, I think a lot of things will remain when we look into our eyes with our citizens in 10, 15, 20 years, respected ministers, when we finish "Belgrade on Water", thanks to you, who is a capitalist, who is a historic project for Belgrade because now Belgrade has a completely new look. When you go to Gazel, you pass by and you feel like you're in a Philadelphia or in a country in the United States or in a developed country of Western Europe or the Far East, with those towers, with a "St. Ridges" hotel to be built, with nice promenades, great, beautiful restaurants, the possibility that our children, our parents, our fellow citizens will walk around and spend a good time. So, we make our city beautiful, we make our country beautiful, we invest. We did it all because someone still trusted us. However, this Alabar, however, his company that built the Burge Kalifu and did the projects, I think for tens of billions of euros, decided to invest here in Belgrade, to invest here in Serbia. Thanks for that. We'll all try to justify that trust, to be even better, to attract all these people to invest here, to stay here and be the initial chapels for coming and other investors, but also tourists, to our country in the future. Can you imagine if someone told you, distinguished colleagues, up until a few years ago, that a square of an apartment or a business space would cost you in Belgrade and reach the price of nine thousand euros, as it is in this tower? The minister told me last year that neither the foundation was dug up nor that apartments and business premises were sold for 9,000 euros. What does that tell you? It tells you that we are now a destination not only for what they are and what this regime before SNS was doing, which is unfortunately, we were a destination for speculative capital, we were a destination for a variety of speculators, criminals who bought out companies for cheap money, bought out companies, their equipment, and after only a few months fired workers, and at best built residential buildings and, of course, made personal money on it. We have definitely interrupted this practice thanks to President Alexander Vucic, and now we have a situation for a NCR American to come to this country, to come "Coopers", to come from the United Arab Emirates, that here our office, the only one in Europe, opens up the American DFC, thanks to the same President Vukic, who created a real and raised the level of bilateral relations with the United States in the past four years at a level that we haven't had almost until, perhaps before, will correct me fellow Martinovic, during the First World War, at the time of Woodrow Wilson then and Michael Pupin, who were friends and colleagues for a few reasons. But it has been over 100 years since then, and we have now come back to the situation that, from a very difficult position in which we were not working, thanks to inactivity, thanks to the most irresponsible people in this country's political history, since we were founded as a state, in 1878, thanks to them, we have come to the seal of not Europe, but we have come and we have been the seal of the region, call it what you want – the Western Balkans or Southeast Europe. Now we are a country, imagine, which last year, in 2019, about it rarely speaking, we were second in Europe, Mr. Minister, Poland was first with GDP growth 5.1 and we were somewhere around 4.2 or 4.3. Is it possible that all of what I've been talking about, and that is really a small part of what has been done for these underage six years, is it possible that people who should participate in this country's political life, regardless of how much the people support them, is it possible that they are dealing with chickens and chickens in some military facilities, to deal with all things just not with the things concerning politics, the future, the citizens of this country, their standards, their dignity and all that we need to maintain the dignity of this country and to ensure the future for this country and these people. I agree with George, and I don't think it should be a big deal, let's see people, all of us here have committed ourselves, and especially us MPs to work in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this country, but the businessmen and the capital owners and those who come from America, but also these domestics, there's justice blind, there's the rule of law completely blind, let's see really where these people pay taxes and contributions to their employees in that company that we just talked about, about the SBB. Where does this VAT pay? Don't tell me, please, that it's normal for someone here from the Kosovo street or from a nearby restaurant to pay their dues and of course they should pay, and someone who knows where to look through his fingers for what is his biggest obligation just because he allegedly represents another Serbia, because they represent an elite Serbia and because they will sue their country, their president some white-world NGOs or white-world tycoons. This is no longer Serbia that worked and was here until 2012. This is no longer a humiliated country. This is a country of dignity. This is the country that created an economic background for being a patriot country, for this country to invest in Trebinj Airport, to invest in the factory in Drvar, to invest money in Srebrenica, to help Serbs and Northern Macedonia, to help those who need it and who are part of our national corps, dignity, of course, and national interest. So, Mr. Minister, I can only say that here as a majority and someone who is a member of this majority, we can only support what is done in the field of fiscal policy, customs policy and, of course, support the uncompromising and undivided fight against the grey, black economy and of course, money laundering and all those social anomalies that affect the dignity, life and living standards of our citizens, and in that you will, I am sure you will have the undivided great support of our people here in parliament, but of course, given the picture in Parliament of us here 170 that make SNS MPs and plus coalition partners, you have the highway to do everything that this country needs in the coming period, to be as strong as possible, in order for our economy to be among the best and strongest in all of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u764	I thank my colleague Marinkovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u765	I must admit that previous speakers have said almost everything about this agenda today, and I believe that each of the speakers has made a great contribution to ensure that citizens who watch this transmission and who will send out everything that happened today at the session of the Assembly are able to understand what it is that we discussed today. I'm just going to take a brief look at the three changes that I find kind of most interesting and these three changes show just three facts. The first is that you had understanding of the needs of citizens, the second change is the fact that you understood and how local self-governments breathe, and the third one refers to household behavior, as the Ministry of Finance has already had some period backwards and which enables our country's financial stability. The first change, therefore, is essentially related to facilitating the tax procedure and thus enables people to carry out by electronic means everything they have so far not been able to do. This applies to the return or registration of debt, whether the reduction, the wrongly paid tax or the return of the same, and thus you have shown that you understand the need, first of all I will tell younger clients who are much easier to do this by electronic means. I'm sure in a short time period you'll have concrete results where you'll see how necessary that was. This way you shorten the process, save time, but save time for citizens who will be able to do what they need to do from their homes. As far as the second amendment and addition of the property tax law is concerned, it is a very important change. It concerns simple things that allow a gift tax, an inheritance to be transferred to local self-government, that it no longer does the Tax Administration, and thus you show the willingness to disburse a part of the system, but thus you show the trust you have in local self-government, because de facto those of your budget, people say and fill it that way. I believe that the motivation of local self-government will be even greater and that this will maximise the collection of that tax. There you have shown willingness to decentralisation, you have shown willingness to cooperate with local self-government, and that's good, because I think those people on your field know their problems best, and they know they're fighting for every penny for their citizens. What is particularly interesting to me is the fact that you have shown today that you are domestically heading towards each Serbian citizen's dinar, is the fact that in the amendment and addition of the Customs Code, the period is extended, and the penalty in the customs offence is concerned. This is very good, because in this way you give extra time to the state people told to charge, you give extra time to react, and thus you show that you care that everyone who commits the offence pays their punishment. It is especially important to point out today when we had until a few weeks or months ago a president of the municipality in Belgrade, the municipality of Stari Grad, Marko Bastic, who was just caught smuggling a 13000-euro exchange at Nikola Tesla. I'm going to ask you a question in some future period – how far did it go with that? So we have to show that people who are in power or at all costs want to be government cannot be protected in favour of any citizen of Serbia. In this way you have shown your willingness to fight and to protect every citizen of Serbia, because in the same way you will return that dinar to the citizens through new roads and new homes of health, new investments, new jobs or, in the end, what brings the citizens the most joy, even greater wages and pensions. I'll end it, I'm sorry, like every time you've brought us some good news at the beginning of this session, but I'm sorry that we've devoted a little bit to it, because I believe, it's not the agenda point, but we have to look back at it, the second time Serbia's going out on an international financial scene, if we can say so, the London Stock Exchange was something that was almost unimaginable. The first time we went out, I remember when people who ruined Belgrade and Serbia were talking about it being a lie, and then they convinced us it wasn't good, we heard a lot of things, and thank you very much for making this company where you clearly showed that we went out at the rate today, so you're going to fix me, like, 2%, and we went out at 7.25% in 2011, right? So, I got it right. And you pulled the parallel if we were three times better now, more successful, if they had applied the same conditions in 2011, they would have saved 500m euros on interest only. Respected ministers and respected co-workers of Minister Sinisha Maloko, if these people had thought of anything, and not only of personal interest and personal wealth, they would not have left in Belgrade a debt of billions and 200m euros and would not have thrown Serbia on its knees and then we would be fighting strong reforms, unpopular, to provide citizens and salaries and pensions. So if they had thought about how to make life better for the citizens, not how to put 690m euros in their pockets, today you wouldn't have these problems and you wouldn't have many problems before you'd fight them. I am sorry that even today after this session, your excellent result as a result of the responsible policy of President Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government will be tried to cast itself into some sort of shadow and throw away some shadow, but I think now, too, the greatest skeptics, the people who had the least confidence, can no longer say anything, because this is also another in a series of evidence of how strong the Serbian economy is and how much today we take care of every dinar and how successful we are today. You've come up with one more thing, and I'm going to end up with it, today and this we haven't increased public debt, we're paying back today's news, and everything they've left behind in the legacy of people who think today they can fool somebody again, steal someone's trust and get their hands on the tills again and get back in power. And today you have shown why Serbia and at the moment of this crisis that is ruling around the world is one of the few countries that can increase both wages and pensions, but also invest. Thank you for this, thank you for following the responsible policy of President Alexander Vukic, who has been struck over the last few weeks, months, a constant blow exposed to people who hate him just because he is more successful, more quality, more honest than they are and just because someone else wants to force himself into power. In us, as previous colleagues have said, you will always have a responsible associate, you will have people who will always support such good proposals, but we will always be there to convey citizens' opinions on every topic. Thank you for this good news, thank you for these good suggestions, and I hope that in the coming period you will bring us more good news and suggestions, so that everyone together as one big team will work for a team called Serbia, citizens of Serbia and for the general interest of all the generations that live today and are just coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u766	Thanks, buddy. National MP Milos Bandur is next, according to the application for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u767	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, after reading the amendments and supplementing this set of tax and customs laws, indeed concludes that there is a legitimate need for these amendments to be adopted. Simply, the Kovid-19 epidemic itself has caused certain legal changes this year, as well as legal practice very often imposes appropriate changes, because certain provisions should always be or some provisions should be specified in order to narrow down the space for their interpretation and thus simply increase the legal certainty of citizens, in this case by taxpayers. Of course, in April of the month, the government of the Republic of Serbia, we all know, has passed a regulation that transfers taxpayers from one quarter to 2021, i.e. from January 1, 2021, to the next 24 months. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in one of its amendments refers precisely to this, to this situation, but also to all possible similar situations in which we can find ourselves, where a decision by the Government may transfer the corresponding tax obligations to another period of time. So, this member of the law has a return fact, which is very unusual, but it's completely justified in view of the situation we're in. This means that this article is applied to the calendar year in which the law is passed. As can be seen from these changes and as can be seen from the tax practice itself, we are simply going to round up the concept of digital administration, i.e. electronic administration, and also digitisation in the field of tax administration. From 2018 it is possible to submit a tax application for VAT via an e-portal and from 2019 it is possible to submit a tax application for property tax, i.e. immovableity. At that time, it was written in one article that a natural person, a natural person, has 10 times more than legal persons and entrepreneurs in total as taxpayers, that a natural person can be declared to receive the tax act by electronic means. This change that is proposed here is quite logical. If the physical face is addressed by electronic means, i.e. fill in the tax returns via the e-Government portal, it is perfectly logical that the tax act is obtained in the same way through the portal, without any need for it to be specifically declared. Of course, only that natural person who has a classical approach to the tax authority will be declared. What is particularly interesting and useful and goes in the direction of full digitisation, is that other tax requirements, i.e. other tax requirements, such as the tax payer's request for a tax credit or the refund of the excess amount paid or certain tax delays, can also be referred through the tax administration portal. In this way not only reduces the time of communication between the taxpayer and the administration, but also, the colleagues talked about it, simplifies, or reduces the costs on the part of the Tax Administration, as it communicates with all taxpayers. As is known, on 1 January 2022, it is planned to round up this concept of electronic administration, that the information systems of local tax administrations be integrated and fully integrated into a single system with the state tax administration and transfer responsibility or collection, i.e. determining the collection and control of inheritance taxes, the gift and the transfer of absolute rights, the transfer from the state tax administration to the local tax administration is one step in this, because it is absolutely logical that the one to whom the income belongs is more interested in collecting them than someone else. Of course, everyone will make sure that they collect their own income properly, without any failures, so the most active is when they collect for themselves, and this income belongs to local self-government. It's her, as I understand it, paid income, unlike the real estate tax that is the original income of local self-government. What is quite logical is that our colleagues in the previous meeting passed two laws on 10 October 2019, one on open investment funds and the other on alternative investment funds. The laws have entered into force, in fact they started to apply on 20 April of this year, when the Securities Commission adopted rules that bring the business closer, the establishment of the business of these funds. Of course, since you have a new subject of taxation, it is necessary to enter into laws, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and the Property Tax Act. Because if the fund owns real estate, holds it or uses it, it should pay the property tax. If he receives a gift, an inheritance or carries out a transfer of absolute rights without compensation, he should also pay a corresponding tax. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration regulates such a process to detail and says that the Fund Management Company is the one that participates in such a procedure on behalf of the Fund and on behalf of the Fund, and the property of the Fund. The fund doesn't have to be a legal person, but the fund management company is, of course, a legal person. I'd like to stay for a few precisions that were made in the Property Act. I fully support the downgrading of property or house tax, with a reduction of up to 50%, a maximum of 20,000 dinars, not as it said – if the owner lives in the apartment, but if the apartment has a registered residence. So that's one much better formulation. Also, when it comes to the processing industry's plants, the tax base for them is accounting value. In order to avoid abuse, it has been specified that it is only in a situation where the processing industry is being used for that purpose. It is good that there has been a relief in the agricultural production of small scales, i.e. primary agricultural production, where the facilities of such production for those who do not use the tax books, i.e. do not have the obligation to keep tax books, are simply exempt from the tax. I would stay here the most on real estate tax in local self-government, since, for example, we in Nis in the last term of property tax recognized real estate tax as the second most important source of funding for local self-government. Simply, the profit tax is the largest and most of our incomes from the current tax, but the property tax is something where we recognize, where Mayor Bulatovic recognized the potential that was not used. For example, in 2012, in Nis, we achieved a tax on property of 170 million. Of course, our administration has made some shifts from 2012 to 2016, and in 2017 we made that tax of 453 million. However, in 2017, the mayor created a working group tasked with reforming the local tax administration and in co-operation with city municipalities and public enterprises a list of properties in the city was made. As a result, we have the number of real estates increased by two times, i.e. the number of property subject to tax is doubled, so in 2018 the potential tax liability of property was around a billion and 180 million, and the following year another 12,000 property was recorded, so the tax liability was potentially a billion and 370 million. Of course, that's where we did five things. Not only did the teams visit the field and sign the facilities, but they also found the actual size of certain objects, that is, their useful surfaces. Inheritance decisions are recorded as well as purchase contracts. In the law, I noticed one good thing, that is, in these changes, that public notebooks are obliged to deliver purchase contracts or solutions to inherit the local tax administration within 30 days. They're interesting and interesting when it comes to zoning. We know that each local self-government must have at least two equipment zones and that the average price in the zone is determined by the fact that over the course of nine months, all sales prices are collected and distributed, i.e. the average sales value is found. It's interesting that this period is increasing to 12 months, which brings with it two benefits. First, a longer period of time would mean a greater number of cases falling during that period, which means more precisely one fair determination of the average value. In case we don't have three traffics in a specific area for an object or a certain type of object, by increasing the period from nine to 12, we're actually increasing the probability that this third case or three cases happen, so this increase from nine to 12 months in which the average price per zone counts is very good, for these two reasons. Also, I think that a good solution to determine the average price in the most equipped and unequipped zone is in such a way that for these prices, the highest average price of the areas surrounding the zone is taken for the price in the most equipped zone, and for the average price in the most unequipped zone, the lowest average price of those zones surrounding the zone is taken. It's, from the point of view of someone who's been doing these things a little bit, very good legal solutions. My conclusion is, based on that experience we have in Nis, it's a good thing there are more zones of equipment in town. We have 11 zones. We didn't increase the tax rate, we didn't increase the unit price of taxes per zone, but we managed to increase the tax revenues several times with a larger coverage and real state records on the ground. I truly fully support these changes that are on the agenda and I congratulate you on the success that you have announced to us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u768	Thanks, buddy. A colleague of Uglješa Mrdić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u769	The respected chairman, respected ministers and co-workers of the minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, these proposed tax and customs laws will greatly improve the work of both the Tax Administrations and customs administrations in the coming period, and it is clear how good they are for further economic and economic development of the Republic of Serbia. I congratulate you, Minister, on everything you have done in the previous period and on what you are now doing regarding the financial stabilisation of Serbia and economic policy. It is just a confirmation that as far as financial and economic policies are concerned, the Serbian government is doing great, both the Serbian government and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. On the one hand, however, we have a situation that you who are ministers in the government and who have specific tasks in the areas, in these difficult moments and the fight against the Crown and the Mafia, are doing your job in the best interests of Serbian citizens, and on the other hand we have almost daily organised attacks by tycoons, most often by those who have spoken in detail, who have not only not only paid taxes, but have stolen our country, our budget, all Serbian citizens, put hundreds of millions of euros in their pockets, which are also supported by certain mafia clans, and on the other hand, we are giving the MPs here in the executive government full support to respect and implement all these laws, especially those concerning tax policies. Also, I have one more thing to point out and I won't owe much. If it hadn't been for this great financial policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Alexander Vukic in the previous period, we wouldn't have been able to respond to the current challenges when it comes to the fight against the crown of the virus, and one of the results is that our President Aleksandar Vukic is still visiting the Kovid hospital in Batajnica tonight. So, the state also took care when there was no crown to invest in healthcare, and there would be no money to invest in health if it hadn't been for good financial policy and the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, supported and led by President Aleksandar Vukic, and while he was prime minister and now as president of the Republic of Serbia. Before you, or before us, by 2012, and in Belgrade by 2014, those who did not just invest in hospitals were in power, but were destroying hospitals. Mr. Minister, you know perfectly well as the mayor of Belgrade what kind of situation you found when you first became president of the provisional body, and then the mayor of Belgrade, what your predecessor Dragan Gilas was doing as mayor and in what state our capital, our capital, has left you. Therefore, this way I want to provide you with full support as well as the Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia as regards excellent financial and economic policies at the same time, yes and this time, and we have seen today's cross-section as regards the crown, to provide one great support to our heroes, these are our doctors, who fight every day to save which life they are doing more and succeeding in doing so. It is not easy, but thanks to President Vukic's policy, the Serbian government and the health ministry, and in this difficult time of battle against the crown, we have managed to reduce the number of victims to a minimum. And finally, full support for the Serbian government in the fight against the mafia, because the fight against the mafia, I see some results these days, is directly related to these laws, because the better the fight against the mafia, and when we have concrete results, that is more money in Serbia's budget. Because who didn't pay taxes? They didn't just pay criminals, they didn't pay tycoons. We are these days witnessing the arrest of members of the most dangerous criminal clans in the region. This way, I want to express my full support, primarily the courage and strength of President Aleksandar Vukic and the president of Serbia and the Serbian government, because the Serbian government led by Ana Brnabic is now in serious challenges, and the mafia is responding. The mafia also responds through the media, the mafia responds through the tycoon, and the mafia responds through threats. My colleagues spoke of me as a mental threat to the family of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and himself. All those from the SNS and members of the Serbian government who stand up for President Vukic's defence and are automatically exposed to attacks by the same tycoons, the same mobsters, the same ones who do not matter at all, both state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I would like to tell you that my dear colleagues from the SNS, which is what we expect from other parliamentary groups and other MPs to support also in the day of voting to pass these laws and thus provide another support to both the Serbian government and the Serbian president. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u770	Thanks, buddy. According to reports, the next MP is Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u771	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We from the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws of today's agenda, and we have heard in the debate so far from the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Ms. Čaapić, and from all other speakers, to say all those arguments and reasons why the proposed acts should be adopted. If I hadn't come into a situation to repeat what the key reasons are, but also the goals that these legal solutions achieve, I would have taken advantage of this announcement. Today when we talk about the tax procedure, when we talk about the tax administration, when we talk about the efficiency of our tax system, when we talk about improving tax policy in Serbia, to point out ministers, to a phenomenon that has interested the public, which points to possible abuses when broadcasting videos that call for a boycott of parliamentary elections. In fact, many media outlets today report that the private firm of a certain Jovana Polic, who does not know, is a close associate of Slavo Lekic, and the company, and Jovana Polic, paid videos for a boycott of the elections that were broadcast on TVs N1 and Nova S during the election campaign, and then passed them on and gave them to Dragan Gilas and his then Alliance for Serbia. It is over 400 broadcast videos that were visually identical to the campaign conducted by Dragan Gilas in an invitation to a boycott. If the camera can record it, it looks something like this. So there is almost no difference between the Dragan Gilas campaign and the campaign paid by the private firm of close associate Slavo Lekic. The company's name is JSP. Its head, as I said, is longtime associate Slavi Lekic, Jovana Polic. I would add that it is previously known for various anti-Serb projects and anti-Serb films. This is not claimed by the ministers by anyone in the SNS. So this isn't anyone's flat-rate, it's a CINS annual report. We can say a lot about CINS, but we certainly can't say that CINS is prone to SNS or that SNS can affect CINS. It should be remembered that this team, the same team, made the one by the evil famous film, they call it, a film called "Governmental", which, until the sudden after they turned on N1 television in which in two extensions, the dirtiest until then was promoted, I will say freely, the unrecorded most filthy campaign and the completely open hatred for Alexander Vukic. So, a film in which a group of obscenities most openly insults the president of the country in the worst possible way. So remember the amount of these insults. Remember that monster hickey. Remember that dozens and dozens of possible insults were made at the expense of the president of the state in that film. Now it turns out that same team paid for Gilas's shows on School TV. Then after that, she freed them to Dragan Gilas to hang it on YouTube channels. Now I'm asking, what's the motive for this bust? Is it an attempt to cloud the leads of Gilas's politics and the School's media, without neglecting their proven financial connection and companionship earlier? Or it is a motive to avoid obligations before the Corruption Prevention Agency because the money for this campaign was formally and officially not given by any political party but by a private firm, allegedly out of its own conviction, if anyone in Serbia is willing to believe that it is their own conviction. The third question of the minister, which is imposed on this relationship, is about the price paid for these videos. So there was a huge difference between the prices of these videos and the prices paid by other political parties. Here, for example, I'm going to say that the SNS paid 3.9 million dinars for 28 pre-election videos on the same television, and Poliæeva paid 1.2 million dinars for over 400 videos. So where's the logic, where there's elemental financial logic. All these questions point to the need to open a wider investigation, to say, about possible financial machinations, and I urge you ministers and tax authorities to establish, in accordance with their powers, competences, whether there are criminal and criminal elements here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u772	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u773	Respected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected finance ministers, respected ladies and gentlemen, what to say more when colleagues and colleagues have already said about this set of proposed laws. However, I will mention a bill that no one has mentioned today, just a few sentences, a proposal for a loan agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Republic of Serbia. It is a $100m loan for the implementation of the "Arregular Response of Serbia to Kovid-19" project. It's extremely important and current today. In fact, the project will contribute to the activation of all those investments and contribute to those investments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has already realised or even implemented. This will also contribute to better control of the Kovid-19 virus, and to this end the necessary equipment will be purchased, the capacity to monitor and provide technical assistance will be built. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the project will be affirmed in such a way that it will finance activities that have four objectives. First, the restriction of local Kovida-19, second development and operationalisation of measures not social, I would say, physical distances through laws and through regulations. Third, strengthening our overall health system and the fourth promotion of communication infrastructure in order to spread information from national to regional importance. So much for that. While I am at this Kovid-19, Mr. Minister in the fight for the control of Kovid-19, our entire population was involved, and our healthcare workers were the most involved, besides, I said, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But there are also those who fight for the spread of Kovida-19, behold wonders. So, not for the suppression, but for the spread of Kovida-19, and they are knowingly involved in infecting our inhabitants and the mortality of our citizens. Dear citizens, you see it through certain networks and portals. I don't like to say it in general, so I'm going to make some specifics, so now I'm going to list who these people are. Among others, there are many of them, immediately to say there are university professors, doctors, ordinary citizens, politicians. So, there's no one in that, is there a fight to spread, not against, but to expand Kovida-19. Among other things, there's a professor. Milorad Slurry from Apatino. Look at the wonders, he collects signatures among teachers and among parents that children wear no masks and no one. What's the inspection doing? What are they doing here? So, the professor of physical education does that. Furthermore, Professor Mira Alečković. I've been calling her back, I think, 15 days here, in this tall house, and she's still going on. Every day, he swears by the most reprehensible words of the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Crisis Staff and fights against wearing masks, not wearing masks, but not wearing them. She's advocating this is fiction, and the university professor is working with our students. Look at the wonders, there's an association, it's called "The Land." What country is she talking about? She's working against the country, she's working against the citizens of our country. She's not the only one. Let's move on. Dragan Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia, has no minimum feelings for families who are killed by Kovida-19. He is constantly trying to use this serious disease and the misfortune of people for his cheap political problems. Dear citizens, he's doing it while he's in power. Remember? In the course of the pandemic, during quarantine, just to remind you, Gilas urged our pensioners to walk freely, claiming that the virus can't do anything to them, and today, shamelessly, it attacks people who are successfully protecting the health of our citizens and our economy, including you, Mr. Sinisha Mali, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. Gilas, just to be clear, five months ago, criticised the introduction of a curfew and complained that no one should ever shut us down, no matter how much it saved people's lives, millions and 700,000 pensioners. Is that right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Today, when Serbia strengthens the old and introduces new measures due to the third wave of the spread of the Kovida-19 virus, the Giki Mafia says the state is doing nothing to prevent the spread of the dangerous virus, etc. Dear citizens, don't be surprised it's from Gilas. Well, in 1308, in a conversation with the US Embassy's envoy in Belgrade, Gilas quoted me as saying, "I stand for the arrest of Mladic and I will give up Kosovo" and has settled into our country's traitorous bastards. Let's move on. He's not the only one. Even other opposition politicians, and so did he, have been trying to use the death of our patriarch for their sick jokes and fighting with the current government, which you have been able to read today and these two, three days lately. He joined them and athlete Ikodinovic. Look at the wonders, as top athlete, I quote: "The Patriarch's funeral will be the best act, stay with our program." Shame on him! They're the Gilasovites. They're not the only ones. Ivan Ivanovic lies and agrees with him, the one who entertains you sometimes, etc. And Bosko Obradovic, what about him? It spreads the truth about the time of death of our Patriarch Irine, but with the aim of Satanising the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. What he said, I'll quote. Citing, Bosko Obradovic says: "I believe that a statement on the death of the SPS patriarch has been postponed to give the ultimate evil a speech on the anti-terrorist exercise. I don't want to live in such a hell of a country," finished the quote. Without shame, he says, and without shame, for his cheek is firmer than the sole of a shoe and cannot be ashamed. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Bosca Obradovic lacks patriotism. There's a lack of patriotic spirit, but don't be surprised what he's saying. I'll remind the distinguished citizens of a few things he said besides the rest and what he did. Breaking into RIK, remember? He attacked a member of the RIK. Incursion into the municipality of Pecinci, incursion in the cabinet of Maja Gojkovic in this high house, raiding the police station of Guca, raiding the RTS building, raiding the Parliament of Gornji Milanovac Municipality building, attempting to break into REM, trying to break into the building of the Serbian presidency, breaking into the Belgrade City Assembly building, tearing down the fence outside the presidency of the Republic of Serbia, remember, respected citizens? The invasion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the flag violently opened the door, the front door, remember? The attack on Dr Martinovic at a session of the Administrative Committee, the attack on journalist "Pinka", the attack on Dr Martinovic at a session of the National Assembly on 29 December 2019 and physically attacked him here before the chairman, asked the Republika Srpska Army to carry out a coup and arrest President Aleksandr Vukic, threatened Aleksandr Vukic with a slap on the face of a godless betrayal of Kosovo and Metohija. On 19.11.2019, he said, believe it or not: "Wolf must urgently go to the US heart surgery to survive and that is why now is the right time to intensify attacks on him from all available weapons. “ Can you, honourable MPs, believe that this is said by one of the political parties? What if he were instead of President of the Dacic Assembly and chaired this National Assembly? Well, no one would stay here. He'd try anything to physically attack. He attacked and insulted Professor Dragoljub Micunovic in the ugliest words and, whatever I think of him. Micunovic, in a political sense, we often disagree, he's a respected professor, he's professor. Micunovic replied this way: "I am not interested in political hooligan Bosko Obradovic, who is trying to introduce tabloid prostitution into our political life." In the end, Zoran Lutovac, in a people called "the stray," accused the SNS government of campaigning against migrants. Look at the miracles, instead of us, his party colleague Goran Jesic, who said on 20.02.2020, quote: this has to do with a fool who wanders around Serbia with painted coolants, spreads fear, lies like a dog, and makes political campaigns out of unhappy people. Normally, referring to Bosko Obradovica. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in this campaign against Aleksandra Vukic, Yorvanka Tabaković in recent times and Sinisha Malia, back three days ago, behold wonders, Jelisaveta Sabljić, also joined, called Seka, an actress. Let me say... And do you know why he's attacking Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic? Because he's the best governor of the National Bank in 20 years. Isn't that right, esteemed citizens? Why Alexander Wolfie? Because he's the best president of the state in 50 years. Somebody say it isn't. Say is it or not, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? And Sinisha the Little, whose credit has it been for the financials in the last three years? We had the best financial success during him. Now, that, Mr. Mali, will never forgive you. Let me hang on to it for a while. Why is she saying that? Jelisaveta Sablic, called Seka, also criticises the state. She is not interested in the National Museum, what was done in culture during Tasovec and Vukosavljevic. She's not interested in the Museum of Contemporary Art and other cultural institutions. You know what she said about who's the best culture minister? She said Lecic. You know why? Because he says, "He introduced national pensions," and he adds, "And Maja Gojkovic, if he abolishes them, then I will recognise it," a quote concluded. This lady really misses patriotism. She said that you do not stay shocked, quote: "The country is where you are well, not where your charm is," finished quote. Mrs. Sablic, you have a deficiency or a lack of patriotic feelings. Patriotism is the cornerstone, ladies and gentlemen, of human morality. Patriotism is the sanctity of a man's soul. Remember, Mrs. Sablic, the Roman poet Seneca said, quote and underline this: "I don't like my country because it's beautiful, because it's rich, because it's advanced, I love it because it's mine," finished the quote. How, then, Mrs. Sablic, can we explain the patriotism of the Dutch who binds love to swamps? And how do you explain the love of the Arabs for sand and deserts or the love of the Swiss for snowmen in the Alps? Patriotism is the greatest ornament of a man's soul, which you, Mrs. Sabric, do not possess. Patriotism is the most beautiful virtue of a citizen, who seeks to advance the good and culture in which you work, his country and lay down his life, if necessary. The love of the country is the religion of the heart, Mrs. Sablic. When the greatest Greek philosopher, you know very well Mr. Martinovic, the greatest Greek philosopher Socrates, who was in the dungeon, persuaded his disciples to flee from the dungeon, he replied, quoting: "I remain in the dungeon, because the laws of my country that everyone is obliged to respect I want to obey," finished the quote. Finally, Mrs. Jelisaveta, when the King was liberating, at the time of the Austrian army's penetrating in Serbia came among his soldiers, you could look at it these days on TV screens, not authentically, since some were dissatisfied with the deviation and great fatigue, he said to them, quote: "I believe you are tired after so many wars, but know that today as never before, the country needs your help. I sympathise with you that you are eager for your kind and dear, and therefore I, your king, resolve your oaths to me, and that I, with my two sons, will die here defending my own breast and that the enemy will enter our homeland only through our dead bodies," finished the quote. And, quite in the end, Mrs. Sablic, list the history of the Serbian people, so as not to remain a stranger in your own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u774	Thank you. Sandra Christmas's national emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u775	Thank you. President of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and, above all, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I would first of all, before I begin my presentation, since Mr and my dear colleague, Mr Atlagic, is always inspired in his speeches, and I would add only one of my favorite sentences and as regards patriotism -Pariotism is not taught at school, that is something that these grandmothers teach. So, it's a fundamental indicator of what you should actually bring from home, but unfortunately we are witnessing that this is not happening in Serbia, in certain, but fortunately, in minority parts and groups. So, at the end of this debate today, I really need to say very exhaustive, there is no other thing that we would add, and that would complete this debate and supplement, perhaps our knowledge, as well as our citizens' notice, what new amendments to the laws that are before us today bring. Certainly, what is certain is that this set of laws is another one in a series that will provide Serbian citizens with a more orderly system, provide a better standard of life, i.e. life and improve further economic policy of the Republic of Serbia, and you, Mr. Mali, certainly each of us here is obliged to congratulate you, because besides our Serbian President, Alexander Vukic, Minister of Loncar, of course, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and other members of this government, you are above all the most responsible for the economic results Serbia has today and who place it first in Europe according to all parameters. Of course, you are also responsible for welcoming the next year and the next three of us as the first or among the first three countries in Europe for economic growth. I think your share of it is also crucial. However, previous days, the days behind us are days of truly immense sadness, the days in which we have sent what, to all the people of Serbia, the entire Orthodox world, has indeed been worth it, to our patriarch Irineus. Those days were simply for nothing but a noble sorrow, for a magnificent send-off, a worthy man like the patriarch Iriney. Unfortunately, you had a chance to see, hear, read in those days and some headlines of some newspapers and websites, which were not exactly the appropriate moment we were in. I have personally been deeply affected by such titles, and I have sincerely abstained from all these days by respecting and three days that we have declared to be sad and some basic culture, as I said, about patriotism, learn first in the house, and also about respecting others and some basic norms learnt exactly in the house, but it is obvious and of course I have waited for this moment here to be at a pay phone where there is absolutely and a place of this kind of speech, I really say what is on my heart and on my soul these days. So, during the period when, I remind you, we grieved and, first of all, we had to show one unity and unity, some media, first of all here I mean the media of Dragan Gilas, all of whom he directly manages and dictates titles on a daily basis, you had the opportunity to hear all sorts of beastly and monstrosic, above all godless titles that only used one unique thing, which is that even at that point, political profiting actually has an advantage over common sense. I will indeed do as painfully as it is, but for those who are watching today, my fellow MPs and you ministers, you certainly sent it, but for the sake of Serbian citizens simply not to forget somewhere this difficult moment for the Serbian people and the Serbian state and the way in which each other Serbia told us, fortunately unknown, foreign, far from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, far from the interest of the Republic of Serbia. These are just some of the headlines, I'll read them for a while. "In Plexiglas I love you, with all the gleam of my heart", "Vučić has politicized the funeral of Patriarch Irinej", "Bulović at the funeral of Irineja divides the people into a fake and true elite", "Protojev Petar Lukić welcomed everyone except Ana Brnabić", "Kovčeg Irinej to wear the Crisis Headquarters", "Who didn't come to the funeral of Irineja", etc. Unfortunately, there's still a lot of these headlines. I'm not saying, just headlines, unfortunately it all followed a detailed explanation. All these spins were media directed at only one man. Unfortunately, the patriarch served in this case as the means of Dragan Gilas to attack Alexander Vukic. So she just continued to run another one of Gilas' hickey media on Serbia's president. I remind you that at a time when another dignitary dedicated the church soul to God, very soon before this, the target was also Alexander Vukic in headlines that were daily prominent in Gilas' media. That is how Alexander Vukic is now guilty of everything that is happening in Serbia. I also remind all of Gilas' media and Dragan Gilas himself that for these results we have heard, and today we have heard another new piece of information from Minister Malia concerning the trade of paper of value, where Serbia is today, after so many years, and it is Alexander Vucic's fault. And I'll tell you – it's true. For economic progress, as citizens of Serbia today see and perceive both themselves and their lives in Serbia, Alexander Vukic is guilty, the government of the Republic of Serbia is guilty. For all the results, for number one in Europe, for number one in which we are fighting the coronary virus is Alexander Vukic. Blame Alexander Wolfie for everything. But for these malicious, malice, vulture headlines in the paper, it's Dragan Gilas and no one else. Shame isn't something he knows. From this very place, I want to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia that this is something Serbia must not forget. Serbia must not forget and must not allow this to become a narrative, a heifer that is constantly being led against the president of Serbia. Today, my colleagues talked about it, and they also showed you pictures of Serbian President, along with his son, his brother, in pictures that were spread on New S, N1, Gilas' media, Gilas' extended arm, compared to the criminals in which his life is directly put into danger, the life of his older son, the life of his younger son. Even today, where they say his youngest son is just a hologram, he doesn't exist. So to this extent go the monstrous sayings, headlines, and ultimately the entire propaganda of Dragan Gilas. That Gilas media is just a tool in the hands of the tycoon, and these are exactly what my colleague Aleksandar Markovic said before me, and about the really embarrassing violation of the Law on the financing of political parties and at all campaign behaviour, especially in election campaigns, where we heard, for sure, one of the ideas of the video that refers to the boycott is an associate of Slavi Lekic. And nothing would have been so sensational, no matter how bad and wrong it was, that the same Slavisa Lekic in a previous period, and I'm going to be attached here to a colleague who brought all the data related to this case, but what I simply have to add to bring Serbia's citizens somewhere closer to this whole picture, is that in the past time Dragan Gilas donated six million dinars to this particular Slavisa Lekic. How and for what? Slavisa Lekić is headed by "Media center". The "media Center", run by NUNS, the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, is no secret, you can check it all in the APR, so the available data, which is such a "media center" in financial problems, which belongs in principle to NUNS, whose head is Slavisa Lekic, takes six million from the same tycoon that is just such a relationship, transactional, and knows, and so here is an additional question, in addition to whether this video violates the law, whether the Freedom and Justice Party that took over the boycott video has reported this video as part of its campaign, or donation, which is obliged to report to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, or has it been kept silent? We're left to see. So, this claim is, in fact, proof of everything that Verica Barac has actually said backwards and what she has accused herself of, and that he is, as someone who trades for seconds, nothing is unknown to us, is no longer unknown to the citizens of Serbia in what way Dragan Gilas acquired his 619 million, one sovereign owner of advertising space in Serbia, which and how he can carry out a good maneuvering space and thus come into possession of a media space that is very serious, and in the campaign that we had the opportunity to send in June elections we saw how wide that space is, so that all stories of some kind of censorships or media freedoms really don't stand today. In fact, you saw that on this particular case, a boycott video, censorship exists on Nova S and N1 television. He took out his colleague's data. As I recall, that video was broadcast over 400 times. Not to mention the price he gave, which was almost nine times higher for the SNS. The final question arises – what service has Dragan Djilas actually done or asked NUNS, which I will repeat, is the owner of the "media centre" whose centre is Slavisa Lekic and is the abuse of the boycott video in the election campaign only part of the repayment of some debt? That's what we have to ask ourselves. We are left with all these marifetteluks behind which Dragan Gilas is being analyzed, that we try in a legal way to get an answer and that to this end, he engages absolutely every inch of this country, and I sincerely hope that we will reach that truth of 619 million in some future period and come. I cannot finish today's exposure to not mention one pearl of today, which also in this joint opposition for boycott and disaster present, which is Sergei Trifunovic. You mentioned him for a moment, Professor, and all that he said was shamefully related to the death of a patriarch, but that's not the end of it. On the daily level, you could collect all sorts of unblessing statements by Sergei Trifunovic, don't let God analyze them, then it would mean that there's something wrong with you. So actor and former President of the Free Citizens Movement Sergey Trifunovic called for a EU boycott. So, Serbia on the path of the EU, which holds to European values, I suppose, should, too. The opposition, whether it's in the boycott or not, but they're mostly in the boycott of themselves, they should be the first to be on that path and defend European values. They are the first to co-operate, and they are the first to say something to the Europarliamentaries when they come to visit us and try to impose Gilas' principles and criteria on election democracies. European Enlargement Commissioner Oliver Varhelji said on Monday that the Serbian government can quickly implement reforms in the area of the rule of law and media freedoms thanks to a large majority in parliament. We can agree on this sentence and we can't. It's already a matter of another kind of conversation and discussion, but certainly what's important is how the opposition sees Europe and how the opposition has any relation to this issue is exactly what Sergei is behind it on his Twitter, because that's where their policy is going. You can't see anything but some embarrassing press conference she held today, like Marinika Tepic, for which nobody is sure about any more of the lines of what to read and what to understand, other than some criminal reports that are mostly whaling in the air, and of all things there are just some lost chickens, some of which Marinika knows more about than we do. So, let's boycott the EU is their new steam, and I essentially really think that even this statement round only what they do all the time of their campaign, I can't say election campaigns because they haven't had, boycotted themselves, boycotted the right for Serbia to move forward into the European process, boycotted that Serbia has moved on to the economic stability it has come to, boycotted that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are on the path of prosperity and progress that Serbia has long ago. They have a choice to join that path or stay in the boycott forever, but unfortunately we know ourselves that regardless of how they boycott themselves, for starters, and then everything else, money doesn't boycott. That's what they sincerely hold on to, that's the religion they worship and that's what they truly and most believe in. So, as long as they stay on that path, we really have nothing against, let them just continue, but let them leave in peace everything that is worth Serbia, let them leave in peace what our patriarch and all the values we will stand for, which we will fight for, which is primarily the development of Serbia, the development of Republika Srpska and the fight for Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u776	Thank you. Since we've exhausted the list of speakers from the parliamentary lists, I have to ask the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who hasn't used his right, is he possibly reporting for a word? If not, then I ask, and I see that Minister Sinisha Mali signed up at the end of today's debate, to express his satisfaction with us for being together.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u777	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen MPs, just for the end, of course, what Mr Dacic said, with great satisfaction for a very constructive discussion, I am pleased that you understood the importance of the proposed laws, the laws relating to improving the work of the Tax Administration and improving the work of the Customs Administration. We try to make the growth rate of our economy as big as possible year after year. That we have as much as we can get into the budget from business activities. These incomes also finance increased salaries, increased pensions and a rise in the minimum labour price from year to year, finance highways, coviding hospitals, buying medicines and medical equipment, all that is necessary, not only to beat the Koron virus pandemic, but also to build a better and better society in Serbia. I'll give you just a few figures to see what the figures are, how important it is year by year, day by day to fight to improve the work of the tax administration and customs administration. You'll see in next year's budget, total income, let's just say the VAT we're designing is 600 billion dinars. So VAT revenues in the budget projected 600 billion dinars. One percent to charge more, through better tax administration work and 1% more through increased economic activity, that's six billion dinars, that's 50m euros. Only for the sake of comparison, these 10,000 dinars we gave as a one-time aid to all health employees last week are somewhere around 1.5 billion dinars. So just to see how some things can change and how they get and how they're clearer in perspective when you compare to some numbers. Customs revenues for the next year are 53 billion dinars, only 1% higher and we've earned more money and more money. Excise, say, 316 billion dinars. Of course, we'll talk about it when we talk about the budget for next year. Let me just say that only 1% on an annual level of a better city, greater economic activity, greater efficiency means higher revenue in the budget, and therefore we have more space for higher salaries for both schools and for health and highways. So these changes that were very important on the agenda and I want to thank you for your constructive dialogue. I will see you tomorrow with seven new agreements that are very important for the Republic of Serbia for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-24-0.u778	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 5 of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft laws, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure only decide on draft laws in general. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that part of the National Assembly session, as I have said before, at which MPs ask parliamentary questions to members of the government, will be held on the last Thursday of the month at the beginning of 4:00 p.m. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to inform you that today, on the basis of what we agreed on at the College, I have called the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session for the next Tuesday at 10.00 hours, with the agenda of the various proposals for the work of independent regulatory bodies, and that the orientation of that agreement that we have since the budget arrived at the National Assembly would be on 8 December. I'm closing for today's debate. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 17.25 p.m.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 151 MPs are present at the Hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from attending the session of MP Elvira Kovac. We continue to work and move on to a common principled and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 6 to 12 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend: Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Mining and Energy Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Dr. Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Irena Vujjevic, Minister of Environment Protection, Dr. Daniela Urosevic, Deputy Minister of Health, Filip Abramović, Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, Marko Blagojevic, Director of Public Investment Management and Ana Tripovic, Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 6 to 12 of the agenda, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and a single search on: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (The Emergency Response of the Republic of Serbia to Kovid-19) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on the loan of LD 2053 (200) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the financing of the public sector - Support for the efforts of the Republic of Serbia towards the mitigation of the pandemic Kovid-19, - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on the loan of LD 2025 (2019) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the Programme Loan - Energy Efficiency of the Central Government buildings, - Proposal for the Framework Agreement on the Framework Agreement of the Republic of Serbia (Frame) and the Republic of Serbia (Frame). Since only the finance minister is present here, which I thank him for, I ask him if he wants a word. Here you go.
