ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u663	It's good, Mr. President, that I've been reported to be in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u664	You're like a quiz, you answer first.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u665	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. I have three questions, actually one finding and one question. First of all, the SPS parliamentary club strongly condemns unscrupulous and brutal threats and attacks against Dr. Predrag Kon, a member of the Crisis Staff, a headquarters to fight the crown of the virus. The invitation to murder, the grandeur of totalitarian regime and fascism is inconceivable in the 21st century. All this is just a few hundred yards from a newly-seded hospital covid where over a few hundred citizens of Novi Sad are examined daily. Unimaginable threats to someone who deserves above all respect, to someone who is a hero today in Serbia, to someone who does the hardest job that some in Serbia seem to have no understanding and no respect. It is good that the city services in Novi Sad have responded in good time, but what we expect as a parliamentary club is that the competent authorities and competent institutions, this is more an appeal than a question to competent authorities and competent institutions, that they too do their part of the job, to find the perpetrators, because this cannot and can not be a norm of social behavior in Serbia today. The next thing is a heist that continues to be led against journalistic professions and against journalists in Serbia by part of the opposition. In fact, we thought that the attempt to edit RTS policy was corrected by a motor saw, that the physical attack on TV journalists "Pink" was an act of shame and shame enough to break up with such a type of campaign and such a kind of policy, and that it was the highlight of political madness by part of the opposition, but representatives of a part of the opposition continue hysteria and hajka on a journalist's profession by sharing journalists with similar and unspeakable ones, as they say, who know they're doing a journalist's profession and those who don't know they're doing a journalist's profession. Instead of having respect for people who carry out their dedicated, serious and responsible work, they attack them at this point in time, when every information for citizens, every timely and real information of great importance and importance, is respected. So who knows which way the representatives of one part of the opposition are trying to deal with the editorial policy of the media. I want to be absolutely clear and precise – we believe that the media must be free, independent and autonomous in decision-making. The topic is and their thesis is completely clear and understandable to us. If present in the media, the media scene is good, if not present in the media, the media scene is bad, but the privatisation strategy was made after 2000 and all media is privatised during the time period. Then the intensity was capitalism. They wanted capitalism, they got capitalism and now the question is -- where does the need to deal with the private sector, when we specifically talk about the media in Serbia? Both private media are monitoring the research, and private media are monitoring the results and how much the political party is worth, and they know well what the news is in Serbia. That they're not news in Serbia, so that's not our problem. The fact that someone has huge support for citizens, and someone has no possibility, actually has no power and the ability to go to the polls and to vote for those famous 3%, so that's not the media problem, is not a problem in the press, the problem is in these political options and their political parties. A concrete question, I do not know who to ask, except the Ministry of Culture and Information, perhaps – how to protect journalists in Serbia so that they can do their job objectively, professionally and professionally? The last question, very briefly – Montenegro's Foreign Ministry on yesterday made it impossible for Serbia's ambassador to place a crown on the monument of the Serbian liberators of Budva on the Day of Truce and Victory in the Great War, explaining that this is the deepest interference in the internal affairs of the sovereign state and the historic counterfeit. So Serbia has never interfered with the internal issue of states in the region, has a clear and principled position, Serbia today is a symbol of new values in the region and wants peace, stability, prosperity, good neighbourly relations. If there are open issues, the issue is resolved through dialogue, never unilateral acts and unilateral moves. Many times Serbia and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic were accused of interfering with the internal issues of Montenegro... (President: George, finish. Here, President, let me ask you a question. (President: the question should have been asked at the beginning. ) But there is a need for an explanation. (President): Come on, quick. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic. ) So many times, the president of Serbia was accused in the previous period of interfering with Montenegro's internal affairs during the elections. Serbia's president did not call for anyone to be voted for in Serbia, but rather for Rama and others. We are interested in the status of Serbs living in Montenegro, which has 29%. We are interested in the status of our assets, the assets of the SPS, which have been exposed to legal terror. The specific question is whether the Serbian foreign ministry has talked to representatives of the Montenegrin foreign ministry and if so, what are the results of the talks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u666	Thank you. Marko Atlagic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u667	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the prosecutor's office – are there any elements of the crime in the daily media attack on the President of the Republic, his family and his associates? Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are witnessing daily continuous, unprecedented, malicious and unworthy media attacks on Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, his family, his associates. These media attacks are a pretext of mob-tacun-political groups, both domestic and foreign. The media attacks on the president are based on lies, bribery, the inventions of the lowest kind. Such abominations must cease immediately because they aim to Satanize, dehumanize, the president and the role of the president. So Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Vice-President of Jeremic's People's Party lied, without shame and shame, that Aleksandar Vukic received gammaglobulin as protection from Kovid-19, and normally, the president denied it. This poor woman lied in this high home of the National Assembly, when she was an MP in 2018, that Aleksandar Vukic would not receive from Putin the award of Alexander Nevski and asked a parliamentary question that day. As you can see, Raskovic lied, and the president received this high Russian medal. Raskovic said and agreed that the criminal action of the Croatian army "Storm 1995" was a humanitarian act. The impertinent woman lied in 2015 on May 4th that Aleksandar Vukic was leading Serbia into the NATO Pact and would introduce her in two years. As you can see, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia lied, and you gentlemen the press kept quiet back then. Insults are lower every day, every moment of the President of the Republic. So Dr Slobodan Parvanov said that Vukic and his associates were idiots, and you gentlemen journalists, you kept silent and adding, quote – within the framework of the pandemic I saw that this country was run by complete idiots, finished quote. He told the president, and I quote -- he's a man of twisted face who shows the absence of reason and adds, who he has in his environment without being a moral nitwit and a total fool, a complete quote. I specifically warn you with the N1-CIA, to listen to these quotes, and the journalists don't say a word, and the NGOs suffer. Today's journalist, Nenad Kulačin, on November 3, 2020, says the president of the monster, quoting, a man with no cheek and shame, has completed a quote. I quote - an example of debauchery and an irrelevant character for history in the period in which he lives, a finished quote. What are you gentlemen doing to the press? Shut up. And you from NGOs? Even opposition politicians, some journalists, dead Amphilochy, used to attack Alexander Vukic. So Sinisa Kovacevic is shameless, says, quoting – Wolf, shame, what are you going to do at Amphilochy's funeral, finished quote. And director Goran Markovic, full of hate that President Vukic, quote – the recipient and that the mob is its natural environment, finished quote. Known for the curse, Aleksandra Vukic, Jovo Bakic says, quote – the armed force is the only way to shift power and shed blood, complete quote and add – I would like to give the state summit in Sava and Danube, finished quote. Where are you gentlemen journalists? You kept your mouth shut. And you from NGOs? A close associate of Boška Obradovica is calling for the rape of Vukic's underage daughter. You shut up with N1 and you gentlemen press. Academic Dusan Teodorovic says, I quote -- the head of the state is a hooligan who is unsupervised. Final quote. This academic used the tragedy of soldiers in Little Zvornik to wish Alexander Vukic dead. Academik Teodorovic attacked Zdravko Colic only because he sang in front of President Aleksandar Vukic at the opening of a private hotel. The same academic attacked Momčel Bajagić Bajag just because, I quote, he sang at Vesic's concerts and took pictures and praised modern barbarians, finished the quote. Academic insults Alexander Vukic and his associates compared to citizens who support Vukic and SNS with the inhabitants of Nazi Germany and Adolf Hitler. What are you doing, gentlemen of the press? Where are you from, uh, NGOs? Who sows hate in this country? Mr. Academyman, the title of academics can't make a man of misery, but a poor man doesn't belong to the title of academics. And Bosko Obradovic asked for a coup and threatened Aleksandra Vukic with a slap. This anger and hatred was poured out in particular on 19.11.2019... .
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u668	Mr. Atlagic, your five minutes are up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u669	Please, just let me finish my sentence. The wolf needs an emergency heart surgery in the U.S. to survive, which is why now he needs to be hit by all weapons, finished quote. Gentlemen, I end up with a sentence, you from the opposition benches, don't sow hate, sow love, work, order and constructive dialogue in this country, just like our president does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u670	Thank you. As no one appears on the basis of Article 287 anymore, we continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – the draft amending and supplementing law of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 Budget Act, with the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Republic Fund for Health Insurance for 2020, the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Agreement on Amendments to the Social Insurance Fund for 2020 and the proposal for a decision to amend the National Employment Service Decision for 2020. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that he has been invited to attend the session of Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance with Associates and Darko Komnenic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Ana Jovic, adviser to the finance minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have received an amendment submitted to the bill by the MPs: Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Nadia Beqiri, Selma Kučević, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. On the 7th amendment with the correction, the MPs together: Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Nadija Beqiri, Selma Kučević, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u671	Thank you, Mr. President. If there is any need, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. I will talk about the part of the amendment relating to the financing of the work of national councils. We are predicting this amendment to give up the reduction of the basic resources for the work of these bodies of minority self-government. Namely, a few days ago, the national council received a memo from the already shut down Office for Human and Minority Rights, noting that the funds for regular work that are scheduled for the 2020 budget will be reduced by 20%. If that's what the government's office has told them about, the question is, who are the national councils going to address now? If they turn to the newly formed ministry, we have seen that this rebalancing of the ministry is exactly the budget on that item reduced by 20% and that ministry, according to established practice, will say – we have no idea, we are just formed. In fact, this rebalancing means that the further funding of national councils of national minorities or national councils is lifted by the end of this year. It is precisely the objective of this amendment that we try to stop or at least slow down the policy you are conducting over the national councils and the persistent attempt to bring the national council down to the level of the association of citizens, and that is the continuation of the policy of this regime and the dealings with the same-minded, especially if they come from minority communities. We have previously warned of these attempts to degrade national councils, to bring themselves down to the associations of citizens, to bring themselves down to NGOs, to eventually come up with their existence, and to reason out their attempts to fight in accordance with the Constitution and the law of this country for the protection, promotion, preservation of the individual and collective rights of citizens of this country. I don't know when you'll become aware of the fact that the national council is now already a constitutional category, that they are guaranteed by the Constitution as a right which has already been achieved and which cannot be reduced. And more importantly, these are the authorities of the minority self-government of the citizens of this country, the bodies that these citizens choose in the direct elections, the same way as the president of the state, the MPs, the committees, etc. They are chosen by citizens who pay taxes and these citizens have the right to exercise their identity rights through the authorities, their authorities, their minority self-government to protect, improve and protect them, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. You have to understand that you don't give your money here to some foreign citizens, some foreigners, but you take the money from us citizens and citizens that we represent. We separate from our taxes for schools, for kindergartens, for hospitals, for roads, we separate for textbooks. But we get it all or we expect it to come from some foreign donation. You are currently managing our taxes, however, which you manage does not mean that it is yours. And it's good to know what you're taking from us. It is good to know that we, as well as the public in Serbia, that the total resources for the work of 22 national councils representing almost one third of the country's citizens before this reduction are 0.002% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So one-fifth of the prominence, one-fifth of a thousandth of the percentage of the Republic of Serbia's budget is set aside to improve, protect and preserve the individual and collective rights of one-third of the country's citizens. And it's shrinking by 20% today. We did not ask for any increase in funds with this amendment. With this amendment, we asked for the realisation and realisation of the funds foreseen in the 2020 budget. These funds are necessary for the implementation of projects already launched by the national council and which national councils need to implement in order to achieve their law and Constitution-guaranteed rights. The question arises, for example, who, in this state of emergency, will pay for the realization of education at the distance of members of the national minorities? That's what national councils have been doing so far. After this rebalancing, the question is which means they'll be able to realise it. Who are we going to ask for the means of realisation, here, let's say this program? Shall we ask Turkey? Well, we don't pay taxes to Turkey, we pay taxes to Serbia. This rebalancing was a chance to correct what was left out of the budget, to correct some injustice or mistake that was made by accident or deliberate. However, after you suspended funding for return programmes and the sustainable survival of exiled Bosniaks from Pryboj in 2014, once there is no room for Bosniaks and Albanians in the first place in police, courts, prosecutors and other state authorities with public powers, the question is how to regain trust in the state and state authorities after such a policy is implemented and demonstrated against members of national minorities. I urge you to reconsider this amendment. It doesn't cost the state much, but it means a lot to members of minority communities. It means their individual and collective rights, identity rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u672	I'd ask the minister to give the word to Shaip Camberi, so he can answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u673	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will look only at the part of the amendment relating to the financing of the Coordination Body. The proposed rebalance reduced the funding of part of the co-ordination body's budget by 50 million, which is precisely the part from which capital projects for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are also financed. You know, these municipalities are the poorest in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and the only funds they have for capital investment are what comes from the Coordination Body. Given the effects of the virus's coronary, the local economy was weak, local self-government's revenues are also weak, projects that have started these municipalities and sent and executed them will be impossible. In the period when the emergency situation was introduced because of the virus's coronary, I think we all agreed to be solid, because we didn't know what the consequences would be in the inflow and local budgets, but also the republican budget. However, when we heard yesterday that the budget was successfully realised that no capital project would be suspended then the question arises – why is it that in the poorest parts of this country, in these poor municipalities it shrinks by 50 million? Fifty million dinars, 20 Preshevo, 20 Bujanovac, 10 million Bears. There are no large funds that would damage the republican budget or even the realisation of that budget. That is why I propose to the Minister and all MPs that our amendment be accepted, because this will also mean that the municipality of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja will be able to implement their commitments to start capital projects this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u674	Thank you. Minister Sinisha Mali has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u675	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, a few things I'd like to look back on in my presentation, and about the amendment that lies before you today. First, there is no kind or kind of discrimination against any minority, according to any citizen of the Republic of Serbia, according to any part of our country. So our country is developing and moving forward. We invest in both road and rail infrastructure and reconstruct both hospitals and schools and health homes and I cannot accept or accept that there is any kind of discrimination or that anyone or anyone is threatened or diminished something that needs to get. What I'm going to remind you on the other hand of all of you, so in March, the pandemic of the Coronal Virus started in February this year. The whole state acted responsibly. We asked everyone in the budget rebalancing not now but in April to cut unnecessary costs, to reduce investments that may not be needed to see how we are going to bring out the entire programme to help our economies and our businesses and citizens of Serbia, and we expected that from all and also from the National Minorities Council. So we all share the same fate and we all live in the same country and we all know what we've been through in the past few months. But if you and the specific answer to your question, we're not against it, I'm not against helping and we're going to help. I'm in touch with Mrs. Comic, Minister Comic, so we expect the Minority Council to give us how much money they need by the end of the year to function. The reason it's not rebalancing is because to this day, that answer is not mine. When I get an answer, and you can freely influence through your contacts how much money they have, they will get as much money as they need to function by the end of the year, and of course the budget for 2021 is a special story. So there's no need to be negative. No one takes anything away from anyone. That's the sort of thing that happened, and on the other hand, let me tell you, let them do their part of the job, let me get some information that I could go out here with, which I could go out with you and say, yes, I'm behind it. So, from this budget where we managed to organize everything in the right way, where all the projects we wanted to put in place were managed, where we provided money for construction and Kovid hospitals and further investment in infrastructure and help our healthcare professionals and the purchase of medicines and medical equipment. So we're going to help that advice...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u676	Minister, I'm sorry. I didn't warn you in time that there was a two-minute limit in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u677	I'm sorry. Here, I'm done. Thank you very much. (Enis Imamovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u678	You have to sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u679	I answered on the basis of a replica. The minister has just said, so we have all plans and all activities foreseen according to the budget. I said in my discussion that we didn't ask for any increase in funds, nor did we ask for any extraordinary funds, we asked that those funds provided for in the budget and that the National Council planned to return to them in the realisation of their activities. That's what we predicted with this amendment. So it's not some big asset, it's the means to function in the next two months. And when you say -- whether someone acted responsible or not, I want to remind you that Bosniak National Council, I know because I was in contact with them, at the time of the biggest crisis that hit Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sandzak, Prijelje, Pryboj, all the Sanjak municipalities, just donated to hospitals and if it wasn't in his area, donated basic resources to hospitals for work. So they acted responsibly, responsibly in their own resources, and as I said, here in this amendment we didn't ask for any additional funds, nothing beyond that, but we were looking for what they enjoyed and the other indirect budget users. So none of them were down 20%. These are the authorities of minority self-government, and if you reduce 20% of the resources to the authorities of minority self-government at such delicate moments, with such serious tasks, which means that they will not have any means of functioning until the end of the year, they will have to depend on your goodwill or on the goodwill of the competent minister. So, what you're suggesting is that we settle the deal, it's regulated by rebalance, it's regulated by law, by rules, not by agreement and goodwill. Don't let us skip institutions, work in accordance with the law and work in accordance with the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u680	The word has a minister, Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u681	Let's just finish this controversy. So when the coronary pandemic of the virus started, I think we all reacted in solidarity, and the whole state donated and gave and kept and cared for each and every one of us. So there's no difference between, I don't know why you're sharing "we are, and you're not" etc. All of us Serbian citizens, that's number one. Number two, I know what you're looking for. I am also telling you to quote what you said: “What other users enjoy, since they are not diminished. ” I tell you now, everyone is reduced. All were reduced because it was the government's responsible policy of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, let me finish and confirm, because I really understand what you're talking about and I want to help you. No negotiations, no talks. What is written in that paper that is related to the needs of the national council will be provided. Unfortunately, that paper didn't arrive at the time of the rebalancing, it didn't reach today. There's no evil intentions, there's nothing. So that paper doesn't exist. When we get it from that institution, we're going to react and there's no reason for any concern, no one has been denied their rights despite the biggest economic crisis in the world, despite the huge problems we've had with the coronary pandemic of the virus. The state of Serbia fulfils its obligations in a dinar and fulfils it on a day-to-day basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u682	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u683	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me just tell you that I have a little bit more time right now. I have 15 minutes as head of the parliamentary group and I have time for a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u684	Okay, I'll keep that in mind. I won't interrupt you for that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u685	So, first of all, I would like to say, given that after the previous session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the amendments submitted by the opposition colleagues, the debate, first and foremost here in parliament and then in the media, is that someone wants to challenge the right of the opposition to submit the amendment, which, of course, is not true. I want to say that it is the legitimate right of every MP, whether it comes from the ranks of the position or the opposition, that he can submit an amendment to the legislative proposal and that we are always for a democratic debate and a democratic conflict of opinion, but that this democratic debate and democratic conflict of opinion is reduced to the power of arguments, not politics, demagogy and force of force, because then it makes sense. Of course, Parliament and the Assembly are the voice of the people and the place where we, legitimately elected representatives of citizens, are discussing alternatives to how to reach the most qualitative legal solutions that will be in the best interest of citizens. Why am I saying this? For one simple reason, because we are talking about amendments and additions to the Budget Law, and it is this reality, they are precisely realising the problem and the government's real answer to the key issues raised at this time as major challenges before Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to a specific amendment, Minister, correct me if I'm wrong, but this amendment has been rejected because it is technically incorrect. Right? So, formally-lawfully this amendment is incorrect and I cannot believe that it can happen to someone who has a longer parliamentary standing and who knows the procedure and the Rules of Procedure on Work and the way the amendment can be proposed, to sign an amendment that is technically incorrect. Now, if he doesn't know that, actually, if he does, and I suppose he does, I don't want to believe that he had any other intentions, yes, let's say he starts a question, to get some space in the media, in front of the media auditorium, which is still not controversial to raise some issues that they think are important, questions that my colleague is talking about, I don't think they're irrelevant, but there's a time when we're going to talk about it. So, the minister said, that's the 2021 budget, but to talk about it, first of all, Ministers, as you said, as far as I understand it, we need to get an answer to the key question, which is that national minority advice delivers an answer to the question of how much money is needed to function. In doing so, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you are, I must make a move, you have introduced into parliament something that is a very good practice and is a major qualitative shift and a step forward leading to the democratic and efficiency of Parliament's work, which is a session of the College, which is regular, which is held every Tuesday, whether parliament is in session or not. The College is a body attended by both Parliament President and Vice-President of Parliament, Secretary-General, Presidents and Vice-Presidents of Parliamentary Groups and Colleges, we agree on the dynamics of work, we agree on how parliament will function, we look at the suggestions and suggestions we receive from parliamentary groups, from the heads of parliament groups, and we always go towards finding a certain consensus and compromise solution. Why am I saying this? At the last session of the College, we defined the dynamics of Parliament's work. Mr. Martinovic, you were at the College session, we defined the dynamics of Parliament's work. The parliamentary group that submitted this amendment, I do not know for what reasons, whether it did not want or could not, but most correctly towards us who are participating in the work, did not take part in the session of the College, submitted an amendment that is technically incorrect. Why am I saying this? So we've established dynamics. If we hadn't changed that dynamic in our walk, we would be sitting here today in parliament because of an amendment that is formally incorrect, technically incorrect, the government has given reason that we would only come because of this one amendment, and I want to remind you that one day in Parliament, the Republic of Serbia costs two million dinars. So, because of one day, they would spend two million dinars, and that's when we look at every dinar, the government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, and the president of Serbia, the state leadership, every dinar, to point to what's most important right now, and that's the fight against the crown of the virus. Fortunately, you've walked, Mr. President, changed the dynamics, so today, after the debate in particular, we'll have a session that's scheduled for something later. I do not think that the proposals have properly seen the intensity and have not properly seen the priorities that are intended to be achieved by amending and supplementing the 2020 Budget Law. Priority number one is certainly a battle against the crown virus and this is today a national state issue. You said, Minister, in response and in the discussion that it stands out for the new Kovid hospitals, for the restoration of the old Kovid infirmarys, for new hospitals in Belgrade and in Kruševec, you said it stands out for sanitary material and equipment, greater payments for the Health Insurance Fund. You said that as a form of respect for healthcare workers, who today are Serbian heroes, they will receive 120,000 dinars of one-time aid of 10,000 dinars and that on January 1, 2021, they will be the priority when we discuss wage increases and that is certainly Serbia's priority today. So, to preserve the health of Serbian citizens, when I say Serbian citizens, of course, I also think of national minorities because they live in the Republic of Serbia. Where are representatives of national minorities being treated? In the same hospitals as the citizens of Serbia. Look at how much we pay, each of us, health insurance, and how much it costs to treat the world, how much it costs for the best medications, for doctors, for respirators, food, everything else, it costs the state budget, but our goal is to make sure that the equipment is the best quality, and that the clinical centres are even better. And that is the priority task of amending and supplementing the 2020 Budget Law. There's no room for any division. I do not diminish or minimize the importance and importance of the topics that colleagues are talking about, but at this point there is no room for such a kind of division, nor has anyone been discriminated against. If we're talking about health care, I think there's a doctor here who works in clinical centres. There's a colleague, Vlad Tasic. I don't know who else works at the clinic. I, for example, have one question – did the Clinical Centre of Belgrade sign an agreement, for example. with a hospital in Novi Pazar and do doctors and healthcare professionals from the Clinical Centre of Belgrade go to Novi Pazar? Do they treat only Serbs or other representatives of national minorities there? Well, of course they treat all the citizens. Does that cost the citizens, does that cost Serbia? Of course it must be paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is just to point out priority number one and question number one when it comes to amending and supplementing the Budget Law and that through this issue absolutely no one is discriminated against in Serbia. Priority number two, directed towards the most sensitive categories at the moment. There, above all, I think -- to preserve the level of employment in Serbia, to ensure the existence and living standards of citizens and the economy of Serbia, the private sector as the future, and there are also representatives of national minorities in the private sector and in the economy. Don't tell me that only Serbs are representatives of these sectors and that they run private sectors, in fact, that they have private businesses in Serbia. Capital investments, of course, have shown in a realistic way how much it is necessary to allocate it for capital investments, because without capital and public investments, without infrastructure projects, there is no economic development. And if we have economic development, growth and development, it will not only affect Serbs, but all those living in the Republic of Serbia. They're going to repeat something we talked about during the debate in principle. The whole world is facing the biggest health challenge right now. I really don't notice in any country in the world that any political option, which comes from the ranks of the opposition, is competing with its government or the president of the state. There is no time, no place, no space, and there is no chance of any political monologues, because everyone realizes that we have one common goal and that we have only one common task and that is why it is important, again I say, not to diminish the importance and importance of the topic that colleagues have talked about and I believe that when they deliver the programmes, we will discuss it through the 2021 budget, but let us put the policyisation of the topic that we are talking about today where it belongs, in quarantine. There will be time and space to conduct political dialogues and that every political option, each parliamentary group shows what it is worth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u686	Let me just ask, on what grounds? (Enis Imamovic: Replica. Like a replica on behalf of a group, I presume? (Enis Imamovic: at the exhibition. ) Since you are not an authorised representative, Selma is the authorised representative, so you cannot contact while Selma is in the O.R. After Selma Shaip Camberi, then you. Don't let us play here now, take out the cards. Therefore, if anyone wants to report for the replica you have Selma, you have Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u687	I don't know if it's been a practice in this House so far for only one amendment to be rebalanced and there's no solidarity with it. I asked a question that I didn't get an answer from the finance minister about the return of the co-ordination body, nor did I politicize, nor did I say it would go to this community or that community. If I need legal advice, I believe this assembly has legal teams that I can ask for. There's no need for someone to give lectures here at the session. I am waiting for a concrete answer - is there any possibility that 50 million for capital projects can be returned to the co-ordination body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja? I'm saying this for a reason because we were solid at the time of the pandemic. Bujanovac municipality has donated more than 10 million of its funds or donations to the House of Health in Bujanovac, but has suspended capital projects. If we heard the story the day before yesterday that financial Serbia is better than many countries, not only in the environment, but also in Europe, then I see no reason to go right where the funding is being abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u688	Thank you. I'd just like to ask you not to abuse what I want to give you all my word. You're the one who picked up the line. The replica refers to the previous speaker, which is Djordje Milicevic. You didn't even mention him, not just him, but nothing he said, but you talked about your subject. It's all right. You have as much time as you want, report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and act as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. If Mr. Imamovic shows up by the Rules of Procedure, I'll have to delete the list, so re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u689	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Article 104. "If, in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly, the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group is offended by his statement, stating his name, last name, function, or misread his presentation, the MP shall have the right to reply." So we here in response to my exposure and reaction to our amendment could hear various insults. That it was politics, the charge of demagogy, and that we were to blame for having filed one, turned out to be the only amendment and because the Assembly had to work one whole day for that amendment. I'm sorry, gentlemen, it's not my fault that only one amendment has been submitted to this bill, the Budget Law, one of the most important laws in one country. This may have something to do with the state of democracy in the country, not with members of minority parliamentary clubs. We've heard here that we're being challenged by the right to submit an amendment. Please, some have dared to write an amendment to the budget under which they predict that the budget is financed by their current affairs, their fundamental constitutional and legal rights, the identity rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Please, we dared to submit the amendment and we are charged with it. During this address, you could hear a lot of things and talk about health care. If we're talking about health care, colleagues, if we're talking about health care, look at the state of hospitals in Novi Pazar, Tutin, Prepolje, etc., etc. And why doctors from Belgrade have to come to Novi Pazar, so we have a doctor, too, we have an expert. We didn't ask for doctors from Belgrade, we asked for conditions for our doctors in Pazar to do so on their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u690	So I don't break the Rules of Procedure, you're out of time. Since you've advertised a member of the Rules of Procedure about the replica, I've just explained it to you and I'll explain it to you again. In accordance with Article 39. The Rules of Procedure of the Group of MPs may authorise one member to represent a parliamentary group for a certain item of the agenda and which assumes the authority of the president of the parliamentary group. So, you could have reported for the replica as a National MP, and on behalf of the MP group, you couldn't. So, if you're satisfied with this explanation, please, and if you don't state whether you want to make it clear to the Assembly in the voting day. Enis Imamovic: Yes. Thank you. On what basis are you answering, Mr. Samir? Are you looking for a replica? (Samir Tandir: Djordje Milicevic mentioned Bosniaks. ) Mr. Milicevic is raising the Rules of Procedure, so I assume it's according to the Rules of Procedure. The word then has Milicevic, but I have to delete the list, so Mr. Milicevic can re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u691	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 27. - The president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure and I want to point out, you explained why you did not give the right to reply, I fully support it. I'm not asking the People's Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I have to point to the following. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is not disputed, each of us may request a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but the moment the breach of the Rules of Procedure was committed. It certainly can't be after you expose your colleague Camberi, because if you do so after you expose your colleague Camberi, then it turns out, Mr. President, that you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you gave a word to the MP Shaip Camberi, which is the procedural thing. The second topic is that a colleague took advantage of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so he replicated through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course he had no basis for replication and of course all that was said through the breach of the Rules of Procedure was not true. I didn't say that anyone in this assembly disputed the right and didn't allow anyone to submit the amendment. On the contrary, I said that it is legitimate for every MP to submit an amendment. I didn't say -- we have to sit for one amendment, no, but you didn't come to an agreement, at the College, when we talked about Parliament dynamics, so we walked, because of your lack of experience, had to change that dynamic, and made a parallel, which would mean we didn't do it. I didn't mention you, and you're not even my basis for replication. I was speaking in general about the amendment and I was talking about the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and my colleague was talking about discrimination, my colleague was talking about dealing with representatives of national communities...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u692	George, since the time is up...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u693	That's not my word, but I realize that there's a need...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u694	Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u695	I said, "Article 27." But I do realize he has a need to make another sacrifice of himself. I'm not asking the National Assembly in voting day to plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u696	You're not looking. Thank you. Speaking of amendments, no one thinks, and I don't think there's any dilemma, the right to submit an amendment is one of the fundamental rights that every MP has. Therefore, absolutely, no one is questioning anyone, nor should he, nor can he dispute the right to submit amendments. When it comes to further requests for discussion, as far as I understand the cause of the replica, you answered, but you didn't sign up here with us. Mr. Tandir, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u697	Dear President of the Assembly, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, we are all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and if I feel bad as a Bosniak, I don't think any other citizen of Serbian, Hungarian, Albanian or Roma nationality can be well and fully agree with all those who have said that when we talk about this issue, there is no need for us to share. We are all here to make Serbia the best place to live and nothing is so good that it could not be better. As for the reasons of the Finance Minister, I am pleased and it is quite clear that the moment the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights works and the dialogue that things that concern the greater will be returned. What I want to point out because of the truth is that in the past term, in the talks of our party's academic leader Muamer Zukorlic with the highest representatives of the Republic of Serbia, there have been some injustices against the Bosniak people and when it comes to Islamic religion and when it comes to the return of vacuum property to the Islamic community, and when we talk about the facts, we have to point out that the situation of the Bosniak people and other minority communities is much better than during Tadic's rule, Kostunica and some previous governments that have done really great injustices towards my people. What I would like to mention to the Minister and what I pointed out the other day in the debate is to take care of the spending of national council funds. So here we have some indication that there are certain abuses. I can tell you on my case that the moment I was the opposition councilman in the Bosniak National Council, the funds that belong to me were not paid, and now we're in court. I'm looking for some procedure and a dozen other councilmen to get those rights that belong to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u698	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. I would only ask once again that when you appear on different grounds that you still satisfy that form to say which member of the Rules of Procedure you advertise and when it comes to the replica to whom you are in fact replicating, because you have the right to replication right after the discussion that caused that replica. So I don't really want to challenge law. I think every once in a while and we're tolerance enough. I'm just asking you to respect that form so we know what we're talking about. If we got out of this circle of replicas and a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'd move on. National MP Ivana Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u699	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, I am reporting under the amendment to the Law on the Budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and at first I would like to congratulate the Government, and in particular Minister Sinishi Malo, who has managed to maintain the economic stability of our country during this crisis period. The amendment you have made certainly refers to this particular rebalancing which is the subject of our present day. The rebalance continues on the one invested in April of this year and invested precisely in order to respond quickly and efficiently to the emerging situation, the situation of coronary virus problems. This problem certainly caused some economic problems in our country, that some of the funds had to be rerouted just to enable those vital problems and vital items to settle. So I believe that in the previous amendment you saw that certain, to say, injuries, I wouldn't want to go into that minority right now and these replicas that were being conducted, I'd just like to look back on that budget law and say that we have to focus on its deficit. The deficit of 8.75% certainly is due to the very settlement of all the problems that have arisen in our society, thereby all the problems of us citizens and minorities and all the other people in our country. First of all, there is certainly a health system. Our health care system has asked for help in the construction of new hospitals, in the form of drug procurement, medical equipment, but we needed as a society to show respect and gratitude to our medical workers right through help, through salary increases and through a single amount of 10,000 dinars to be allocated to them. In second place, it is certainly the preservation of our economy. Our economy can be preserved right through those capital investments that you mentioned were lagging behind, but these capital investments are necessary for our country's economy to continue. What is very important to me to stress is that these capital investments represent a catalyst for further private investment, but also foreign direct investment. The country's overall support for creating conditions for the arrival of these foreign investments was 9.8 billion dinars. The additional 500 million, which is predetermined in this rebalancing precisely for this purpose, shows how much Serbia is a responsible and reliable partner and how much we have succeeded financially in these times of crisis, responsible we are to move forward in the emerging situation. It was with these investments that new factories were opened, with these new factories new jobs and we managed to preserve that unemployment rate. Not to preserve it, but to achieve a truly historic record, low unemployment rate of 7.3% this year. Minister Sinisha Mali said very nicely last time at the last session that in 2012, the amount, i.e. the unemployment rate, was 25.9%. This is a good result that we have just achieved because of one responsible economy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is precisely this rebalancing and confirming. Also, I must point out that I, as a small entrepreneur, had huge assistance and support from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the private sector. One, there are certainly three minimum earnings that have been received, to mention, more than a million citizens of the Republic of Serbia, millions of employees of people in our country. I believe there are members and minorities there and there are also members of the territory mentioned in the amendment. The situation didn't stop there, the state continued to help, because the crisis continued. We have direct assistance to micro-small and medium-sized enterprises that amounted to 60% of the minimum earnings in August and September. Just by carefully observing this rebalancing I have realized that our country and our government have managed to maintain policy so that economic activity survives, so that unemployment decreases, to preserve production capacity, and also to maintain the standard of our citizens' lives. All this has been done, as the minister said, without stopping and with one investment, roads are being built, hospitals are being built and it is being helped on the territory of the entire country by every segment and sector that is vital at the moment. It is because of this responsible policy that we are currently in the position of economic leaders in Europe. We were able to keep our public debt below 60% exactly by the Mastricht criterion and we were able to find ourselves at present in a position that we still have some resources that we can afford, we have some resources that MPs here can fight for. Certainly, I would also like to point out that Minister Nedimovic announced in the previous period that Serbia, or our country's agriculture, has at the moment seen a huge increase of over 5%. I'm very glad that this particular field of ours has once again shown that it has maintained us and fed us in these times of crisis. Also, I am pleased that another 5.1 billion dinars are being allocated in this rebalancing facility for subsidies in agriculture, but also that a package will also help young farmers to be allocated up to a million and 500 000 dinars of grants. I would like to appeal once again to the amendment that you have made and to say that I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has really done the lion's work that our country has, and thank God for this very responsible economic policy, that we have had enough resources to deploy them where we need them. We have also shown this responsibility this time and this rebalancing, by another rebalancing in this year, we have shown that all those funds and all those projects that were previously properly presented to our government, in this sense, as the minister said, certain information from your neighborhood, from these minority, to say, parts of the minority, did not arrive in a timely manner and were not adequately presented to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore they were not able to be predetermined in time. Once again, I thank Minister Nedimovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for taking us through this crisis and calling on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this bill and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u700	Thank you. With no more discussions reported, Minister Sinisa Mali reported at the end of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u701	Thank you very much. Dear Members, first of all, I would like to thank you all for a very constructive dialogue, arguments, suggestions, remarks, criticisms and praises, which we have heard of the proposed budget rebalance. Our country's been fighting on two fronts for the ninth month, we're all fighting together, every citizen of this country fights. We are fighting to save people's lives, we are fighting for the health of Serbian citizens, and on the other hand we are fighting for the maintenance and rescue of our economy. This particular budget rebalance should contribute to both. When it comes to the economy, only one piece of information we've been talking about in the past few days, so our country will have the slightest decline, or the biggest GDP growth this year in Europe. What encourages both the European Commission and the IMF, we will be number one cumulatively for 2020, 2021 and 2022. It's a big commitment for all of us. On Thursday, five, in the next ten days, the government will adopt a budget for 2021, you will have two weeks to look at it, and we will see you and see you in that budget, as we said today and a few days ago, we also have an increase in public sector wages, and we will have a raise in minimum earnings calculated, and we will have an increase in pensions. One of you said-- pensions don't just grow, they're absolutely safe. It's absolutely like that. So pensions are safe, all the giving and all the obligations that the state has made on itself, it's also managed to pay off on time, in the day, in the dinar. We saved our economy, so with two aid packages you don't have those black scenarios as you have the opportunity to see in other countries. So, you don't have mass layoffs, you don't have factory closures, you don't have random drive closures. So we're well-positioned, and for the next year, the growth rate, which is our goal is 6%, so very high set target, but I'm sure with the budget that we're going to talk about and we're going to succeed. On the other hand, with this budget rebalancing, you are voting to complete the construction of both covids of the hospital, to continue the reconstruction and investment in our country's health system, in the purchase of equipment, in the purchase of medicines. I think this year that's the hardest, the biggest challenge for all the countries in the world, we've shown in the right way how unique we are, how solid we are, and how much when we work together there are no obstacles. In the end, I want to thank you and all those MPs who first had a chance to turn around two days ago, young man. You have every honor, very argumentative, concisely, in the right way defined, your suggestions will be considered, but I want to congratulate you on your courage, on your knowledge, on your courage and on your success in your further career. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-0.u702	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hope that you will have in mind this constructive work of the National Assembly when you establish the draft budget for next year and that you will respect all the views of the Administrative Committee concerning the needs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, since these days it was one topic. Let me just use my time in one sentence and say that the Satanization of the National Assembly and the MPs has been going on since I was in the National Assembly since 1992, and this is mostly about the fact that MPs don't do anything, that they drink at affordable prices, that they use restaurants and everything else. Since these topics are always succesively appearing and everything else, I have asked and received information, and I think we should take this subject off the agenda, so that no one will ever ask us on the subject again. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor any national MP has anything to do with restaurants, nor with the prices that are being determined, but what I ask of you ministers, to transfer to the competent administrations within the Government of the Republic of Serbia to deal with these matters and to answer the questions for which they are responsible, not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to remove the subject more from the agenda, because prices in these restaurants do not determine either of these MPs, nor I as president, but are determined by the Office for Joint Affairs in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am saying this because of the reputation and dignity of each of the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry I got out of the box a little bit, but since this is a subject, because the Joint Affairs Administration is also in budget rebalancing, it's important that we all know that. I've never heard a single statement in 28 years, or a statement from the Administration that's in charge of restaurants. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So we take that question off the agenda, we absolutely don't have any further discussions on this subject. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Thursday, November 12th, 2020, starting at 11.35 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since we are handling an hour here in the O.R., which is identical throughout the National Assembly, before we move to a decision on the agenda point, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), Rules of Procedure, there is a quorum for work if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask Members to insert their card identifications into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 199 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Before we move to a decision on the bill, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2.8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I remind you once again, time is scheduled for a vote of 15 seconds. I'm stopping the vote. 204 MPs voted in favour of -199, v - four, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Nadija Beqiri, Selma Kučević, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardjan Bajrami. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, does not comply with the Budgetary System Act. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. 206 people's messengers voted against, five against, one against, 200 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of the 13th. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 208 MPs voted, five MPs did not vote for – 203. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm closing the vote. The total vote was 211, for – 207, against – four. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the draft amending and supplementing law on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. We now move to a decision on the proposals for decisions to give consent to the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations for 2020. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 210 voted for – 207, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2020, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 211 votes for – 208, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Treaty on the Amendments and Supplements of the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2020, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 211 votes for – 208, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2020, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 211 votes for – 208, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to postpone, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Shaip Kamberi, at a session on 10 November 2020 at 11pm and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I am stopping the vote: a total of 211, for – four, 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Enis Imamovic, at a meeting on 12 November 2020 at 11 o'clock in 3 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: a total of 211, for – four, 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the agenda of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Thank you. I announce in 15 minutes a new session.
