ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for breach of article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because neither the National Assembly in general nor our president in particular, must show impotence, must grieve over any situation we are in. We do not need to call on any foreign forces, or the EU to assess the situation in our country. Even in times of emergency there was no such attack on the Assembly and the MPs and then the key question here – what is the executive authority doing? We must put executive power on the line, rescinding the Minister of the Interior because today did not ensure that all MPs entered the building of the National Assembly uninterrupted. I went into my soul quite unhindered because I offered to fight them all right away and they didn't want me to. But beating MP Marijan Risticevic was not an incident that allowed him to cross, no matter what party he was from, no matter why they had animosity to him. He should not be beaten in front of the National Assembly today, and if he is beaten who is most responsible, the interior minister. So let's replace the minister of police and elect a new minister and first of all ask him to clear the entrance to the National Assembly. That the legislative authority can do its job uninterruptedly. We are not interested in political or political reasons why it does not react in other and similar situations, if the President of the Republic can suffer and block his entire building, the Presidency Palace, let him continue to do so, but the National Assembly is not obliged to suffer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73952	Thank you. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure and that this is practically not about me. (Vojislav Seselj: It's not you. You were excited about the situation, I don't justify it, but I had to make remarks. Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vojislav Seselj: No. Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73953	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 92, which guarantees to Members of Parliament the right to submit an additional agenda, the right that was denied to the MPs yesterday was enough. In person yesterday, with our suggestions, the addition of the agenda was at the office of the Assembly about 10.00 hours ago, I tried to endure those additions and the head of the office refused to do so, with an explanation that the session had not yet been scheduled, then he left the office just before 10.00 hours ago, went to the office of Maja Gojkovic, returned after 10.00, scheduled a session at 10.00 hours. I was in the office the whole time, when I asked for our additions to the agenda as if they were handed over at the same time, because we were in the office all the time, he refused to do it. Dear gentlemen, this has been committed to a crime, the motive is quite clear, that the MPs have been prevented from speaking in the Assembly. We'll file criminal charges. And it is clear that this crime was committed in writing with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What we require is for this to be corrected by supplementing our agenda that we have handed over in the office on time to the agenda of this congregation. And that if you don't accept that our additions to the agenda that we've given in good time don't be included, I want to vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73954	Thank you. We'll put it to a vote. We can move on to the agenda. Do any of the ministers want a word? The word is Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73955	Thank you. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to a very brief explanation of the proposed amendments and additions, I would just like to join in condemning what happened at the entrance to the House of the People's Assembly. I believe that in a democratic society, as Serbia certainly is, it is not allowed to suspend anyone's right to work in such a way. You've all come here today for your work duties. After all, we all came here because of our obligation to those who chose us, and these are the bearers of the country's sovereignty, therefore, citizens and citizens, and I think that the vast majority of Serbian citizens condemn one such manner and attack on the MP. It is important that we know that in Serbia there is no fertile ground for fascism. In Serbia, there is a free spirit, patriotism, antifascism, and I think that the symbolism of today's violence is one lesson that we can learn without tomorrow. Given that tomorrow is the day of victory over fascism, let us follow it, and in some elections we shall accompany the history of those who promote such anti-civilization values. As regards the amendment and addition of the Law on the Selection of National MPs and the Law on Local Elections, it is, therefore, the Law on the Selection of National MPs on Articles 43 and 44, in the Law on Local Elections on Article 23. As you know, both these two amendments and additions, as well as the amendment and additions that my colleague Health Minister Zlatibor Lončar will present, are overly related to public health, to the health of the nation and to the preservation of that health after, of course, everything that was present in the previous period, and we all know that the state of emergency was introduced on 15 March, practically due to the fight against the Kovid-19 virus. What the public knows, while the state of emergency was lifted the other day in this house, there are still recommendations and it is recommended that some of the rules of conduct apply, above all, to the need for physical distance between people who certainly aim to protect our citizens and the population from the infectious disease Kovid-19. Such conditions recommending compliance with such rules of conduct make it significantly difficult to collect and verify voter signatures and in scope, but also within the deadlines prescribed by the Law on the selection of MPs or the Law on Local Elections. When we talk about scope, we all know that 10,000 signatures are required in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. As far as the deadlines are concerned, the deadlines are identical for either level of choice. So, the final deadline for handing over the list is 15 days before the election. With everything exposed in mind, there is a need to enable, in addition to public notebooks, voters who are supported by a certain electoral list, whether in local, regional or parliamentary elections, to be certified by municipal, or city administrations. This was the case by 1 March 2017, so that both city and municipal administrations are ready to take over this obligation and proposed legal solutions and these changes allow municipal, or city administrations to verify the signatures of voters who support the electoral list in all cities and municipalities. So, both in those where public notebooks are named, and where there are no public notebooks. As for basic courts, primary courts, judicial units and reception offices of the primary courts, they can still verify the signatures of voters who support the electoral list, but only in those cities and municipalities where there are no public records. Therefore, the intensity was that the increase in the number of authorised certification authorities had practically warned the risk of greater gathering of actors in all election activities, not to be too many persons in the rooms and outside the premises of the competent authorities, which would certainly not be desirable under these circumstances, given all the recommendations that both the Central Health Staff and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, practically broadcast daily, so it is certainly necessary to bear in mind that the health of the nation in the first place, that we must continue to take measures against the spread of this monster. We learned how to master this virus, Kovid-19. He showed the health system and all health workers how much courage and responsibility the government of the Republic of Serbia and all health care has shown a high level of adaptability to the emerging circumstances and can be freely said that we have mastered that equation to overcome the virus. Now it's important that we all be very responsible as citizens of this country, to learn to live with what's left of it all, but yes, of course, we're slowly going back to normal and that economic and all other activities exist. What is also the second level of the cause of such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Elections and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs is certainly a political agreement that was held under the chairmanship of the President of the Republic of Mr. Vukic with all representatives of those lists interested in participating in the elections to be held on 21 June. I think it's just another step or step forward in creating and facilitating electoral conditions for all those who want to participate in these electoral activities after the introduction of the state of emergency, when virtually all the electoral actions were frozen. If these changes and adoptions are made in this home, with the previous legal solution that you adopted in this home before the emergency is lifted, we expect that since Monday and RIK and all the relevant election commissions will declare the continuation of the electoral actions along with this extenuating circumstance. I am sure that some representatives of those political organisations and parties who before the introduction of the emergency state will collect signatures in a way that was certainly legal, but in the notaries, they will talk about now being placed in an unequal position, but we must not interfere with the idea that in the meantime we have had one truly extraordinary circumstance, an imposed state of emergency and a very committed struggle against this virus. In the introduction, that's all. I thank you for your attention. I'll be ready to answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73956	Thank you. Are any of the ministers answering for a word? The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73957	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have come here today to tell you what stage we are in battle with Coronavirus, to say what we have done so far, to say what we have yet to do, so that we do not ruin everything that has been done with enormous effort and enormous work so far, thinking that this is important to everyone, because it is a global problem, a problem that is the first news in the whole world. They say that such a problem has not been since World War II, which has affected everything, literally all areas and all that is related to people's lives. But I was wrong, I was seriously wrong, because I saw that there were people who didn't care. There are people who don't care about the health of our citizens, there are people who don't care about our citizens' lives. Coming to my work obligation, which was here today in the Assembly to tell you what is going to happen, what are we going to change, on the way to this Assembly, which is supposed to be a symbol of freedom, democracy and all that the modern world means, I came across something I couldn't honestly imagine, which I was just looking at in movies, but in the old movies of Nazi Germany and Ustasha Croatia. I came across people who claim to come to power and who claim to represent Serbian citizens and lead this Serbia. Every word for what they've done and what I suppose they're still doing is too high, enough to see it. I sincerely hope that the citizens of Serbia, not only Serbia, could see who these people who want to come to Serbia are in power and imagine what would happen, what they can expect if they came to power, when they behave like this today, how they behave, how they block roads, how they harass people, how they insult people, how they can beat people. These are the people who want to come to power. Honestly, it's hard to find scenes like this in the movies and see them. Therefore, everyone needs to think carefully about what happened today and what was seen. What I want to tell the citizens of Serbia, dear Serbian citizens, we will do everything we can to make sure that this doesn't happen to any of you, what happened today, or the MP, and to me and anyone else who wanted to come to work. Rest assured and be assured that we will handle it, that we will resolve it for you and for our obligation to you, because you voted for us, you chose us, and you gave us the mandate not to do this. So we're going to win this because we have no other choice, because we have your support. Thank you for your support so far, and I'm sorry you had to watch this and have to take it. Now I'll tell you why I'm here. It's about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases. The reasons for the adoption of this law stems from the need to overcome problems in the practice of applying regulations, decisions or orders by competent authorities in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, which determine measures to protect the population from infectious diseases when those measures are not respected in practice. The law stipulates that health institutions, private practice, legal persons, entrepreneurs, health workers and citizens are obliged to implement the measures prescribed by these laws and to act on the solution of a sanitary inspector to protect the population from infectious diseases within time limits, under conditions and in a manner determined by that solution, and that appropriate criminal sanctions are provided for. However, there is no criminal sanctions for non-compliance with decisions and orders from other competent authorities which also determine measures to protect the population from infectious diseases. In addition, it was necessary to raise the legal minimum when it comes to fines for these offences, given the practice of criminal courts that point to the tendency of courts to very often impose fines on the legal minimum. Articles 1 and 2. Proposals for a law are prescribed for criminal sanctions for the non-compliance of legal and natural persons by regulations, decisions or orders by the competent authorities in accordance with this law, which determine measures to protect the population from infectious diseases. In addition, the minimum amount of fines for violations of the rules that set out measures for the protection of the population from infectious diseases from 30 to 50,000 dinars is increased. Article 3 requires that this law enters into force on the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, not on the eighth day of its publication, given the irreparable damage that could occur on the day of its publication for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. by the health and life of a large number of citizens, by the health system and consequently by its economy. As the pandemic of communicable diseases, Kovid-19, continues to last, and many of the measures that were in place at the time of emergency, need to be strictly respected in order not to have a new wave of spread of this disease, but also other infections. This is another reason why this law needs to enter into force immediately, that is, on the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention. We'll go further on all this stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73958	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73959	Thank you. I've called about a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As we speak now, Bosko Obradovic and several of his supporters continue to rage in the halls of the National Assembly. It was not enough for them to attack Marijan Risticevic physically at the entrance to the National Assembly today. And, here, let Serbian citizens see what democracy looks like directed by Dragan Gilas and Bosko Obradovic. They literally ripped the man into pieces of a jacket. This is how they would tear up Serbia if they came to power. Here, look, there's nothing left of the jacket. They physically attacked a man, threw him on the ground, kicked him in the feet, and at the last minute they reacted to MP Marko Atlagic and security of the National Assembly, otherwise the question is what would happen to Marijan Ristic's life. On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I expect all the MPs and all the citizens of Serbia to condemn the fascist savagery of Bosko Obradovic and, of course, his boss Dragan Djilas. Something like this has never happened in Serbia. This has not happened anywhere in Europe, except in Hitler's Germany and Pavelic's NDH. Such brutal attacks, physical attacks on people just because they're their political insolents, it's pure fascism. We will continue as a parliamentary group, as a party, to fight for the strong, for democratic, for developed Serbia, and never again to allow such things to be done by MPs, who tear up jackets, who would want to kill a man just because he doesn't think the same as he, ever come to power again. I'm not asking to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I am seeking and calling on the citizens of Serbia, I call on all well-intentioned people to condemn such an act, because this has nothing to do with politics. This has nothing to do with the conduct of any party policy. There's no program here. In Serbia, unfortunately, in action, by Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradovica, a purely naked fascism of Hitler's and Ustasha type was hit.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73960	Thank you. Vladimir Marinkovic, on what grounds? Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73961	Thank you, esteemed president, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can only imagine what would have happened to our colleague Marijana Risticevic that he was somewhere where he was nowhere near the police and his colleagues to come to help and literally rescue him from the lynch. His sin is probably the same as the sin of all of us sitting here in the hall, which is to do our jobs and to work together for Serbia's sake. My colleague Aleksandar Martinovic elaborated nicely, invited all and members of the SNS, as well as all Serbian citizens, all patriots, all who think well of this country to condemn this disgusting, monstrous act, because in the 21st century, this kind of monstrous, fascist attack on someone just because they're doing their job and coming to the threshold of their home and their workplace is totally unacceptable. I expect those people who are in charge, who represent the authorities to react urgently on this basis. What I also want to say to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that this is not an accident, that this is inspired, that this is not Fascist Bosko Obradovic, Ljoticvac Bosko Obradovic and his six, seven satraps or followers who have waited and masculinely attacked Marijan Risticevic. This is an action that has lasted several years, inspired, aided by the media. I'll just show you the cartoons that showed up on the so-called team. Free media. Look, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, was drawn in this so-called "Second Vucic". The free media with the hooky cross on their left shoulder and David's star. They sent this to me, and before it came out, friends and colleagues from Israel, from the Jewish community that pointed to the phenomenon of fascism in the Republic of Serbia, which they promote, so-called. Free media and politicians who are inspired and supported by their actions. Look at the other cartoon. Alexander Vukic in a black Jewish suit with his ministers and associates. There's a lot of money under the legs with David's star on the lapel. I'm just going to remind our citizens and our colleagues of the danger of all of this, which is that last year there was a cover with the entry into Auschwitz on the front page, which compares the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and our government with the Auschwitz camp, one of the most embarrassing and saddest parts in human history, in the history of humanity. So all of this is inspired, all of this is coordinated. I call on all my fellow MPs, whether they belong to the ruling majority or to the opposition, to strongly condemn this, to fight this out loud. I call on the state authorities to respond on this matter, to respond in accordance with Articles 21 and 49. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is that no one, absolutely no one in this country can be discriminated against on the basis of their political beliefs, based on their own religion, based on their race. These people, these monsters are driving Serbia into something, something, very, very bad. Serbia has never been a fascist country. We will defeat this evil in the June 21st election. Most Serbia is for development, for jobs, for progress. But we can't allow this anymore, this can't be a picture that will leave Serbia. Serbia was not fascist even when fascist parties existed openly in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. They were then in the elections, right, Professor Seselj, 1% or less than 1% of Ljotic's ZBOR won those elections in 1935. Let's send a message, let's be in this together, let's drive that scum to the dump of history, and fascists who are just destroying the reputation and everything that President Vukic and all of us here want to do, which is that we are doing in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let's not let someone just because of their opinion, because of their belief, because of their politics should suffer and suffer in a modern and democratic country in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73962	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger George Komlenski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73963	Thank you, Chairman. Maintaining order in the congregation involves maintenance and order and the possibility of entering the congregation. Of course, I don't think you're responsible for what happened, but I think it's absolutely appropriate that as president of the assembly, since obviously the appeals of the MPs of all these four years have not helped us, you should turn directly to the Republic Prosecutor's Office and ask them to start doing their job once. This horde, which was in front of the Assembly, including MP Bosko Obradovic as a ringleader, absolutely met all the legal requirements that the moment Mr. Marjan Risticevic was attacked and arrested. Will the prosecution do their job, or will we really have to consider in the shortest possible time why they behave like that, why not do their job and why they let Fascism in Serbia go mad? Serbia is not the ground for fascist ideas, but probably for those who have Latvian-fascist ideas in their brains, they start to go crazy, it seems to come at the time of May 9th, they know they have nothing to look for on the political scene, that they have nothing to look for in the elections. What we are looking for is that the republican authorities, primarily the prosecution, are doing their job, protecting Serbian citizens, protecting MPs, protecting the right to a normal life in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73964	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73965	I thank you, President. Unlike my colleagues, when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure, I will be formally invited to Article 27, but it is obvious that here all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure or most of the provisions have been violated and that these infringements cover the complete composition of this Parliament. So all the MPs present here, and because one exhibitionist experience, which has been present for a long time, not only here but also on the street, has received something that can no longer be tolerated. The destruction has no excuse. The justification for destruction does not exist either in political animosity or in anything else that implies political exchange of views and opinions. The destruction is something that is very dangerous, and this danger over our heads has been floating for a long time. The rights of the MPs are brutally compromised, starting with the right to move in the House of Assembly, to the elemental right to work at the session of the Assembly. Such a thing can no longer be tolerated and zero tolerance for such behaviour must come from here, and here I fully agree with my colleague when it comes to appeals to state institutions that, in particular, have to react. The immunity of the MP would be completely disillusioned unless the prosecution responds, i.e. the judiciary which, in a specific case, must not remain silent or deaf to this appeal. For this reason, the SPS parliamentary group, joining all the convictions and criticisms that have been justified and established, has requested that MPs take a unique position, the stance of condemnation of what has happened today, and which has been a kind of brutal behaviour for a long time and, on the other hand, an invitation for the judiciary to act in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73966	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73967	Thank you, President. In the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary groups, I strongly condemn the events, the violence that took place and that is still happening in front of the National Assembly. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the temple of democracy and everything that happens, all political differences, must be brought here, in this room, not on the street. The violence that starts in the street, necessarily ends in fascism, necessarily ends in violence on the streets, and people end up in gas chambers. Fascism in Serbia will not go away and must not go away. I therefore insist that the state authorities adequately respond, in accordance with the laws of the regulated state, such as Serbia. Therefore, as a member of the Social Democratic Party, I must stress that violence, unculture, intolerance, insult, fascism, never dies. We always have to fight him. It was beautifully written by our great writer, Branko Ćopić, who said about them - Black horses, black horseshoes, and black horses are multiplied around the world by black horses and black horsemen, night and day vampires. Now, that's fascism, and you know where it ends. That is why I insist that the state authorities respond, in accordance with the laws of this country. One is democracy and the other is anarchy. Anarchy is rapidly growing into conflicts, and that is why, if we want democracy, it belongs here, in parliament, where we will make our differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73968	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is against this amendment to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, because it violates the existing system of elections and everything we have fought for for 10 years, from 1990 to 2000, when heavy abuses occurred in respect of electoral law. We had signatures that were forged, signatures from the cemetery monuments, we had imaginary birth numbers and miracles. I am proud to have been the initiator of passing such a law, where it has been introduced that only by judicial means can the signatures be confirmed, where it has been introduced that anyone who approaches the vote is marked on the index finger, which I have introduced transparent ballot boxes, etc. A little or little of that stuff has been questioned. The first big mistake was making it possible to vote abroad. A very small number of people responded, and controllers from Serbia had to be sent. And now, these Serbian controllers are costing more than the entire electoral process in Serbia itself. That was absolutely irrational. Every citizen is expected to come home on the day of the vote, to vote, if he wants to exercise his electoral right. If he doesn't want to, he doesn't have to. And that people are wanted in the white world to vote, even those who have lived outside for decades, so what are they interested in who will be in Belgrade if they're out there for decades? He who lives in Belgrade and suffers existing power, or will suffer future power, is life-interested in the results of the vote. We practically submitted the lists for the republican elections, although the deadlines did not expire. All parties that had the opportunity to collect 10,000 signatures have collected. Some parties were helped by advances. I'm not saying it's not against the law. You've had pets among allegedly patriotic and pro-Western parties. And you knew, they won't pass the censorship, but you'll get the most in the redistribution of their votes after the election. It's not against the law, but is it moral? That's another question. I don't think it's moral and the election has to be as clean as possible. Whoever can't collect those signatures doesn't have to go to the polls. Who can objectively collect signatures from parties that have not signed up? This group around Gilas can, objectively, although it is best for them to persist in their boycott because they can't get 10% of the votes, which is obvious, and that's the Democratic Party. There's no one left. But if the signatures are now certified this way, then you'll have a list of 20 and more bids again. What's that for? What's with the mix-up in the voter's body? For example, I won't mention who you've been collecting all the signatures for, even though I know everything, but you've been collecting to this new monarchist party. How did she come to be? By stealing two parliamentary mandates from the Serbian Renewal Movement. What you steal from each other on your list and it's not so bad, but instead of being stamped for stealing a mandate, you've collected signatures for them to go as an independent party to the election. They'd never raise 10,000 votes on their own. No one normal in Serbia would ever vote for a monarchy. What kind of man can vote for a monarchy? Nobody's normal. A certain number of lunatics would be found... (Alexander Martinovic: Djujic would vote if he were alive. I say, of the present living people. I'm not talking about those who were prisoners of former times. But amongst the living now, there's no one to vote for the monarchy, if he's normal. But he's got abnormals. What's the matter, Martinovic? Get that thing off your mouth, let me hear what you're saying. (Alexander Martinovic: The monarchy is not voted for. ) It is voted for by the party in favour of the restoration of the monarchy. There. A normal person can vote for such a party. And that's how you play with the election. You're making us a circus out of choices. You could have gotten that big rock and roll game out of there. And that game of Sugar, the late, the poor, was a good man, but it served to make the people happy. You could've done it all. Tadic has no chance to collect 10,000 signatures himself, absolutely. So, only two parties are likely to get together, but none of them are likely to get out. Maybe the Democrats change their minds. And what's to stir up that ballot for the republican elections now? It should be nice to bring it to an end, to go to elections. There'll be a chance to put it in your face that you've still been collecting signatures. But it's not necessary now, so we don't turn the debate on any of the wrong sides. It is important here that even before the introduction of these notes, it was not possible for republican elections to verify signatures in municipal officials, matrimonials or others. Only court officials could verify signatures and judicial services, only court officials had replaced the notaries. Now let's say there's not enough notaries to hurry up, so the court officials. But you've introduced now that municipal officials are confirming signatures for the republican elections and there's going to be a lot of things. Because there's no way to control anyone who's been certified, who's been checking it out. For local elections, there's something he can do, for republican people he can't. Then you'll have health records, based on health records, based on this, based on that, the birth numbers, can be 50 lists for the election. What's that for? Don't. Now, you've convinced yourself that you have 57%, so what do you need more, people? Most often he dies of greed. Don't let greed catch you to that extent. It's normal to have under 50%, that no party has over 50%. But, well, you're in a good position, you've taken advantage of the favourable circumstances that have set up for you, and what can I do? I can't cut you as much as I'd like, but don't artificially increase yourself like that. As for local elections, I am inclined to accept this solution, to return to practice that municipal officials can also verify the lists, because they are known in municipalities and know where the lists are confirmed, where they are not. When the signatures for the republican elections are collected, then in the municipalities they have no idea. Then it comes to you from a municipality of 1,000 signatures, and no one really signed the list. Slobodan Milosevic cost the authorities and lives that the Socialists and Julyers invented the signatures for the party Sinis Vucinic and thus caused a month before the elections, and Milosevic was defeated in those elections. If he hadn't done this to us, we'd never have had a fight with him, we'd have that coalition in the local elections that we agreed on, maybe he'd be ruling by now, maybe he'd still be alive and still in power. These are strange historical facts. That's the way it was, Mrkonjits. You're a witness. I've been arguing with you about it for a while. That's what happened, but take some lessons. So I'm willing to accept this. There are some other things that have not been solved, we have a flood of that anger on the Belgrade streets. It's that fascism at first. They haven't started killing people yet, but you see, they've started hurting, hitting, breaking, flagging, etc. You know what's interesting about these hot dogs? They refer to each other – mate, so they are very similar to the communists, and the same method is used. What the communists did in World War II, that's what these Latvians did, and if, God forbid, they came to power, they might be doing worse than the communists. More Serbs and Chetniks killed Latvians than died between Partisans and Chetniks until 1944. But something new came along. What's going on on national television? There's that yellow Dragan Bujosevic. It always belonged to the Democratic Party. He was looking forward to getting me dead from The Hague. He says: Will the feet forward or the head forward? He's old enough to retire. He's not retired. They said, as long as his term was up. His term of office expired the other day, they held him back to being V.D. The Serbian Radical Party has been there since I returned from the official road uninterrupted. Two times we had the opportunity to participate in some shows, except for what was prescribed for the election. He was never worse than RTS, except at a time when Bojana Lekic was CEO. Bojana Lekic and Dragan Bujosevic, these are the two darkest figures in the history of Serbian television. Last night they gave a television propaganda film "Tito – Media Icon". Not a word of criticism about the villain and the criminal, dictator Joseph Broz Tito. They praise him—he was like this, and he was like this, and in the end they compare him with Mahatma Gandhi, and Gandhi, who has never been trampled by an ant in his life, an ant, a living creature. In addition to the villain who killed more Serbs than Adolf Hitler. Are we going back to titoism? Are we celebrating the titoistic dictatorship? Did you see that movie last night? Can you tolerate that? Can we, with this election or will we celebrate some democratic traditions in Serbia, past experiences, a sacrificed struggle for democracy that Serbs have always been prone to in the 19th and 20th centuries, the bloody outcomes of these struggles, the loss of radicals and other freedoms throughout the 19th century, or are we now the pro-Western opposition to celebrate the Ljotics and similar fascists, and the regime TV restores the titoistic cult? You will say, Bujošević is not yours. Why don't you take it off? What do you allow him to stay? What did you allow to be entered into that REM by some who have always acted anti-Serbly? We used to say that on time. You didn't let the patriots fill the empty spaces, you let the worst traitors. You brought Canka and Cedu Jovanovic here to determine which people will enter REM and at a decisive moment and REM will turn against the system in Serbia. All cards already come together where, how many ministers will immediately drop you off, to break into the opposite camp, it is already known that Zorana Mihajlović is a long time ago ready there, everyone knows that, and you know that, as well as the President of the Republic knows. Everything you put up with, everything you play for goodness, humanity, etc. In law enforcement, kindness is not sought, but principledness, and therefore the God of justice is bound with eyes. She keeps her saber and cuts by law, by regulations, not seeing who's beautiful, who's not, who's pleasant, who's uncomfortable as a phenomenon, etc. Here he is moaning about the Latvians at the entrance to the National Assembly, and the side entrance is not working. It had to go through the angry people. I immediately started arguing with them there. They're smiling. I say, "How are you so young and smart and the Latvians?" Then if they piss me off, I'll beat them all up, so I can just make one phone call, call my people to piss you off and everything like that. They keep you quiet like water. You have the ministries of power in your hands and you complain. You're the one who's moaning. Beware, but you will get used to the people and the opposers and all others that you are powerless. You'll whine when they kill you like rabbits in Belgrade. One step only to that. I wasn't allowed by Djindjic either. When he sent a crowd to the National Assembly, I found out earlier, brought a hundred men with automatic rifles into the National Assembly building and went out with them and the mob met me and there was only one bullet in the air to get the crowd out. I told him and Cedomir Jovanovic before that – if they hit where the radicals are, there will be blood to the knees. We respect the election results, we've always respected, we've never violently tried to get to power, but if someone forced me out of my seat to ban me from entering the National Assembly, then blood would tread to my knees rather than allow it. This is what the people have entrusted me with, and until the people call me off, I'm here and there's no kidding. I used to be a supporter to make some kind of incident, but Benigni, not to get people hurt. If the regime was too cruel and it should have been brought to him by more known rights, but with us people didn't die, we kept an eye on him. I would not, for my coming to power, shed a single drop of Serbian blood, but the blood of sprawling traitors and enemies would if they threatened Serbia. Someone's threatening us. We're not threatened by that handful of poor people, we weren't in front of the presidency last night, I guess not a few hundred, but we're being threatened by someone on the outside who's standing behind them, and you're still courting the team outside and you want to join the EU, you want to go there, you want to come here. No, it can't. You need to get out of the way, if you're up to it. If you're not, here, you step back, we're ready to take over the political digs of the state and show what we know. We will first show that we know the seduction of order, establish a firm order, discipline, and then arrest everyone who has sinned against the law, starting with those in 2000 who have been incurring automatic rifles to the National Bank of Yugoslavia and other state institutions, who have made crisis headquarters and who have thus assumed power. I didn't rest then, and I offered Milosevic a mandate to form a new government to clear it up. Here's the living socialists, they shouldn't have. They thought a little bit, so they thought it would be better to take a line of less resistance, compromise solutions, and it ruined you. Right? Did I stop at one point in opposing the Dosmanian regime? Never, always defiant in the National Assembly. (People MP Cedomir Jovanovic casts. Chado, why did you get so high that you didn't have a virus scare you? (Kedomir Jovanovic: Rather, the SPS failed, and you're doing well.) Well, the failed SPS deserved to fail if it didn't work out, what I could do was fail, but we didn't fail, no matter what hit us, no matter what we had on the outside or on the inside, we didn't fail, we kept our ideology, our cheek, most importantly, and our willingness to take power at any moment, if we earned our people's will, our people's trust. Only on that condition. Here all those who know that they can never win power go to the street, because many of you have learned to take the street to gain power. You've been a guardian of the holy fire for months, a few years, until the conditions were matured that the US headquarters from Hungary collected enough dollars, organized resistance, bribed police generals, bribed the mob and took the final blow. (Kedomir Jovanovic: When you admitted the election results. What? Milosevic was defeated in the presidential elections. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Then what Americans? ) I know, but it was no reason for you to assume the full power, but only for Kostunica's presidential function to take over, and nothing else, and you took over everything because the Socialists were soft and let you go. I wouldn't give you anything, so let's see how you can take it by force. They were a majority partner, they and the juries, they made a coalition with you, we left then power and over. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Did Toma know better than you, so he was... ) As far as Tom is concerned, it is your product. It's not really yours, but it is Tadic and that Miki Rakic, the most monstrous figure in the history of the second half of the 19th century.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73970	Thank you, Professor Seselj. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. The right to replica has Nedjo Jovanovic, mentioning the SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73971	The Socialist Party of Serbia, regardless of how its past was viewed and the political path it was going through, has no reason to stand before the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as, I can say freely, a respectable political party. But given that some facts appear to the citizens subjectively, as they correspond to individual political parties, the truth needs to be told, and the truth, as one is the next – Vojislav Kostunica did have a number of votes, but did not win the elections. He didn't win, simply, which was exclusively a legal system, or legal norm, put him in a position that he couldn't be the winner of these elections and that he had to be held in the second election round. This second election round, here everyone knows well, has never been maintained, which is why there is no law of victory. The legitimacy of someone who's got the election yes, legality never. What I want to point out in front of the SPS is the fact that anyone that we've made a political coalition with, agreements, wherever we've worked together, in synergy politically, we've always had political correctness expressed, and that political correctness has never been questioned, as it confirms today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73972	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73973	It is true that Kostunica did not get more than 50% of the vote, which was necessary under the constitution, but it had 10% more than Milosevic, so in the second round, it would certainly have won. We controlled the results, that's what it was, people. But the worst of all that the Constitutional Court declared the victory of Kostunica and Kostunica came to Milosevic with that paper and Milosevic acknowledged defeat. (Marian Risticevic: Then they rejected votes from Kosovo. () As I was kidnapped by victory, by taking votes from Kosovo, that's another thing. (Maria Risticevic: Then they rejected the votes. Well, they refused to come to me as well. First, I won the election, thanks to the fact that they have packed Lilicu boxes in Kosovo. (Kedomir Jovanovic: That's when you sold.) And where are the elections sold, Chado? What are you lying about? What are you doing? But pay that wheat six million euros. Well, second thing here, what's wrong with you? Here, today, "Politika" published the necrologian Spasoi Krunic. Belgrade's first major robber, the second one was Gilas, may have been more robbed by Gilas, but the first one was Spasoje Krunic and the entire Serbian Renewal Movement. We radicals participated in the overthrow of Djindjic, and the most important thing was for Djindjic to fall, but we did not want to coalition with the Serbian Renewal Movement, we wanted new elections. You Socialists have supported the Serbian Renewal Movement for three years, and now the necrologist in "Politica" stands, who signed your coalition partner Aleksandar Čotric, that Spasoje Krunic had the most trouble of opposing these plantings, mines, etc., which he used is not important. Like, you were his biggest problem, and if it hadn't been for your support, he couldn't even rule Belgrade, because the SPO had minority authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73974	Thank you. Neđa Jovanovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73975	The Socialist Party of Serbia paid the political price. She paid for the reasons why objective facts suggest that October 5th, although October 5th is the date of unfavorable expectations, so I can say, and false promises to the people because after that the people found themselves in a position not to know who to trust, whether to believe those who allegedly won the elections on October 5th, I said allegedly, or already to whom. But what is important is to point out that we cannot handle assumptions and some future uncertain circumstances. Would you lose Milosevic in the second election round, it is now a question that is more rhetorical than factually justified. The estimates may exist, but the facts suggest that Milosevic had a large number of votes, far higher than anyone after him who has proposed in the political sense words to that highest leadership position. And those are the facts. Therefore, the SPS will never be ashamed of what it should be ashamed of, but it will always be ready and responsible to show citizens that it is ready to accept and what was missing, bad, negative in acting, political action and all that we can and should bear as some kind of mortgage, but in no way does this mean that the current SPS does not go the way that implies a path on one side of political rebirth, and on the other side of one stable trust of the electoral body in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73976	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73977	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be brief. You know I'm not interested in Shessel's raving, but you are the government and today I have nothing in common with Marijana Risticevic, but you be the authority or step aside. I'm sitting in this congregation, not because I'm impressed with society, but because I respect some order and we can tell each other whatever comes to mind, but I'm never going to let people step in here because they think otherwise. The government, Nejo, you have a Deputy Prime Minister, I don't care who's from which party. I don't want to remind you of what the congregations were like in 2000 when that man was torn up here, every time he was commented on speaking, was my MP for four years. Everyone wears their cross. Or seduce the order in this country, and the ones with the torches, you arrest in curfew. Those who threaten doctors from the steps of the congregation, punish as you punish people when they return from the ground, so you catch them around the entrance for coming out, and they should be in some self - isolation for 28 days. It's a shame you're here talking about how you've written 10,000 criminal charges. We're supposed to be at war on the steps of the Assembly. Power, be power, lead the country. It's a responsibility. Well, then one day someone's gonna tell you how Seselj talks to me, accuses me of being a thief, that I've done something by force. On October 5th, it was fairer than today on the steps of the Assembly. On one side were the cordons who shot at us, and on the other we who fought against them. People came here today to say something, not fight. It is not disputed that we can do this, but if we start to regulate our lives with these arguments, then it is better that we have never entered parliament or that we have ever done this job. That Serbia does not deserve, especially not, our generations that have this difficult experience behind them. This must never happen again. It's not my idea to talk about it at press conferences. Here in the Assembly or parliament there is or this is a road den. No one acted like this at 3:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73978	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I hope you're all right, seeing as how you've been better than Marijan Risticevic, but you've been through something similar. The People's MP Vojislav Seselj has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, history is a teacher of life and it's not bad to remind ourselves of what happened before. I had never had any hope in October 5th, and on October 6th, I had already thundered that the worst scum and scum had come to power and acted so consistently until I went on my official trip. And with those words, I went on my official journey, that I only regret that I didn't bring that scum down from power before, was an obstacle to the battle in The Hague. So you can't tell me that. Cedo Jovanovic was with Zoran Djindjic at my place about two, three days after October 5th, perhaps already October 6th. It was not two three days later that they were already talking about the extraordinary republican elections. Yes, but it's already been said about the snap elections, it was that consulting meeting in the Republic Assembly before that. I showed Djindjic our project of electoral law. Djindjic took it in his hand and returned it to me and said, "I accept." Is that what happened? Did he even look at it? Did he even read it? No, because he trusted me, if we did something that we did right and right. However, I was welcomed by the mob, and she wanted to lynch me in front of the National Assembly and I showed my teeth and there was no mob. They didn't attack me at all. Now, if you allow your MPs to attack, it will become standard practice. You allow it, you yawn, here. I've only heard the blizzards from the ruling coalition. Where's the determination? Where's the minister? Why didn't the minister come and say what he was doing? That's what the police minister says -- here's what we've done, and the identified attackers are arrested. If a people's messenger is beaten on the steps of the National Assembly, what will the National Assembly do to us? To end the National Assembly. Our radicals won't be beaten by anyone, on the stairs, anywhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73980	Thank you, Professor Seselj. The People's MP Nedjo Jovanovic, a replica, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73981	I thank the chairman. I cannot accept the replicas today as criticism of the SPS as part of the government, because we are a responsible part of the government. Obviously, we share the same opinions and the same criteria of value. Our system of values isn't different. I have to say by name and last name, regardless of what I will allow him to replicate probably, Mr. Jovanovic that he was not present when I was here for the third time, because it is once in the hall at a press conference, because our president, Djordje Milicevic, pointed out, and I have now been here for the second time, saying that destruction cannot be a way to resolve political disputes. That destruction has no excuse, that we can confrontation in anything in the political sense of words, but that this confrontation we won't be able to solve by destruction, because we're entering something that's most dangerous, destroying the system, destroying the state. But Mr. Jovanovic apparently addressed the wrong address. We can't arrest us and the address he's supposed to address is the third branch of the government, and that's the judiciary. Since it is independent and should be independent, none of us can sign a court order which the court should execute and how to execute and whom to arrest and whom to prosecute. We have made a very clear appeal from here, but only an appeal for the judiciary to start working, that within the limits of the law and the powers prescribed by law all measures are being taken in the direction of the processing of all those who are preventing the work of this Parliament and who are destroying the reputation of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73982	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73983	Well, since it's so regular how order comes and how it's supposed to go in a circle of powers, they can't possibly get in line, and frankly, nobody here has done anything wrong by their colleagues who have spoken before me. But all of this is slowly losing its meaning. Does this condemn what happened today, I'm speaking on behalf of my MP group JS, do we condemn this here in this room or what happened we condemn in the central hall, absolutely unspeakable of any weight. Ten groups of MPs say the same thing and nobody does anything about it. President, I'm asking you now to interrupt this assembly and ask the Republic Prosecutor's Office for an answer on what's going on with this situation. I don't speak for Marijan Rističević now. We had a situation here yesterday to break the flag, today to beat up the MP, what happens tomorrow? If Vojislav Seselj says, let's show our teeth, so believe me, the JS is always ready to show our teeth, and then we have more active athletes than we all do in martial arts, so you know. But that's not the point, we don't need to show our teeth, this is where the system needs to do its job. So, I'm not saying on behalf of 250 MPs and not only on behalf of the United Serbia to which I belong, but on behalf of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, stop this Assembly, take a break, ask the prosecution to plead. If you don't do it, everything we've said today and what someone else is going to talk about, it's losing its meaning. Please answer me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73984	Thank you, Mr. Vujic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. What you asked for, or requested, I will pass on to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want to follow the Rules of Procedure? The word is Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Vojislav Vujic: By Business. You can't do it twice. He can't. Look at the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak as authorized, but let me put this proposal briefly. Do not interrupt the session of the National Assembly. The goal of those who attacked me is to stop working and give them weight and pay attention to them. Their goal is to sow fear. Dimitrij Ljotic said in time – we do not need voters, we need fighters. Bosko Obradovic is consistent with this implementation of Ljotic's fascist policy. He wants to have fighters, they won't, they don't need voters. Sowing fear, as much as this hurts and so on, sowing fear is their goal. Is it that it hurts, but I have no right to be afraid because if we were to be afraid of them and interrupt the session, what should the citizens do? This isn't an attack on me, this is an attack on certain state authorities, first of all, the prosecution. I have already filed criminal charges for the violence of Bosko Obradovic, and the prosecution said -- well, there are no elements and so on. They let him do it pretty good and wild. So this is a job for the state's office, for the D.A.'s office. Despite everything, we should do our job, even if Bosko Obradovic and shoot someone, we have no right to show fear for that phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73986	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Marian Risticevic: No. Thank you. The word is made by MP Vojislav Vujic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73987	You tell me if I'm right or not. I ask the National Assembly to declare this. Put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73988	He'll plead, colleague Vujic, when the time comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73989	There's no reason. How long do we have to wait? Should we wait until Sunday after the vote, then plead? This is what happened now. This is an incident that if it goes unpunished it will happen every day. Are you interested in having this happen to you, to me or to anyone else tomorrow? Put it to the vote if most people won't condemn this, then all right, let's keep going, but respect that much, and then don't tell me I don't have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73990	Thank you, colleague Vujic. You know for a fact that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I don't have the opportunity to put it on any kind of vote right now. He has all his procedures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Vojislav Vujic: Yes. - Yes, you do. Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Right on Nejji Jovanovic's line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73991	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Jovanovic, is not about Ljotic or Bosko Obradovic or the D.A. and the third branch of the government. This is about only us, so it's just us. I've told you all my life I've been traveling through this country at three o'clock in the darkest den on the Ibaric magistrate's more self-respect than those sitting in the O.R. today. We're the subject, not some prosecutors. If we step on ourselves to this extent and disrespect ourselves, how do we expect anyone to respect this place where we come every day? Is there a bottom or doesn't exist? I repeat, we can tell each other anything here, people will reason on it, who's decent, who's not decent, who's lying, who's telling the truth, but if we don't have dignity and self-respect, then Serbia has neither democracy nor parliament. What prosecutors? They're not responsible for this. Bosko Obradovic, so he doesn't vote for himself. Twenty prots stood in front of the congregation, doing what they could think of, are they hungry? Did they lose their jobs? Defend Kosovo. Did something in Kosovo lose their hoards and their counters? They spit on women. We're the subject, not them. Do you want to go to the election? Well, then you can't go to the election unless you're ready to respect someone else. It's true what he says, the day after October 5th, the Assembly was still smoking, we went to the magistrate, he was with Todorovic, there's a witness. He took out the electoral law and said – Djindjic, Serbia is one electoral unit. That's what we've been looking for since the '90s. Zoran took the law, didn't look at it, that we had him before we handed him over in the procedure to see if there was any technical failure. The law was in force until Tadic started playing with electoral legislation. It was only respect, not respect for Seselj, but only respect. If you've been looking for something for ten years and you're fighting for something, then don't step on yourself. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73992	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Thank you all for your participation and for your replicas. The word is Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73993	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, came forward as an authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia to discuss the laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the laws on the agenda today. Before that, I must condemn, or need to personally condemn the violence that took place in front of the Assembly, which took place the other day and here in the Assembly, and it is necessary for the state authorities to react on time. Simply, if we allow violence in front of parliament, violence in front of the presidency, what can citizens expect on the street tomorrow, anywhere else? How can they feel safe? The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, as these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the election of MPs and on local elections are the fruit of an agreement by all political entities who want to go to the upcoming parliamentary and local elections. And it's a reflection of democracy. This is proof that we from the ruling coalition are ready to discuss all important issues. Two days ago, we lifted the state of emergency and, accordingly, the Republic Election Commission and the City Election Commission will make a decision Monday on the teacher's conduct of election actions. The election process has been suspended due to the introduction of a state of emergency, and we are now continuing only where we left off. It is good that representatives of all political parties have found common language and reached a consensus on the date of the elections, and I think there is enough time to complete all pre-election actions, and above all, what is most important, to collect signatures of support for the lists to be submitted for the election of MPs and local parliaments. So far, the Republic Election Commission has declared nine lists for parliamentary elections and, mostly, are the same political entities and handed over lists to the locals, so that they can take part in local elections. A total of about 550,000 signatures have been certified. I think it's consistent with this data that there's a smaller part of the job left when it comes to this part of the election process. Although the parliamentary local elections are originally scheduled to take place on 26 April, I believe the decision to postpone elections is justified. Not only have the elections been postponed in Serbia, the presidential elections in Poland were postponed yesterday, the republican elections in northern Macedonia were postponed, and this is a regular year for parliamentary and local elections and it is important for these elections to be organised in an efficient way, because there is simply no legal basis for further postponement of the elections. The proposed amendments to the laws we are discussing today mean that, in addition to public notebooks, signatures can also be certified by city and municipal administrations. It's a good move, first of all, that will reduce the crowds and there will be no delay in collecting signatures. I must stress that it is also very important that political parties organise their part of the job well. All of us who do this work know that it is important that good party infrastructure works and that there is no stalemate, that people's safety is respected and that human health is not compromised. There's plenty of time for that. There are 26 days left for all who want to participate in the elections to collect signatures and hand over lists. This agreement on the date of the elections and the amendments to these laws is actually proof that there is one consensus between political entities going to the polls. The most important thing in this situation is to show from one side understanding of voters, that is, that their health comes first and that is the organisation, that is, of an effective organisation of the electoral process. On the other hand, we must also show understanding of the coalitions and political parties that go to the elections. These laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs and on local elections, are exactly what they do, because this facilitates the procedure for collecting signatures for the electoral lists. It is certain that the upcoming campaign will not be as it was before, something will be different. Political parties will seek to position themselves better in the election campaign, and we will face several challenges. I have no doubt we'll be well-organized to this election. State facilities are good. She's shown the state that she can function perfectly in a state of emergency. I will remind you that an election process has been organised in the course of the pandemic in South Korea, that elections have been held successfully. About 44 million voters in the country had the right and all have the right to elect their representatives in the parliamentary elections. However, special measures and procedures have been applied in that country. There was also a vote in quarantine centers. Even 60,000 South Korean citizens, who were domestically isolated, were given the opportunity to vote when polling stations were closed. The turnout was highest since 1992. More than 66% of citizens enrolled in the voter's list went out and voted in those elections. In this way, this country has become not only a good model in the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus, but has also set an excellent model in the organisation of the electoral process. I hope that we too will be so successful, especially because of the situation that the virus is edging and that we will have much better working conditions, so there are no legitimate criticisms that the elections are further delayed. We'll have, first of all, two challenges in the next campaign. The first is to preserve the safety, that is, the health of the citizens. The second is to successfully implement the laws we passed at the end of last year, or early this year. These are laws that change certain electoral conditions, i.e. directly to electoral legislation. At that time, by passing these laws, we improved the electoral process, we improved electoral legislation. I will remind you that we have passed laws concerning the financing of a political campaign, laws relating to public enterprises, as well as the Anti-Corruption Agency. The aim of all these laws is to fight effectively against abuse of public resources during the election campaign. We will thus prevent the use of property, cars, official or premises of any company or state authority, and we will remove pressure from employees by the employer to in any way identify themselves as a political option. In this way, we have precisely defined the legal provisions and sent a clear message that we are ready to fight these problems in the long term and to solve one of these issues in the long run. I will also remind you that by amending the legal standards of the Anti-Corruption Agency, we have given greater authority, strengthened the mechanisms for its operation. The Anti-Corruption Agency will be able to respond and sanction all those who break the rules during the election campaign in due time. We also reduced the electoral censorship from 5% to 3% and thus allowed all political factors with a certain political weight to enter parliament. In this way, parliament will become a place where more political parties will be represented and parliament is a place where political parties should represent their ideas, to make their views known. It's not exactly the street that's happening these days. We will not forget that we have changed the legal norms in which it is possible to encourage women to be more active in politics, given one tradition, where women were less involved in political events in our country. For SDPS, all of this is very important, because this is how we achieve one goal, which is to create a stable political system, restore citizens' confidence in the electoral process and establish a political system in accordance with the will of the people and the real power of political parties. The parties will have plenty of time for the campaign by 21 June. They'll have time to expose their ideas, expose their views, their programs. Our coalition will have something to boast about, it'll have something to say to the citizens. There are the results of the work that are very concrete and it will be our best marketing in the next campaign. I would like to remind you that this year's regular parliamentary elections are being held in the neighbourhood, Croatia and Montenegro, an extraordinary parliamentary in Macedonia, local elections in BiH, and we will be the first to organise elections after the pandemic of the virus. That is why it is the desire of all of us from the SDPS to organise the electoral process well and efficiently, to become a model by which later countries from the environment, but also other countries in Europe, will be successful in organising their elections, and I hope that, regardless of the circumstances that we have and which are behind us, the 21st of June will be a holiday of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73994	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Now the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73995	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will in the voting day unreservedly support the draft laws you sent to the Assembly for discussion and on which we are holding the discussion today. I will first refer to the laws proposed by the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and, above all, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to point out one fact that, in my opinion, is very important, which is what we send to citizens when we comment on these laws and when we stand so firmly in the position to vote for these laws. The main message would be that these laws provide too much protection from the risk of contagion, the removal of the consequences that can arise precisely because of this and that is something that, in any case, is fully justified by the government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the protection of health and life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, a few more facts need to be pointed out. One that cannot be ignored in any case, and cannot be doubted, is that this is precisely how electoral laws improve electoral conditions. It is this measure, and this very proposal for a law, that qualitatively contributes to the election conditions, which have already been agreed and where the opposition has come out, and that has all come out to the opposition, even more affirmatively, to what means the possibility of a democratic political struggle and to show political potential in a democratic way in accordance with the law. If we take into account the fact that there are units of local self-government whose congregations count and more than 50 council members, by law is a maximum number of 90, then we come into the situation that, given the obligation of 30 signatures, it means that several thousand mandatory signatures are required to be submitted to the committee list, and these several thousand signatures involve several thousand people who are going to fluctuate towards the place where these signatures are being carried out, that is, where the signing is done in the register of a public notary. That's a fact. If you have several thousand people, it means not only the excess of the maximum number prescribed, but the situation of one great risk, the high degree of risk. No matter what the virus loses its potential, no matter how gradually it emerges from a major pandemic-induced crisis, we still have the presence of a virus around us or maybe even inside us, we may be the virus carriers. That is the very fact that we are causing a proper degree of danger and that is one of the solutions that can be considered both human and morally justified, and in any case, by adopting this law and completely legal. Here is the question that arises from the framework of the bill's proposal, which is the question which binds us both as law-makers and the Government as legislator - whether Serbia has a sufficient number of public notebooks, which is why we are forced to allow, in technical terms, to sign in municipalities, units of local self-government, in front of competent authorities, where there are no public notebooks in front of courts, or persons who are authorised by courts to do such a kind of work? My personal opinion, primarily from the point of view of the profession, is that Serbia needs an additional number of public notebooks, because it is obvious that the situation has shown that it could not have responded adequately to the task. I'm talking about a notary in Serbia, on the one hand, and on the other hand, even if there was no pandemic, even if it wasn't for this emergency situation, we have to accept one fact that is indisputable, that a large number of political parties had no access to public records, that not all of them were able to realise that political activity that is mandatory for them to enter a political match, which is the handover of a parliamentary, or parliamentary list. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must consider this issue as being well analysed and answered in the right way, and exclusively in the interests of citizens. Dear Ministers Ruzic and the Honorable Minister Loncar, allow me, as an authorised representative of the SPS Group, to take up a little broader concept of the discussion on the proposal for your laws, because we are expected by citizens in some way. Let's start with something that no one will ever suspect. In this emergency situation, everyone was doing their job for which the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Serbian State, eventually we MPs, the profession, the employees, all those who participated in the fight against the Koronavirus and by doing and not by doing it. What is very important is to point out that the result of this struggle is unambiguously clear when two goals are being achieved. First, that Serbia has preserved its health system, and by preserving its health system, it has preserved the lives of citizens and that of the most sensitive part of the population in Serbia, which is old and sick, because these two facts are in solid correlation. If the health system hadn't been preserved, there is a question that the tragic consequences would have been due to the inability to stay in the hospital of an appropriate number, which certainly wouldn't have been small or as large as it is now, when they are infected. A great recognition in this sense should be given to the profession, and in no case should it be a phrase and a flossula, to call them heroes, because they really are. However, honourable Minister Loncar, I hope that you will agree with me in one position that is simply imposed, which is the view that in this situation many have acted far from ethical principles, from the collective and ethical code, so as a consequence of all this, we have had various conspiracy theorists, where literally politicians were placed in the role of the profession, and then, by usurping the profession and doctrinal attitudes, we have imposed certain thoughts on the citizens, which created no less than confusion. We must also be honest in that initial period of the fight against the pandemic, that there have been appropriate discrepancies, that perhaps the profession, not in Serbia, but generally, has worked colitisically. When I say collegiately, it means that there was no unity in both risk assessments and in evaluations of what the danger of Coronavirus implies. As a result, confusion increased. But what does it matter to point out? In addition to all this, despite these conflicting views, and despite various interlocutions, which were driven by conspiracy theorists, the majority of Serbian citizens acted extremely responsibly, trusting only those to be trusted, which is an expert part of the government of Serbia's team, which carried the greatest burden and responsibilities and obligations towards citizens to present the views that are only possible, and these are attitudes that are related to protecting the lives of citizens. It is not a social distance that is a felt and phrase, but a serious fact which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have devoted themselves to in the best possible way, by respecting it. And that is something that implies both the level of awareness and responsibility and the discipline of citizens of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to fighting the Koronavirus. We in the SPS are very clear, precisely determined according to everything that's happened in this pandemic and in the pandemic itself, that is, everything that involves fighting the Coronavirus. It wasn't in any case stories that had no basis. It wasn't the attitudes put forward for political marketing. On the contrary, these were attitudes that further strengthened citizens in everything that implies a higher level of trust in the decisions of the government of the Republic of Serbia and respect for all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done for its citizens. Our president, Ivica Dacic, has expressed several very clear views in this regard. The first - calling on all relevant factors, both Europe and beyond, to answer some questions that no one has answered so far, and these questions, when all this is over, will open up and will have to be closed, and the only way of closing is adequate, factually well-founded and professionally justified answers. No one is, nor is it, under the burden of any prejudice, even when the prejudices of vaccination are at stake. As citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we must be overly responsible for ourselves and our loved ones, and this means that we expect that the process that is coming is coming, and that is the process of finding an effective drug against Coronavirus, prevention against Coronavirus, to mean something that will be exclusively safe for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which means safe for our health. Only in this sense, through this focus can we have to observe the situation that is coming, which is linked to both vaccination and to finding effective, or effective medicines. When I said that everyone was doing their job extremely responsible, and it is, I have to point out something that implies an exception to it. And I'll be very precise, critical, but extremely objective. Not personally, because as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I am obliged to state our political position as well. One part, and only one part of the third branch of government, did not respond to the task set before it, which is part of the judicial system. Why am I saying this and I think it's fact-finding? We are coming out of a crisis, we are entering a process that implies normalisation of life in Serbia, and we have institutions that are not ready to start working. It's our courts, and it's mostly first-degree courts. We, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have a predominant elemental right, with the Constitution guaranteed that they can always make access to the court, while at the same time expecting the court to be overly equal before the law and legal certainty, are now in a position to wait for the start of work of a very important institution, which is the third citizen of the government. The damage is suffered by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it cannot be responsible for the Ministry of Justice, because it is not competent, but it is responsible for the High Council of the judiciary, which must make recommendations and instructions based on the positions of the profession, in which way it is necessary to approach the start of work after the suspension of the state of emergency and normalisation of all life flows in the Republic of Serbia. Dear Ministers, we still don't have that. From the point of view of the profession alone, I have to say that because of the inability of an adequate start of work, he suffers lawyerwork and suffers citizens as a party. Why the lawyer? Because, with the help of the government of the Republic of Serbia, where lawyers have achieved benefits to receive 30,000 dinars a month, as some kind of support, help in a situation where there is no work to be done, and during that time the judges are at work at home and earning full pay, respected ministers, the full amount of earnings. Is this full amount of profit something that can be accepted, I won't say for the trouble, but in any case for a situation where we're not all in the same position and we can talk freely about certain types of discrimination. What I'm saying, I'm saying extremely well-intentioned. Because while some institutions have been constantly working, where you've worked day and night, others haven't, and they've achieved their labour rights and work-based rights. And instead of at least achieving their right to vacation in May of the month from a moral point of view, in order to schedule the hearings in June, July, August -- no. And then we'll have a situation that it'll be out there by the end of the year or maybe in the new year. In order not to go further away from what the subject implies, and I said that this is a broader context of what I want to comment on when it comes to the government's work at a time of emergency, the fight against Coronavirus, I just have to remind myself of what my distinguished colleague, Zarko Obradovic, has already pointed out several times when discussing exactly the topics relating to the fight against Coronavirus and everything the government has done in that fight. I am on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, the honourable ministers, unreservedly supporting it. There is no reason to doubt anything that has been done for the benefit of the citizens. Therefore, in the end, I will support the overwhelming proposal for tightening the fines, which implies the consequence of counter-action due to the violation of a certain part of the protection measure, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, affirming all that has been done by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, starting with the opening of a contact centre through which citizens could receive adequate information, guidelines, instructions, instructions, to submit applications, for various illegal activities of the various parts of the state system, such as illegal dismissal of employees, illegal price increases, so we will not say banal and trivial calls, but in any case calls that are daily lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and these calls were from those most likely - when they can come out, how much time to spend outside, in which way they use protective equipment, etc. Dear Minister Ruzic, for every commendation, it is the fact that your ministry has provided the necessary needs for units of local self-government when it comes to the organisation of health protection at the level or territories of units of local self-government in the form of forwarding or delivery of protective equipment and everything else you have done. Both your suggestions, and that's the last thing I'm going to say, are for every respect and respect. The SPS parliamentary group will vote for your proposals in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73996	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73997	Your Honor, I absolutely agree with you and I'm glad you pointed that out - the extraordinary, extra-serial efforts of health workers and their commitment from day one to day and beyond for everything that will have to be. Let me remind you that we still have patients with whom our healthcare professionals are and whose health they continue to fight for. They've done immense gratitude for what they've done, for what they've done, and for the result they've achieved. Many did not hope that our system was able to do so and achieve this result. I'm glad we denied them. Once again, every honor to the health workers and all those who participated in this process, from members of the police, the military and all others who were on that line of the front. As for your position, your observation that at first there were opinions of such and statements that were subsequently not confirmed or otherwise confirmed, I must tell you that it happened absolutely in the whole world. What reason did it happen? Because the facts and evidence that were available and known at that moment and based on this, there were conjecture as to what it could be and in which direction it could go. This should be a serious lesson for the future, for all of us as long as we have to be careful in future events that will inevitably come. I'll remind you that at that time we received most of the information from the World Health Organization, most of it. One part of those who had experience with it and based on that went on about it. Don't, please, judge those people who, at that point, based on these facts, have made their views known, because none of them had the intention to deceive anyone, nor to exaggerate or reduce anything. These are the people who have accepted the same second to be part of the decision-making team and who knew the second – whatever decisions they would be, that they would be part of those who would dispute and be smart later and so forth. I wish everyone had an understanding of it and they just knew that none of these people would be more expensive than anyone else if they could have predicted it at that moment, on the basis of knowing how to go and say do it. Secondly, I am immensely proud and grateful to the vast majority of Serbian citizens who have listened to doctors. If it hadn't been for that, we wouldn't be talking in this atmosphere today, and we'd have much bigger problems, much more sick, much more dead, and the question of what condition our health system would be. This happened thanks to good measures, but those measures would have had no effect if the citizens hadn't listened. Was it easy for the citizens to listen? I don't think it's for the reason that you said, that there were a lot of those who wanted to abuse this, each for some reason, and that we had one, I think, the broadest democracy that exists, that everyone had the right to say whatever it was that occurred to him, whether he was a doctor, whether he was any other medical professions, whether he had anything to do with medicine, health care or anything. Everyone was allowed to speak their mind. I'm extremely proud of that. No one has been told not to speak his mind, although he doesn't know much about it, he's not trained for it or anything. Many have dared to talk about therapy, talk about treatment, talk about all other things that are not correct to talk about. They don't realize that, first of all, they've insulted all health care professionals, all the people who've invested in school for decades and learn to do it. We rarely got the impression that when some of them finished their statements, they'd go to Kovid Hospital and start treating people. The doctors called me and asked me, "Shall we withdraw, that they may come, that they may know all things?" Introduce some course this year, let the course for medicine, for health care, for epidemiology, for infectious diseases, introduce, let them finish, cancel college, there's no need. The people who have invested so much in it were justifiably bitter, but thanks to the vast majority of Serbian citizens who have supported healthcare workers, supported them, supported their measures, listened to what they have said, we are where we are. That's the victory that matters. It's too early to make an analysis and make some conclusions. It will only be realistic for years, as long as all things are considered and until they are done, and only for that reason would I beg for patience. I'm telling you now -- it's going to be a year, two, three, four, five where this is going to be analysed and that people who participated in this will be extremely, extremely proud, even more proud than today when all aspects are done that have to be considered to be done. I want to tell the citizens of Serbia, first of all, that they need a little more patience. They don't need those heavy measures anymore, but those heavy measures saved people's lives and health, but these basics, this responsibility, keeping the distance, using the mask in a closed area, to prevent the virus that's still there, that we have to live with, that we don't make ourselves auto-naked in some extensions, in the end of the game, there's no reason. We can't relax too soon. We can come to that stage so that we can get this ship into a quiet port, leave it there, and see how the situation develops further, because we need to be aware that this isn't all 100% of us. Tomorrow we're gonna have to open the borders, people coming to us, our people are gonna go, and they're gonna come back, and we're gonna have to keep this thing under control. I only ask for a little more patience and a little bit of responsibility, so that we can get back into a situation where the health system is doing what it's meant to do, mostly to help all people, not to make a difference between those who Corona are positive or those who are negative and to take advantage of the opportunity to improve it even more, to invest even more in that health system and to be even more proud of it. Not to forget once again, the immeasurable gratitude to the citizens of Serbia, which, in addition to all the opinions they had, listened to doctors and did according to their recommendations and that we have today's result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73998	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u73999	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, it would be extremely deplaceable to make any comment compared to what you said, because it's all true, with me being obliged to draw attention to something that may be misread, even the thought of criticizing the profession does not exist. If I was talking about some conflicting performance of the profession in terms of different attitudes, in terms of carrying out assessments that are not compatible, as a citizen, I view only from one aspect, that all of us, and above all, are faced with a problem that we have never met, not us, but a number, to call them that, our predecessors. No one has ever faced anything as unknown as Coronavirus. It is logical that different estimates are presented from this aspect, but not a little malice, but extremely well-intentioned and in an attempt to solve the problem, no different. But if there were abuses, well, that's so obvious, it would be the ultimate banalizing of the whole story that I'm now telling who he is and how he abused this whole situation. Would you get involved in a legal profession or me in medicine? Never. But you know for a fact that we've had a great deal of situations over social networks, and who knows what we don't, where we've had the opportunity to see those, who can even suspect, that they deliberately wanted to create an atmosphere of extra pressure, extra fear, for some personal interests, political points, or whatever. In any case, we're in complete agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74000	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74001	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the group is not dangerous. So when you're attacked by a pack, it's not just a pack, it's a dangerous pack boss. We need to take care of it. It is not their goal to beat up Arsic, to beat up Maja Gojkovic, what they tried, Martinovic, they shot him, their goal is to bring unrest, and I guess you see, to write to their bosses a little bit that, behold, they are harassed by most. This carries out the terror of minorities above most, and it is a convincing minority. We should stand up to them, not by force, but by law. The power of law, not the law of power. So, as they apply the law of power, one day we need to apply the force of the law, by having the understanding that they are trying to prove dictatorship by bringing one of them into an informative conversation, and then proving that this country is dictatorial, and that the president of the state is a dictator and that democracy is gone in Serbia, that there is no freedom of the press, etc., which is absolutely untrue. Yesterday I was with this man in the field. This is my father from 87 years old and he was happy yesterday, because he could come to the field, and this is the first sowing plant in which he did not actively participate in certain fields. So, while he was running it and working with us when we were little, now that he's old, he's still doing it with us. He was worried that people wouldn't be hungry. He's 87 years old, we have something to eat. He was trying in the cloak in the yard to make his contribution. He raised me and three-quarters of our family is over the Drina. He moved in in 1987. I was born in 1958. We are the 8th offensive. We were paramedics, we were hungry, we were thirsty, but we were honest, especially in a group we didn't attack anyone. We used to defend ourselves. I've never politically exploited the fact that our family in World War II killed Ustashas, even in this last war. We lost nine close relatives, uncle, uncle, brother to uncle, etc. I pulled my brother out of Sarajevo for 42 days, out of Rylovac, headless, for 42 days I pulled him out. That's what these multiethnics know, over which we've done something. No, my family didn't do anything, they did anything to us. But in all these behaviors, we looked to be honorable. He was very happy yesterday. Let me remind you that during one of the attacks here in the Assembly, attempts at physical assault while they were looking for me in the offices, is that right, Mr. Martinovic, that they tried, even the journalists, those journalists, were enthusiastically writing about how I escaped, which is not true, I was in my office. When they tried to invent an affair about a sick girl, when they attacked me here, my mother died of a heart attack after three days. I never told my political opponents that they contributed. The woman, regardless of her half-movement, had a TV set and watched the National Assembly sessions, and no matter how sick she was herself, she was worried about her son no matter how fat I was. I was raised not to do what you didn't want others to do to you. He was worried whether people were fed up, whether they had enough food, and today I was attacked by sieves, tense, angry, and hanged. Among them was a man who cheated on farmers, from Loznica some Slavish or whatever his name was. He came from Loznica to deal with me. I guess he's not happy with the agricultural policy, I guess he can't fool those farmers anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of infectious diseases, don't pay too much attention to them, they need to be dealt with by the law. I believe in the state, I believe in state leadership because there is patience for such phenomena. I don't trust an independent prosecutor's office, I don't trust an independent judiciary, because it tolerates it. It was chosen in 2009/2010 and the judiciary in a certain way, honoring exceptions, exposure to DS, some apologies to those who had to come out of that party eventually and to come out, so these are exposures, hidden by some committees, etc., it has its own schemes. I'm not part of any scheme. Better they attacked me than I attacked them. But in terms of infectious diseases, they attack us all the time. We, to return, have not been told by the ministers, and I mean by the MPs, to return to the pandemic of swine flu in 2009, 2010. I took the Batut research. It says there are 6,000 people diagnosed, if I'm wrong, let the minister correct me, but literally that's what the report says. The fatal outcomes were 137, which means it was 2.3%. About an epidemic that had a vaccine and we bought it, I don't know what number, so we could then, like Zivkovic, vaccinate chickens, because it turns out there was no need. The epidemic also says that laboratory confirmations, according to the report, if I'm wrong, then the error in the report was 706 people, 84 of whom died, and from 84 to the day of arrival or the first day after arrival, over 50% died. Then who was in power, let's remember? At that moment, the Minister of Health, we were 35 on the list of European countries, not the EU. Now in 2019, I believe we've made progress, I think we've been 18, correct me if I'm wrong. Of these, we have been past 14 EU countries at the quality of health, not by our estimates, but by the estimates of international organisations that have seen new clinical centres, new equipment, a new model of health behaviour, etc., how many innovative medicines we are. Here's an example, they had 21 members of the RFO Management Board. We meet all those needs with seven. We had 21 members on the Supervisory Board, all mine to mine, mine to my own, sorry, and we ended it with seven. And here I was the subject of assault, like this doctor will treat you, and so on, although at the board of directors of RFZO, the minister knows that none of the health care providers who are employed can be a member of the board of directors. But it wasn't enough for them to attack me. But speaking of this epidemic, let's compare. So they had a swine flu mortality rate of over 2%, laboratoryly tested. A billion people in the world got hurt, 18,000 died. So in the world it was 0.02%, and in Serbia it was 2%. Do you know how many times that is? A thousand times, huh? Approximately 2% to 0.2%, a hundred times higher mortality was the least in Serbia than it was in the world. More than three million people died in the world today, 7.5% died. In Serbia, unfortunately, there have been fatalities and this mortality is now 2.1%, and it was below two, about two. So in Serbia, mortality is three-and-a-half times smaller and today we are being jumped on and on the health system by those who during the outbreak that was scheduled for the vaccine had 100 times more mortality than in the world. They talk about countries in the region, when you compare Slovenia, there are twice as many as one million people in Slovenia. It's a serious country of the former SFRY. It has twice as much mortality as it is in Serbia. But when we take Europe, Europe has, some European countries have 12 to 17% mortality, which is eight times what it is in Serbia. And today some people are attacking us, but it says -- I don't know, in the Balkans is this, that. Do they forget that Switzerland was not only in Switzerland, but part of Switzerland was also in Serbia. We didn't just have a part of Switzerland, part of Austria, we had a part of Italy. We had Italy in a kid who came here, our citizens who can come here with every right. We had a part of France, we had a part of Belgium, where there was mortality, I don't know, if it wasn't 20%, we had a part of Great Britain, we all sent planes to get those people to be here. So, the success of the country is a team larger than infectious diseases, which we had everything that Europe had individually, we had collectively in Serbia. We've come to an end. I feel sorry for all the dead, especially Mr Blazic, who was an extremely pleasant person and I was a great friend when he was a MP, and during his time as State Secretary, when we had time to see each other. I still can't accept that such a small virus could have killed such a wonderful person, but that virus knocks down nuclear forces, members of the Security Council, etc. Serbia has made an immeasurable success, not regretting the means to save lives, but has been attacked all the time – and why you have imprisoned people, and why you let them go, etc. I don't think Serbia has anything to be ashamed of about infectious diseases. We're sorry for everyone who died, but we have to admit that we must have saved a hundred times as many people. Imagine that mortality was 17%. In countries where mortality was 15, 17, 12, 13, 14% you do not have such an attack on authority, on doctors, on experts, etc. as you have in Serbia. Serbia is a strange country. Serbia is the country where Serbs prefer to face themselves most, and this was a unique opportunity for several unfortunate people to try to challenge a conflict between Serbs and Serbs. As for the election, all the electoral conditions we inherited, we haven't changed one. We changed them to demands better, not worse. During 2012, we did not have "Today", or "Blic", or "Time", or "Nin", or "N1", or "New S". We dreamed of registering opposition television. They have two that are not registered in this country, but in Luxembourg, which are not responding, nor can they respond, because they are not registered here, for what they are. We have journalists who deal with misinformation, there are millions of portals, there are millions of social networks, all our political opponents have registered some portals, almost all of them, and they represent themselves as journalists, and journalism has become an amnesty of any other responsibility. We have REM, which is mute. What you've newly chosen, I've been against. As REM behaves, that's probably what my colleague Djukanovic will say. I call on the citizens to go to the polls. The state is a community of people, citizens who have created an unwritten social contract, whether so, Mr. Martinovic, once created a state or are now maintaining it. It's not a private state government, it's a community of people. Not everyone can make a road, highway, can't make a local road, can't treat themselves, can't everyone, Minister, can't do public work, local, regional, republican. Therefore, the elections are an opportunity for all citizens who want to choose who will manage public authority and public authority, who will exercise public authority, who will do all this. The choices are an opportunity, this is another improvement, to go to the polls, and even if they knew, it's not our fault for their weak results, it's their own. Only in the past few years, the Democratic Party has dropped nine political organisations. If they were all unique, I say they'd have 20%, with everyone else they'd have 30% in the election, which would be a serious force. They don't expect me to unite them or be united by someone in power. Why would they do that to me? Why doesn't Tanya Fajon see it? Why doesn't he see these violent attempts, etc? She became the leader of the political organisation, she acts as an opposition leader, as their authorised representative, etc. There's nothing wrong with her. She acts in Serbia sometimes as an occupation deputy. When we're in meetings, she knows Mr. Orlic, she knows the gentlemen who participated, she's pleased. As soon as he goes on N1 television, there is no democracy in Serbia. The degree of democracy, Mrs. Fajon, is estimated, here, there are minorities here, by the degree of rights enjoyed by minorities in that country. In Serbia 4,033 Slovenes have national councils in Serbia, have minority rights. Over 40,000 Serbs, which is 0.06 per cent, 30 times more Serbs in Slovenia do not have minority rights. I will not insult the Roma, but the Serbs have even less rights than the Roma. If democracy, what Europe is saying, and we all accept that democracy is assessed by the degree of human and minority rights that have minorities, then I ask her – what country is more democratic, Serbia or Slovenia? But since it failed in Slovenia, it is trying to edit Serbia. The election is an opportunity for everyone to go to the polls and vote. No one's gonna stop anyone. They say, "I don't know, now you want elections, now they want to lock people up, there's no choice, and before that they've talked about -- why don't you let people go?" They would like to extend the elections, to make the country exhausted, etc., if they came to power without a choice, which is neither legal nor legitimate. They can complain as much as they want. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He didn't give a horse. Now people wouldn't give their bike easy, let alone the authorities they are. The election is an opportunity to go to the polls and vote. Not those who vote, but those who do not vote, who do not exercise their right to vote and their right to vote. That's why if they don't bring down power, they're seriously threatened if they're unique. But they won't achieve anything by force. The patriarch Paul said: “Let us guard against the inhumans, and let us be moreware that we do not become inhumans. ” I am ready to turn this great priest Bosko Obradovic, I don't know what the Serbian Church thinks more of him, he was probably spiritual enough, enough believers while he took money from the church, while he took 5,000 euros from the Triad icon, which is why people call him Bosko left-handed. Probably when Scott left that we had an idiot left. So, I don't know what the church thinks about it, but I will always respect the words of Patriarch Paul. He also said: “Keep your enemies safe and pray for them, for they do not know what they are doing. ” Nothing else needs to be added to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74002	Thank you. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) We're moving to the order in the list. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74003	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and if some of them have been unkind about it today, it will still be that everything that we're talking about here today, that every discussion was exactly in line with the subject, because we all, who came here this morning in this room intending to talk about the proposed laws, I guess we came to talk about the subject. And the topic is democracy, and the topic is the possibility that we can provide something more, not ourselves, but in accordance with the conditions that apply today, above all, to others, and to take care of how much we do in the interest of citizens, which is the basic things that made us go to the session here this morning, to talk about democracy, and to those who went to this building, but not to get into the session, but to go wild. I think that gang of fascists who this morning made that pir in front of the main entrance and they seem to have decided to tell all of Serbia what they have to say on the topic of democracy in this country as they see it and how they experience it. We have come to talk about proposals, to regulate the law, to regulate the possibility that when they prepare to go to elections, those who have not yet provided for the signature of support, that they can do so in a way, so that we can apply all the measures that you have taken to protect people's health. So that not only must not strictly notaries, but also local self-governments be able to verify signatures, and only with the aim of doing so in a way that citizens are satisfied, so that even those who have failed to organise themselves directly after calling the elections and then collect the signatures. Today, they don't have to worry about whether the people who support them will respond or they'll have to worry about how it's going to be organised, so that all of this can be arranged and that, of course, everyone is just happy if they talk about whether we care about the best spirit of democracy and the need to cultivate it in this country. And what they've done and completely ruined every story about the good, smart things that we in this country, in this assembly, we're dealing with, the lowlifes, the fascists the most dirty ones who came to the National Assembly here to do what to do, to attack the MPs, not to let the MPs go into the session, to do their job, to physically endanger people, to beat people, to torture them, to throw them on the floor, to kick them on that floor, and to rip them off. Falangists of Bosko Obradovica, these Ljoticians, these courtesans who are the task force of the Alliance for Serbia and Dragan Dilas, they did it and that we speak openly of them and no one else, and the only ones who do it in this country all the time, are them and no one else. You saw today a picture of the clothes of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, photographed various televisions as he was dressed today, entered the House of the National Assembly when they missed him through their hands, those poor, fascists the most common, but did not want to show, allegedly they did not see, they pretended not to have seen what Marijan Risticevic looked like, not just his clothes. This is Marijan Risticevic, photographed this morning when he entered the O.R. with his head, and what you see on the left, right there in the area where there's a bandage now, that's blood, that's the blood of ladies and gentlemen. These are the consequences of that savagery. It wasn't enough for only a man to rip his clothes off, spit and belittle himself, kick himself, knock himself down on the floor, don't stop until they saw her head bleed out, probably wouldn't have been if other people hadn't interfered. Those who are constantly trying to cause bloodshed in this country, here, as they have shown us today what they think about democracy, about human rights, about any standard that they're going to tell you again tomorrow, what nonsense they don't believe in and the mind to salt. Bosko Obradovic himself, you have him on tape of all the media who showed what was going on. He beat up the MP and made this blood. This Bosko Obradovic, here to see him here, what he looks like and with whom he was in society, with Dragan Gilas last night, literally outside the Serbian presidency, when they were also savaged together, they were breaking the fence and trying to break through to the presidency building, here they are hugged. This morning, he did what he did last night or this morning completely whatever this second one heard was most important to do today, that it was their most important common message for all of Serbia. Is that democracy? Are those human rights? Is that the famous freedom they don't take out of their mouths? Is that their message that political life in this country will be guided if they ask themselves? Is that their message to every citizen of this country? Every citizen in the country, how will they get away with it if they don't like it? And what if it's not fascism? And what's there to fight and make anyone angry when that word is used for this kind of behavior? That word here is perfectly appropriate. Did you see anyone working in any civilized country? Did you see anyone say this is a relic of democracy? No, these things are clearly related either to Nazi Germany or to that Ustasha regime in Croatia. And there's nothing to do with democracy. I'm surprised some of them rebelled today. It's just that we're gonna pretend this is okay and it's nice. We want to keep muttering like a lot of people do, and all these media people who didn't want these pictures to show up at what's going on. Well, then what are we going to expect together tomorrow? I am surprised that some today spoke in the congregation and did not find a single word of condemnation to say on this subject accordingly. And in this room, those of you who fought at press conferences, all the honors of those who did it, but those who didn't, you don't know where you live, you don't know which building you came into, you don't know what's going on around you. Those who weren't and the journalists who were standing in front of them didn't ask them anything. Is that normal for you people? Is that normal? Is it necessary in this country that someone gets hurt so anything happens or that nothing happens again, that you pretend it's all beautiful, wonderful, and normal? And it's no accident, because it can't, you know, every day of the week, send the same message over and over again that the same violence is being promoted, that it's trying to cause a conflict between people, that it's calling for blood to spill, and it's all gonna be an accident. How can it be by chance when the same fascists of the Alliance for Serbia are hanging the gallows in the Terrace, and then how many days or weeks go by, and the same ones with the motor saws are in RTS. Well, not a day goes by, the same one tries to break into the Serbian presidency building, so on every one of these occasions they physically attack a police officer, physically attack people who do nothing to them, haven't, with whom they haven't exchanged one word in their lives. They didn't get a chance to get angry at them at all, that these insults, they're not interested in them, so they're throwing bottles, so they're trying to step on trucks, so they're coming here to get wild, and here to kick the cops a little bit while they're immature, they're blowing on whistles, they're doing circuses, but still there's a little bit of beating to make, so they come back to the MP this morning to raise their hands together, and they're also boasting, and they're enjoying it. Here, I see now on these social networks, you just don't know who's gonna hit who better on the back with the words – well, it's good for you to show them. Whether Janko Bosko or Bosko Sergei or Sergei these two. They say, "Well done, so will we. A decent man, a reasonable man, can't imagine, let alone support it, let alone applaud it and say, "Well, you have done well, and so will I only come tomorrow. Nothing here, absolutely nothing by chance. How can it be an accident? Yes, yesterday, in these famous tycoon Sundays, they had a message -- to tear down power on the street. Here, this Bosko Obradovic, the one who took a nice picture with Dragan Gilas last night while they were going wild in front of the presidency. He also took a picture for the newspaper and put a big title in large letters – to tear down power on the street. And in the second tycoon weekly, the same message, again by chance, “Break power on the street”, another extremist – the same message. Whatever these movements are called, the parties, whatever they are, the message is always the same, the faces may be different but the principle of the same – destroying, destroying, physically, in the street the power to kidnap, to break people's heads, to burn the congregation, to level everything with the earth just to reach power. Did you see if any of them were worried? Did you happen to see that Dragan Gilas invited the cameraman to record a sad message like that on three or four-now with all the crying in the lyrics? Well, it's not. You know why? Nothing shakes him there. What would shake him when they're together all the time while all this is done? Which would shake him when he's not ashamed of it, he's not disgusted, and he's not grieving about it, but he's obviously supporting it, people. This is their joint misdemeanor. How many tears did they shed because they hurt someone else, hurt, break their heads? What would they worry about, when they do it together and very consciously, perfiduously, know exactly what they're doing. An accident to challenge here would seem to be their only success and something they'd have, I guess, together to celebrate. Speaking of these tycoon weeklys, they say to a genius yesterday, that's when they hear a song saying Dragan Gilas is a thief, they say to a genius -- it's an attempted murder. Just so you understand, it's an attempted murder. How many of them do you think next week in their regular editions are going to say that hitting on the head of the MP was thrown on the floor while there was an attempted murder? He won't do any of them. Here, let me tell you right now, none of them will. Because it's also an indicator of the system of values, what can't, first of all, who can't, who can't have fascism the most common, and fascism the most dirty, most disgusting, will be silent, will be relativated by those among them who are braver, you know, more heroic, they will also support openly, and it will be the only relationship we have with this phenomenon all the time. If they are to complain again, to write letters to these across the European Union, whether in the European Parliament or elsewhere, it is completely irrelevant to them, but necessarily, to send the videos, their own videos from this morning, to praise the heroes. Let them send, fascists the most common, videos showing them savageling in front of the National Assembly, kicking other people's heads. Let them show them photographs of those people who were kicking after that bleeding, and then ask for support and let them say as they now write to them in those letters - come to Serbia to support us. Don't be stupid anymore, you're not asking them to come to you to do something to move an election date and break the Constitution, of course, and first of all, you're interested in sitting in power. How? What means? Here, this one. But give them credit. And you from the European Union or wherever, here, people, you see all of this, well, since these guys are asking you so nicely to give someone your opinion on everything, let's find out accordingly that you're giving your opinion on these very issues. Come on, don't be too hard to say if you're judging? We expect, of course, all of you to condemn fascist savagery in Serbia. Are you going to call the right name and say who are you who are, the kind of disgusting beer in this country, trying to establish as something wonderful and normal? Come on, call them names and tell them who they are. We expect that's not difficult for you. In your countries, it would certainly not be difficult for you to condemn it and say it—here, they behave as fascists. We're on the date when we should all remember the currents of the fight against fascism together. Well, come on, at least remember that opportunity. Well, when they call you, they write you letters, to look back on the political situation in Serbia, look back. Do them, look back, and tell them how you feel about fascist savagery anywhere in the world, anywhere in Europe, and in this Serbia, if you care about Serbia. What do these geniuses say in their letters here that they throw under the feet of a national flag, kick down the cops, knock them down the stairs of the Assembly entrance of the People's Messengers, and then kick them from above until the blood comes out of their heads? They say -- no, no, no, the government here is dictatorial. They say -- no, no, the government here is autocratic, despotic, Caesarist. They say -- that power is made in this country by crystal nights with torches. Imagine the construction with the torches of the crystal night? We asked them, those fascists most common, who today were able to put this completely inconceivable to a normal man at the entrance to the National Assembly, and did they give your torches, what torches? They asked them, did the real ones not understand or didn't hear? Are these your torches? With these torches of yours? So, this is you, this is the head of the Alliance for Serbia's committee group in the Belgrade City Assembly, asking to boast that his people are burning torches while they're pounding pots. Do you mean this crystal night? Is that what liars and hypocrites are all about? And while people are trying to do something to make it good for everyone, and even if you can't change our interest to find it in that story, so in order to make it possible for those who want to go to elections, to be able to collect signatures of support, so that it can be done so that the process instills trust in their voters and sympathisers, there's no interest in us, we're all done on this subject, but we all agreed together when the political parties' dialogue was organised with the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, those who want to go to elections can count on us to make it possible this way in the best and safest way. There's no interest in any of this. You don't let these people do their job normally again, you don't let them make it easy for others, and we did it not once, but God knows how many times, in the last few months alone. Did it mean anything to us to a reduced census? Everyone knows it's not. It is quite a team of others and we have no problem with saying – well, yes, we are fighting for more democracy, for the better representativeness of parliament after these elections. As you can see, we do not find it difficult to deal with the conditions in which all of this will be prepared, done, done, all of this is done properly, and you say all of this when all the other lies have failed, when no other man in Serbia believes you for all the nonsense you say on the subject of choice – Not now. In fact, it won't be safe for health. It will not be safe on 21 June to vote in well-organised conditions in Serbia. And what you're saying is, you think it's safe that on May 7th in several hundred you are gathered at a mass rally with all the measures of protection, there are no masks on your face here, only to be admired in front of the Serbian presidency, the same occasion, when fascist Obradovic, this Latvian who made this mess here this morning, and his boss, Gilas, took pictures as nice as I showed you earlier. Now, that's all nice, safe, and it's in line with the best standards of health protection, and the election isn't. So, all the lie itself, all the hypocrisy and it's not something anyone in this country couldn't stand, we're used to it, but stop at it once, just can't get used to it, it can't be normal. Stop putting other people at risk. What does that look like? How far does that lead? And that something so terrible happens, such as throwing a hand grenade into a common man's yard, a local official of the Serbian Progressive Party in the Vozdovac municipality, in the yard of the house, which only luck doesn't explode and that what, no one is interested again? That it is not even news to those who write such wonderful messages and interviews and who do not think of a single small question to question these idols, and their great fighters for democracy and freedom with their broken heads, others, of course, that none of them remember to pay attention. Why? Because it happened to someone who belongs politically to the Serbian advanced stop and follows Alexander Vukic's political vision. That way, absolutely anything can happen. Our relationship with democracy, as some here today have asked and put it as a topic, is that we never respond to these things in the same way. I saw that many were nervous and asked – why is this suffering? Are we going to react? No, ladies and gentlemen, we don't really have to do this. Because those who do not wish well for this country are exactly hoping for such a reaction on your part. They want a conflict. They want bloodshed and you're absolutely clear from what they're doing that's their main goal. You don't have to fight back that way. We need democracy in this country to guard. We need to fight for these democracies to be only more than they have now, significantly more and always trying to work to create, to make something better than it was before. Only better, not worse, both democracy and living conditions, so economics, so economics, so standard of living, such an opportunity for all the people in this country to be better for them tomorrow than today, and certainly more drastically than yesterday for all the people in this country, of course, primarily for the children of Serbia. You know what, if it bothers them that it is not only a policy defined by Alexander Vucic, but it bothers them that it is a policy that shows results, which wins and therefore has a convincing support for Serbian citizens in this way that they want to just physically destroy and kill, so that citizens understand and, you know, that support to Alexander Vukic, SNS, the development and preservation of democracy and the care for the future of our children will not because of your violence, because of your attempts to destroy them being smaller. It can only be bigger over time, only stronger. Whoever doesn't understand it today will never understand anything, but certainly a strong, good loud, convincing response from the people to get already on June 21st. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74004	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74005	Thank you, Chairman. In front of the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbia Party and the election coalition of the United Democratic Serbia in the upcoming parliamentary elections, at the beginning, unfortunately, I cannot look back briefly on this morning's violence in front of the assembly. I will do this later, and I have no doubt that the EU that was mentioned earlier, just like all other international factors committed to democracy, will condemn everyone and everyone's violence, wherever and whenever it happens in political life, because violence is not politics. Violence is violence. As for the proposed amendments to the Electoral Law, the Modern Serbia Party and the United Democratic Serbia coalition see them as one of facilitating electoral conditions in terms of facilitating certain electoral actions that our electoral coalition has already carried out in an earlier, more difficult way, but it is obviously necessary to adapt electoral actions to epidemiological circumstances, and the legitimacy of the end-of-election process is again the same for those who otherwise judge about the legitimacy and recognition of the outcome of the elections in Serbia, which are primarily the EU and the international community. But this points to the obvious need for the permanent improvement of the electoral system in Serbia and the obvious need for the continuation of that pre-election dialogue, which, with the EU intervening and, above all, has been led directly into several rounds before the start of this election campaign, which has been interrupted over the past 50 days during the state of emergency. Of course, it's another change of election rules during the election year, now in the election campaign itself, but it's kind of a continuation of bad practice that we change election rules in election years. We've had that practice for the past 30 years. I have already mentioned once the analyses that certain professors of law have done when they found that we have changed election rules too often in election years and thus all authorities show a lack of capacity and competence of political will to build a system, even if only the electoral system as one part of the overall political system. Both our political system and its electoral part have many shortcomings. The public has a lot of controversy about it. We hear from the public suggestions that citizens want to know who they vote for and choose individuals, not candidates on party or coalition lists. In front of the United Democratic Serbia and its electoral coalition, I call on citizens to come to our coalition site - European Serbia.rs and there will know exactly who they are voting for, because we biographies of our candidates are proud to publish, both labour and political credibility. At the end of the line, lists of candidates are publicly available on the RIK site, including at the polls themselves. Our public says very much – we want MPs who cannot be disciplined by the party, but also the public says – we want because of flyers that the mandates belong to the parties, not to the MPs. I am one of the MPs whom the party could not discipline, because I have insisted on the policies in which I received the mandate, the policies I represented in 2016 and today, which are the policies of civil, secular, modern European Serbia, in the west quickly and strongly integrated in the EU and our common European house and family of developed countries. On the other hand, citizens sometimes say – we want a majority electoral system, not proportional. But they predict, let's say, that the majority electoral system helps the large ones to become even bigger and that it is cologially called – the winner takes everything. Under such a system, the conversion of support and the percentage of votes to the percentage of the mandate always comes in favour of the electoral winner, and he gets much more mandates than he gets the percentage of the vote. There are still many topics in our electoral system that need to be discussed, which is also a policy of funding political activities, a policy of donation to political parties. Unfortunately, we do not have a culture of large numbers of small, small donations by citizens to political parties whose work they support. Bernie Sanders, one of the US presidential candidates, managed to collect two hours after publishing his candidacy via the internet for two, two, and a half million dollars in large numbers of small small donations from citizens. We have such a thing, unfortunately, that is unimaginable, and we all need to ask ourselves together why there is no such kind of trust in our political representatives, even if they are not prepared in a large number of, two, five or ten euros to finance their work by their political representatives. So democracy and its processes serve to channel conflicts in society and solve them properly with their procedures and rules. When democracy is gone and its processes are suspended, when the mocking rule of rights in democratic processes, then dissatisfaction in society grows and the differences deepen and pressure in the pot rises and threatens to spread uncontrollably as violence on the streets. Of course, whoever withdraws first after violence is responsible for political and all other consequences, but it should not be forgotten that other types of violence exist other than physical violence, such as verbal violence, legal violence, the inequality of citizens before the law as a form of legal violence, etc. The government is, above all, responsible for fostering democracy and its procedures, because it has a majority that allows time-consuming amendments to electoral laws, sublegal acts, rules of conduct, so that the democratic system in the state will permanently correct and allow it to better channel dissatisfactions and differences in society. It's a shame that we're too late and only on pressure from Brussels last year we started to correct our democracy and defend the democratic freedoms that we had so hard to acquire during the 1990s and beyond. I remind you that twice then we have defended the election results – 1996 and 1997 and 2000, and we will always do so, because democracy always wins sooner or later. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74006	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74007	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not going to say this is a farewell speech anymore, because we can't say goodbye, so we'll see if we can see each other more times until the end of our call. But what we've gathered for now has a direct cause and, of course, there are some implications that are broader political, so I'm going to talk about these concrete amendments, as well as the whole political context in which we are and which, in my opinion, is not good, and in which, unfortunately, these incidents, this one today, as well as everything we're looking at, not only in this Assembly, but in this society the last weeks or the last months. I don't expect, of course, to agree on that, but I think it's very important to stress that this is the place where these differences should be presented, or the best place, or the least bad place. The second place should be equally good for public services, also for dealing with these differences, and immediately after it or after it and studies with the national frequency. It doesn't happen for different reasons. When dialogue, debate, and controversy do not lead where they should be led, they are led in inadequate ways and in inadequate places. And far from that, not to have a misunderstanding here, not to approve, but to condemn every act of violence, regardless of whose side it came from, and not just rhetorically, I think it's politically bad. So, not only is he convicted as a bully and as a violence, but it's also politically bad. Bad even for the option that I belong in a broader sense, bad for the whole society and bad for the message. But, like tango and love, it takes two to fight, and it takes two to fight. It's not worth trying to present here someone like Mother Teresa, righteous John or some unfortunate and innocent victim of hooligan violence. You can declare it in this room or in this relationship the power to define things, but we all know that's not the case. Which, I say, I think the biggest loser is the one who pulls the force. As counterpart Đuric said a little while, he came out, he could get the right to a replica but he's not there, there are different forms of violence and they're all bad and dangerous. There's verbal violence, there's mental violence, there's political violence, there's legal violence, and all of them need to be judged. They are often associated with these different types of violence. I fight within the limits of my abilities against each of these species. I'm not sure that sometimes some of these types of violence didn't have the support of the majority in this home and in this society. It's dangerous to play with fire and it's usually revenge and sooner or later return to whoever's playing with that fire. After all, politically, I only have damage to these events, and not only me, but also those who are in a similar position to me, because those words are lost somewhere in the wind, in the smoke of these troubled passions, either really, naturally, be artificially encouraged and upset, and so mine, I'm not talking about today, today, a few days ago, two days ago, discussion, principled, principled, I would say, good and important, remains completely in the third, fifth plan, of course, of course, of the incident that this session began the other day. So it will be with this, and not only mine, but also many other discussions. When we take a closer look, the biggest losers in such situations are those who appeal to reason, to compromise, to agreement, which is usually seen as a sign of weakness. It's a bad aspect of our political culture, or at least lately a dominant mental, political, socio-psychological model, where you look at who's who, of course, not only physically but also physically, and certainly rhetorically, nabo in some show, in some studio, who's more glued to and who's more persistently talked to, parallel to his conversationalist so that he couldn't hear himself. This becomes a criterion for the success of the debate and the success of the controversy. What I've been saying, of course, is about this particular situation and the incidents, but it's important and it's about what's waiting for us, and which is why these amendments of the law are submitted. They're not even in the O.R., and certainly those who look at us no longer know exactly what this is for, why these laws are passed, or these amendments to the law. It's about trying to make it easier for the Coronavirus situation to collect some signatures, and now, instead of notaries alone, others can, the authorities of the local administration, the state administration, can collect or verify those signatures. It is a small step in the right direction, but completely inadequate seriousness of the problem that we have and that I was talking about the other day and now I want to draw attention to. So, that's, I won't say mint tea when it comes to our political process and recovery, or trying to recover our political process, because I'd be unfair to tea from our mother's soul. What I'm saying is that these measures that are now being proposed make it easier to verify the signature, or what we've already passed in the constitutional time, before this epidemic was adopted, is also the kind of palitative measure that needs to be used to show that it is facilitating and democratisation of the political electoral process, and essentially nothing changes. If she really had the intention to democratisation the political process, even before this epidemic, and this after the epidemic, I will speak specifically in the follow-up, then for the beginning, she would pay attention to, say, my last submitted amendment, two months or more than two months ago, or now, where I say that when the censorship is down from 5% to 3%, it is reportedly due to the democratisation of the political process and better political representation in parliament, although some can interpret it to perhaps transfer some of the desired lists through censorship, but anyway, if it does, then a much greater contribution to the democratisation of the electoral process was actually to reduce then and the number of mandatory signatures that are being collected for these lists, especially now, in these epidemiological conditions and mental-psychological conditions and the shock that exists in the Serbian citizens, and now, after the suspension of the emergency state. Like I said the other day, it's not a basketball game, so if you had a 60-second time-out or 60-day time-out, then you could continue the game where you left off, a little bit more rested and more ready. No, it was a difficult, serious temptation for the whole society, for all citizens, for state institutions and structures, who passed that exam, more or less successfully, some more successful, some less successful, but still. So there are consequences of mental behavior in people, in the minds of people, in how they greet each other, to how they socialise or how they walk, minority, street, let alone the consequences of electoral behavior, political awareness and political behaviour of citizens. Now we pretend it didn't happen. Be careful what the main change is that we are gathered here, that not only must not only the notary, the public notary, but that others can verify the signatures, so it will, as a matter of fact, reduce the crowd and make it easier for those who collect the signatures and want to go to elections. Like I said, before this epidemic, I asked my colleagues, but they gave me a bad answer. Give me countries in the world, not in the world, Europe, but it can be wider, you don't have to name India or anything like that, but even there isn't, where you need 10,000 signatures for the list, any, even minority, majority, to go to elections. It's not like that in France. In Russia, one great Russia is not, I am talking about parliamentary elections. In most of the countries around us, it's not like that. You might find one or two examples or two exceptions on the fingers of one hand. I'm not sure, since they're specific cases. So it's nowhere to be found, and it's clear what it's for. Now, at the end of this term, or at the end of that term, to say openly – it serves to preserve a part-departmental system that has existed here for years, which is not the consequence, of course, nor the invention of your authority, but you, I would say, perfected it, or this power has perfected it and led to perfection, and in some ways corresponds to everyone or almost all the actors around the table. It's a principle that actually, especially now in terms of these, I say, pandemics and these psychosiss that have remained in society, essentially without help... That's what he was talking about and some of the predecessors were saying, they didn't want to name it, so, of course, neither will I. In terms of this, right now in society, after the epidemic, and even before, just three, roughly, groups of political maybe can collect the signature on their own. Everyone else, therefore, can't or can't do it with a blessing, bigger or smaller, with the assistance of the authorities and it's a public secret and everybody knows it. This is how they extract from the structure, the governing structure, so it was somewhat similar before, I admit, making it easier to work and somehow controlling the entry of political actors into orbit politically. Professor Ševarlic, two days ago, I don't know exactly, no, actually before this epidemic he proposed and spoke about why he did not allow, for example, prominent individuals, public figures to make a list of three or five or independently to run and collect a certain number of signatures proportionally smaller than the one who submits a list of 250 names. It cannot be equal to the conditions for the election of a large, ruling party who has 250 candidates and claims to win 150 or, I don't know, 200 seats and, let's say, to Professor Ševarlic, I only refer to him as an example, or another, third, who wants to appear on his own with some programme and offer citizens his ideas. He should not have a relief in terms of how many votes he should receive, it is known how much about the mandate, depending on how much turnout it takes for one term, let it be a censorship, after all, although it is a little bad to be the same for him and for someone else, but it is really absurd and pointless that he must submit 10,000 signatures in order to appear, for example, an independent candidate in the elections. They're all, and you, Mr. Ruzic, you know that, old dilemmas and the pains of our political system, but it's all pushed under the carpet, part of it so it doesn't wave, and part of it because the authorities never really respond. It just needs to be said openly. Not to say, too, not about public secrecy, but this is no longer a secret anymore, that in most local self-government, I am not now talking about Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis or a few of the largest cities, in most, therefore, the towns of Serbia, or, in particular, the municipalities, in fact two-thirds of voters, two-thirds of those listed, sometimes more than that, must appear as signatories of the list. Sometimes there are more signatures or as many signatures as there are voters to make these candidates appear. So that absurd, which otherwise requires serious re-examination, we can't do it now, that kind of change, but we can at least adopt the proposal. It doesn't have to be like my proposal, one of the ruling majority MPs or the ruling parliamentary group can propose that kind of change. When the census dropped from 5% to 3%, it reduced the number of mandatory signatures by 40%. So, not at 10,000, but at 6,000. For local elections not 30 signatures per candidate for the local councilman, but then proportionally 60% less, that would be 18, then 18 signatures per councilman. I'm saying, it's really absurd, and everybody knows it, especially in these smaller environments, when I say smaller, I don't mean very small, but just, well, in one of the Smeder's, it means, serious cities, Somboru, wherever you want. In order for the signatures to be collected and validally submit the lists to practically the entire electoral body, it is necessary to sign. That, of course, opens up space, a wide field of machinations and manipulation of all kinds. What's the point and what I'm trying to say in these few minutes is my renewed proposal, which I'm telling you now, I told you, and that's how I ended up last time my exposure. Of course life can't stop, but there are still too many fresh traumas, and that's what epidemiologists say, after all, and experts and these members of the professional team and the government of Serbia whose views are generally called upon by the authorities and sometimes being blocked, say that by the end of June, normalisation or at least the second half of June, Mr. Loncar. I have statements here, if there is a chance to exchange a replica, from Professor Kon to Professor Nestorovic. So, prominent members of the expert team warn that there will be no weddings, there will be no celebrations, there will be no theatres, and you expect people to go out and vote like nothing happened, all on the key. It's not easy to even close on a key, and especially you can't put it on a button, on a key, to activate the bells now at once, not only to come to vote, but to get involved in political life at all. I know things have to go back to normal. Give me some time to get things back to normal. I'm saying, it's not a time-out, it's not a basketball game. After all, you all know and we know, even as voters, what our polling stations look like. They're mostly classrooms of some schools in the interior, anyway, in these big cities or something. These are the rooms where, when it comes to... Just watch how many lists there will be and how many observers ahead of those lists, plus official members of the election commissions. So there are over 20, at least 20, often more people. It's being printed like a hive, and now it's supposed to defil all day, and voters, with masks, no masks, etc. So it's quite clear that it's one specific, not to say extraordinary, situation in which even those who want to go to elections won't get out. So, not because they listen to boycotters, but as we know, I was against boycotts and now I don't want a boycott. I want to go to elections, both as a citizen and as a political entity, if possible. In these circumstances, I'm uncomfortable, as I've already said, and to go out and ask someone else out to vote for me or someone I, for example, support. I just don't dare. That's why I think, and you know the lawyers among you know, you're going to say that now as we can't because of constitutional and legal deadlines, but because of the state of emergency we're out of constitutional and legal deadline... On June 3rd, the term of office of this assembly expires, however, it will not be possible to complete the electoral actions and to establish a new parliament before the term of office of this parliament expires. We've adopted various lex specialties during this term of office, and I think it would be quite logical, established and not any scandal that some lex specialise simply gives people, citizens, and some political subjects a deadline for some impression, for someone to return to such a normal. Lastly, since it was an argument by some colleagues from the ruling majority, unofficially, they say – well, not but can return the epidemic to autumn. I suppose that's what you're going to say, Mr. Minister, so I'll rephrase it to you in advance, Professor. Nestorovica, who said that your autumn months are the least dangerous, because usually the coronary viruses, this is a literal quote, appear somewhere from December to March, April. It's a deadline when you might be able to get back to some form. It's much more dangerous now than the duration of the virus's relapse than any major return in September or October. So my proposal is that instead of May 11th, the other day we had, to change, again on the government's initiative, there is a knife and cake in your hands, to have, not just all the actors or more actors in the elections, but to have a more regular atmosphere in these elections, political and medical regulation. At this point, I think it's threatening the danger that neither medical, health, is completely regular and clean, but as politically regular as it is, we know best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74008	The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74009	Dear Mr. Vukadinovic, I tried to understand what you wanted to say, and I tried in every way, but I couldn't catch that line that you really stood up for, but I really tried to understand it. I'm glad you mentioned Dr. Con and our other experts, and I want to remind both you and the other MPs, who are here, and to ask you for the rule that exists, which is that the new mask on our face when we're here, and that's the rule that applies in the Assembly and which should be respected, because we're in charge of doing that. Among other things, here we are changing these legal provisions regarding penalties and all that is necessary. Someone can be irresponsible, not to take care of themselves, it's perfectly allowed, but it has to be responsible for others. I'd ask the authorities to do their job. As for your concerns about June 21st or what's going to happen in June, I haven't seen your concerns, the much greater the risk was, say, last night, I don't know, a few hundred people without any masks, with nothing, that was there. There was a greater risk of someone getting sick, of being transferred, than when you create a process and take all measures of protection. I assure you, as well as all citizens of Serbia, that we are one serious country, serious people, which we have proven to be the result that we have achieved with this Coronavirus, so we will move on. At no point will we do anything to endanger the health and lives of our citizens, our people. So much, I can also guarantee you that it's our first place, and then all the other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74010	Right to the replica, MP Miladin Ševarlic, based on Mr Vukadinovic's discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74011	Thank you very much. I really don't think the election should be organised as long as we have an emergency health measure. - The SNS emissary throws it away. Leave it alone, it's the least of the problems, don't worry about me. I'm looking at the Health Ministry website, Mr. Minister, information on the new Coronavirus, March 15, 2020, 46 confirmed Kovid cases of 268 respondents who met the case definitions. How many cases do we have today? Unfortunately, even deaths, and we don't have a state of emergency, and we're continuing political activity probably after making decisions at this session? Think about it one more time, given all the stress, including panic, which many citizens have survived for 40 days and change of days in home isolation. It's not just a matter of collecting signatures. The electoral system in Serbia is subordinated to the party's tops, not even to the parties, because party summits determine who will be on the list and who will get a place on the list. Citizens do not have the opportunity to propose any of their candidates, exempt, possibly, lists representing or assembling associations of citizens. Furthermore, citizens do not have the opportunity to run if they do not approve of any party leadership. So that's why we have a situation like this, parties act like cheerleading groups in stadiums, and that's why we have this situation and confrontations on the street and everything. We need a council, not a unity, not a disunity. Here I've heard in four years 90% of the time has been spent on criticism, or let's vulgarly express myself for the first time in this assembly, to spit on each other...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74012	I thank my colleague Shevarlic. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74013	Thank you. I took off the mask before I spoke for a moment, Mr. Loncar, so I respect whatever I think about these measures, I respect them, but I must say, with all due respect to these doctors and professions, the profession was too often contradictory, as I would say, statements. I respect that things change, that some things didn't know, and I don't want to stamp anyone, but it's a little indicative that, now I don't have time in two minutes, last time I talked about it, and some other colleagues, that somehow she escalated, I speak and so officially, this drama around Corona, and a seductive state, after the election was called, and after the ruling parties handed over their election papers. Then the process stopped, and then we said it was dramatic, thousands dead, except it wasn't tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands threatening to be, and then, when it was the last train and the last hour, to finish the election process before the summer, then all of a sudden, the numbers ignored, or the fact, there are a lot of new cases, there are, like, a few weeks back, not to say a month, two days. The number and the weight of the cases, I figured that out. The percentage is lower than the tested. But what I'm saying is, it's kind of weird to seduce a state of emergency and end it just when it's somehow appropriate for the authorities. Regardless of that, I hope you understand, I don't think there are any political or health reasons, or sufficient arguments to hold the elections on June 21st, and I think it would be directed for political and medical reasons to be delayed. Now I'm short and clear, I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74014	Comrade Vukadinovac, I must draw your attention to your respect for article 107 from now on. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly when you discuss and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. No "medicine specialis" can derogate the Constitution. When you break the Constitution, it's dictatorship. The word has a Minister Lonchar, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74015	Mr. Vukadinović, I've now understood a part of it. Is that what you're up to, if you can say, that waist, and everyone else can say their opinions? We were guided by the fact that everyone was allowed, not allowed, to speak their mind. Whether they're from the waist, whether they're from the waist, whether they're from something else, third, but tell me if someone was allowed to say anything about Corona, Coronavirus, anything that's related to Coronavirus. We finally heard all the opinions, but in all these opinions, from facts and what is available to us and what is official medicine, we unanimously made all the decisions, but don't forbid us from hearing all the opinions, that people comment, that people say, I think that's okay. A bigger problem would have been if it hadn't been for people to say their opinions, in my opinion. I think this is the biggest kind of democracy you've ever had to hear people from Serbia, and from Europe, the world, that everyone is allowed to say everything. I'm telling you again, the measures are being taken and all the measures that have been taken are based on official medicine, based on doctors, and based on the facts that exist at the moment they're being brought in. The measures were changed according to the changes in all these parameters to be monitored. There is no philosophy, there is no policy, I repeat, all measures have been taken to protect the health and lives of people in Serbia, who are first. Don't just manipulate it. There's no reason. There's no reason. You can't find any fact that we've gone deaf somewhere about the recommendations of the professionals and ours and the WHO and all the possible ones that are dealing with this problem right now. I think that's the most important thing for the citizens of Serbia. Does that answer anyone, doesn't answer, I'm sorry, but we can't go in there right now. We appeal to one responsibility, one seriousness, the Coronavirus is there, we should live with it, there are clear recommendations on what we should do, how we can protect ourselves and how we can move on. It's up to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74016	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74017	Thank you. Now, I don't know, just whether to answer to the minister or the chairman who took advantage of the opportunity to teach me how things are with the Constitution, so I'd remind you first, Mr. Arsic, that the Constitution has been broken here since the moment this state of emergency was introduced. So... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74018	My colleague, first of all, you will be able to say that the Constitution has been violated as a People's MP in this Chamber when the Constitutional Court finds that the Constitution has been violated, and if you do not agree with the Constitutional Court's decision, then comment on the decision, and until then the Constitution is not broken. Please ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74019	You've come up with this very well, what your colleague said. Mr. Arsic, I hope I can comment on the Constitutional Court's decision both last and future. Of course his will be executed, as is the case with the Brussels Agreement, his inaction was also executed and we are now living with the consequences and Serbs on KIM, with the consequences of the Brussels Agreement, the devastating consequences of Serbia's integrity. He washed his hands, I hope he doesn't wash his hands like that this time. But to answer only to Mr. Loncar, the very statements of those doctors that you mentioned, the distinguished members of the expert team, give me the basis for doubting that this decision is essentially political and that it is not complete. I've described what our polling stations look like, and all the citizens know what our polling stations look like, with how many dozens of people out there. I'm not even talking about the voter before any voter goes in. And, as I told you and quoted Professor Nestorovic as saying, it is very likely that this virus was already in February, but even in January he said, here in January, that he was. We only took action in March, i.e. the government took action and imposed a state of emergency. Two months actually, the citizens were exposed to the fact that they didn't know. How then we can be safe both as citizens and as political people who decide that something similar is not happening now and that it will not happen, that it is similar in May, as it was in January and February, that it is in May and June that virus between us. It tells you the waist and I end it, it tells you the waist, your waist, your doctors that autumn, actually early autumn and summer period when the activity of Coronavirus is the smallest and that in that sense they are the most dangerous and most active in the period December–March. In that sense, the medical reasons... (don't understand), and I think that the political epidemiological situation is even worse than this health situation, and as bad as it is, we're going to see it in the next period, and that's why we should also think about this proposal, rather than stubbornly insisting on something that may be politically celery, perhaps because of some percentage more or less. The government stands well now, will stand well and in the fall, I don't doubt the good result of the government, but this looks like it's a little fast and it's like it wants to do the job. I'm saying, Mr. Arsic, it's hard for you or this convocation, this congregation majority can be some great guardian of the Constitution, because you've violated it multiple times and by doing and by doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74020	According to Djordje Vukadinovic, judge of the Constitutional Court. When you're done with it, we can talk about it. According to the Rules of Procedure, Sasa Radulovic, the People's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74021	The Honorable Chairman, you have violated Article 100. Rules of Procedure. You know very well that if you want to participate in the discussion and to share any comments and lessons with anyone, you should get down to the bench with the MPs and report for the word. Instead you abuse your position and make comments that really no one... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74022	I thank my colleague Radulovic, I didn't know you were also a lawyer, besides being a bankruptcy manager. I don't think I've violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Saša Radulovic: I have two minutes. ) Up to two minutes, my colleague Radulovic. As a lawyer, you should know that. (Saša Radulovic: Two minutes!) ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74023	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, here today is another big holiday for us Serbs, for us Orthodox people. First of all, as a Serbian host to all our Orthodox believers, I would like to congratulate the glory of St. Mark. By the way, St. Mark's glory is also the Day of the Municipality of Svrlig and my Svrgljiji, congratulating the Day of the Municipality. By the way, Saint Marco is the same glory of the USS I represent here and whose president I am. I congratulate all members and sympathisers on the glory of St. Mark. When we came here to the Assembly, we saw something that was not like us, which is not like the Serbs. We're hosts, we're people who want every good. Here they welcomed us, my colleague Marijan Risticevic, they welcomed him, they made violence against him, and it showed that something was wrong. Every time I speak, I speak from the heart with a desire to respect everyone, to appreciate everyone, and normally I want them to appreciate me as well. Today here in the Assembly we have these points that are worse, related to the electoral actions. In particular, we are like the USS, I am as the MP candidate for MPs on the list – Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. It's an honor to be with people who want Serbia well. I am here with them because I want us to have a greater opportunity in the coming period to provide greater support for our village, our agriculture, to give greater support to people living from the village and in the country, because it proved during this pandemic that the village and agriculture again saved Serbia. That is why we must give greater support to our people living in the country and from the village. We must give greater support to southeastern Serbia, and I am therefore on the list led by our President Aleksandar Vukic. I think all those measures that were in the previous period, about protecting people's health from this disease, have produced results from this virus. I thank health care, thank the health system, our doctors, our sisters, our drivers in the home of health, auxiliary workers, all those who participated in protecting our people's health, to stop the spread of the disease. That's why I was speaking at the conference and in the previous assembly, there was our prime minister, where I was potential, and I'm going to ask for the next period to provide our healthcare professionals with conditions for obtaining apartments in the same way that they got security workers just because they deserved it. Not just health workers, health workers, everyone else. One of the things that matters to me, here comes the time when we'll meet again in the electoral action, it's important that those who want to participate, a large number of our parties participate in these elections, those who don't want it is their right. But if they don't, they can't ban us from participating in the election. Now here's the suggestion that other than public notebooks, who have so far had the only right to work for an overture of signatures, that they can do so. In municipalities where there were no public notebooks there could have been from the municipal administration, but in cities or places where public notebooks or notaries were, there could not be collected signatures, could not be verified without them. When we, or my party in Nis, are about to go out alone, we've collected signatures, there's been a lot of problems about collecting signatures. We bring, gather people, come to one place, public notebook... (don't get it). At 50, 70 people are waiting. This has shown that it is not good, and this way we will give the possibility that now and the city administration, the municipal administration can give their workers the opportunity to work over the signatures and in such a way that more political entities in these small communities, in major cities, can provide signatures, go to elections and be participants in these elections, get support from citizens, and that support will tomorrow reflect the city administrations, who will be president, such as the President of the Assembly, the policy may be run in these municipalities in a different way. I have always said that it must be more isolated for our village, for agriculture and on the territory of the city of Nis, in the territory of southeastern Serbia. Much has been done, much invested, but I think we need to put a bigger accent on women in the country, on children in the country, on the conditions of life in the country, because that's what it showed again and as it was 21 years ago when the bombing took place, the village saved Serbia, and now that the hardest part of the village saved Serbia and our agriculture. We say, when we have our barns, our grains, we're not afraid because we know we won't be hungry. When a peasant has the opportunity to live, he will also have the right to live in the city to have for all his needs and bread and all that it takes to survive. One of the things that is important to me as a man who comes from southeastern Serbia is that in this term of our government we have had big investments in southeastern Serbia, but we have a lot of problems that we have not solved, which we expect to solve in the next period, because I am sure that our citizens will recognise the policy that gives progress to our country, our people living in the territory of all Serbia. I'm sure we'll have the opportunity to have ministers in the next period who want everyone's well-being. I think it would be good, since it is close to 1,500,000 people in southeast Serbia, that in this next government we have some presidents in the government, ministers, vice-presidents from Nis, Srlig, Bela Palanka, Gazan Han, Vranja, Zaječar, that we have people from these municipalities who will help, invest in southeastern Serbia. Once again, distinguished colleagues, I will vote for the proposals of these laws and once again congratulate everyone on the glory of St. Mark, that they have a lot of health, happiness, success in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74024	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74025	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is my last address from this call to the National Assembly. You could see in the past few minutes what the legal violence carried out by the ruling majority in Serbia, which takes away the word of MPs in the middle of a speech, although according to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74026	Comrade Radulovic, you did not have a discussion, but a commercial about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't fall into the order of political discussions, and I interrupted you for two reasons. The first is that you have no need to defend your colleague Vukadinović from me, and the second is, if you continue to defend him, you would also charge for it, as you charge for everything, so you receive a regular salary from the National Assembly, and this is your third or fourth entry into this hall for the last two years. Here, on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74027	Dear citizens, you see what legal violence looks like, it continues, using every opportunity to silence the MPs. This morning, in time, we submitted amendments to the agenda, where we really gave amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, showed that we could come to fair electoral conditions, however, and this is being prevented by legal violence. Legal violence continues, looks like a special treatment have exactly the MPs enough is enough, we seem to be pummeling them the most. As for the former authorities, they play ping-pong among themselves, Kurt and Murta, so they earn and transfer the ball, and one and the other is fine, and during that time Serbia is failing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74028	Mr. Radulovich, I have to distract you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74029	He continues to chair the legal violence, to enter my speech, without any right.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74030	Comrade Radulovic, I must draw your attention to you, you are MP Sasa Radulovic, enough in the National Assembly no longer exists. Didn't they tell you about it? You don't have a parliamentary group anymore. So now you speak as the MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74031	Dear citizens, I will endure these humiliations, and it is because of you, you see how democracy works in Serbia. Today their mouths were full of fascism. They were talking about fascism alleged. The violence committed, physical violence is always for every conviction, but using the word "fascism" is an insult to all citizens whose ancestors have suffered from fascism, and my family and your family, and flirting with that name is below each level. So, legal violence and every other violence is exercised by power. They take away the word, you can't speak, and then, of course, it creates a problem for people, you can't express yourself, you can create anger and try to answer it. For the whole state of Serbia, only this authority is responsible. Here you are looking at the work of this legal violence – disabling the microphone. This is where the minister talked about how some rules should be followed, about keeping our distance, about attacking the gatherings. Here, look what it looked like between March 5th and March 15th. This is a collection of SNS signatures. This is a shame. So, at a time when they had crisis headquarters and knew there was danger, this is how they treated the citizens. Look what the SNS pre-elections looked like. This is Valjevo, March 9th, when it was already known for the virus. That's when they were fine. That's when the virus was funny. This was introduced to you after an emergency, when the cafes worked, when the gyms, hair salons, met without these masks, or muzzles that impose on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we know that the World Health Organization has said that for the citizens of these masks, they don't make any sense. Here, look here in the Assembly, they take them off and put their hands back. Well, that doesn't make any health sense. It makes sense for healthcare professionals. That's what the World Health Organization said. What your government is hiding is that they did all this for the sake of choice. They make fools of us, all together. They're taking our freedom, watching us get punished. Here, and today, there's a law on the agenda where they want to increase the fine and that's why the minister is here, from 30,000 to 50,000 dinars. It is the only change they want to introduce, to spur the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to drive them into control, to drive them and to destroy their dignity, as they have imprisoned them in house arrest. This is all about control. As for what they did, when you listen to them, it's such a thank you, it's such a greatness to myself that I don't have a word for it. Look out, in Europe half of the dead, half of them, tens of thousands of people, died in nursing homes, half of them in Europe. A quarter of all dead in Serbia died in a nursing home in Serbia, the Gerontology Centre in Nis. When you look at everything else, we have no record of how many people died in nursing homes at all, as much as in hospitals, because they hide it, hide it as a snake's feet, because they can't get out in front of the citizens, because along with all these globalist governments in Europe, they've locked up healthy citizens in house arrest, healthy people, it's never been done, and they haven't protected the old and sick grandparents, what they had to do. At the head of this gerontological center is the SNS chamber and in all other places it is so. They say the waist made some decisions. The waist didn't bring anything. You've got SNS personnel supporting Alexander Vukic, who's playing Crisis Headquarters. Well, shame on them all together. This is a struggle for the freedom of citizens. Today the SNS was talking about it; today is the day of victory, so we should remember it. And when we asked in this assembly to mark the 100-year breakthrough of the Thessaloniki Front, they wouldn't let it go. Imagine, the Assembly has not marked a 100-year breakthrough in the Thessaloniki Front. They're fake patriots, respected citizens. Dear SNS voters, I know that you think, on the basis of the media, the media darkness and the control you have, that Alexander Vukic is conducting politics in the interests of the Serbian state. That's, unfortunately, a lie. He's running the politics of Germany. Both former and current authorities are implementing Berlin's policies throughout the Balkans, turning Serbia into a colony of cheap labour. They're gonna populate your migrants. In his words, in the next 20 years he will settle over a million migrants for German labor factories. Our millions of people need to move out, about a million of us need to lose because of the negative birth rate. So, all together, Serbia disappears before our eyes. They play false patriotism. Dear SNS voters, I wish I were wrong, because it would be much better for all of us if I were wrong and I didn't know, but if this were happening to us what's happening to us. This is a disgrace to Serbia. These choices are a complete farce and all you can say to everyone is – shame on you, all together!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74032	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74033	The Honorable President, Honorable Ministers and fellow MPs, today we have the opportunity to discuss first and foremost in the principle debate on the set of laws concerning amendments to the Law on the Selection of MPs and councilors in local self-governments, as well as the law concerning the amendment and addition of the Law on Human Health, when it comes to a certain epidemic. It is obvious that the profession so far through its crisis headquarters, led by Mr. Loncar, has made certain recommendations and opinions, based on which politicians are the sole property in each country to make certain decisions. Indeed, you should be congratulated, Mr. Lonchar, for taking a truly large role in fighting a completely unknown epidemic, at which point every country dealt simply with itself and the way it would deal with such an epidemic and how it would organize its citizens. This story about us closing people because we love it so much has shown in some countries, such as Denmark, that we could not close it, but the forecasts for 400,000 people who came from the European Union, because they trust their country to treat them, because they wouldn't even get to the respirator, they wouldn't get to the hospital, because we had a chance to see them lying on the roads of large hospitals and large clinical centres in developed countries, shows the essence -- that out of 400,000 people who came here had a great trust in their own country. That's what's important. On the other hand, the forecasts that spoke about a precisely epidemic that would spread statistically went beyond one to five thousand, not infected, but people who would be in a situation that would not reach the respirator and that they could lose their lives. That didn't happen. This has not happened, but in some developed countries of the European Union it has happened because countries simply have a completely different vision for their citizens, they simply want their pension and disability insurance fund to be reduced, because they consider it a huge cost to the state. Simply, the psychology of Serbian citizens and the president of the state and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, as the most responsible political party, has always been on the side of Serbian citizens, to protect life above all. That's what Prime Minister Ana Brnabic was talking about here. We started a fight for life to save lives. It really worked out that way, and that fight was actually with an invisible enemy, but also with all those invisible stairs that we had to jump into a walk to fight to get the equipment, to get help, to find out from our resources how we're going to, simply all those who aren't sick to find ways to save their jobs, but also their lives and their health. For this reason, I think we should really pay tribute to all healthcare professionals and institutions who are truly extremely responsible, in a responsible way doing this job. It is important that the state has made decisions in an appropriate and effective manner at a given time quickly, and that is why we have these results today. What's more important to say today is that 170 countries will be affected by the economic consequences of, in fact, the global pandemic COVID-19. Each country struggles in its own way to stop the adverse effects of the economy, which is otherwise predicted to last for a year. What Serbia has shown, and this is that all of our work and all of the economic reforms and all of the fiscal consolidation we've done here, has really given our full effect now by welcoming this kind of pandemic and this kind of economic adverse consequence that one pandemic of global proportions, practically, has now given to all countries. They say the effects will be, Malten, like after World War II. Therefore, we now face economically what is simply unknown to many countries. Now, at this point, when you see, yesterday, a minimum personal income was paid to all the employees who applied to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration for the next three personal incomes for the minimum personal income the state gives, precisely to prevent these negative effects, shows, in fact, that the state was really parallel to these health measures meant these economic measures and therefore essentially concerned all segments in society. Today, we came to the Serbian Assembly to continue the process of electoral actions, which were scheduled for 26 April this year, on the basis of the consensus of political parties that had agreed upon after the suspension of the state of emergency, due to the introduction of the emergency and the pandemic introduced in all EU countries, in all major European and world states. I will tell you that on the day when the state of emergency was introduced in Serbia, another seven EU member states were introduced on 15 March. So, literally within three to five days before us and three to five days after us all EU Member States have introduced a state of emergency, emergency measures, even some much more restrictive precisely because the pandemic has taken on a much greater effect and dynamics and where even developed countries could not cope with the health system. We have come here today to discuss, on the basis of the political parties' consensus, and ultimately to vote on what the political parties agreed on after the suspension of the state of emergency, and these are certain amendments and additions to the laws that speak about technical conditions of implementation of the elections, just to give the opportunity to all political parties that have not so far had the opportunity to collect signatures, to do so in the most efficient way and that the simple campaign could end in some 38 days. What's been waiting for us? We were welcomed by a group of people headed by Bosca Obradovic and representatives of the Alliance for Serbia who came here with cars, with open hoods to fix cars, and in fact to make a whole play where they eventually showed what a fascist ideology that simply found its foothold in Bosca Obradovic and the Alliance for Serbia seems to be dealing with political inexperiences. And as the Constitution of Serbia says according to Articles 21 and 49, no one should be incriminated because of their different creeds, national belongings and political opinions. Then we come into a situation where you can really say that the ruling coalition, because it is simply constantly respected by the SNS, that the ruling party is responsible for preserving democracy in society. As you can see, we've had opportunities to really do a lot of things in the past less than a week with how much patience we've kept all the democratic values we've had so far. The applause addressed to the medical workers during the battle for human lives that was in 20.05 each night was fed up with representatives of the opposition parties, so they replaced these applauses with banging into pots, and now they're simple and they're little as an indicator of their dissatisfaction, but the need aside from those verbal violence that took place on the children of the president of Serbia, and it lasts in some continuity, but now they're getting more and more, has been passed on to the invitation to violence and taking the lives of the country's president himself. Now, all this is small, and now the need is even greater for individuals such as Bosko Obradovic and his followers to wait for certain MPs with whom they do not think the same and are physically dealt with in the worst possible way. It's an indicator of what political program is that should go to the polls. The problem arises in fact, yesterday and the day before when political parties came to the conclusion that they will go to elections, such as a certain movement of Sergey Trifunovic and the "One of the Five Million" movement. Then there was a problem that the Alliance for Serbia headed by Gilas simply does not want to, until now he said he would boycott those elections, the second part of the DS wants to go to the polls, and now all Serbian citizens become hostages to their problem of getting out or not going out in the June 21st elections. We are coming up with a crucial proposal and a solution from the former president of the state of Mr Tadic who said it is best to go to the poll with the boycott list. It's actually, you know, going to elections and trying to get that electoral body that supported those walks all the way and the boycott of these elections now changes and capitalizes a number of votes that will go to polling stations. This is what we have a chance today to talk about here in Serbia's parliament to say that certain political parties, so they resort to verbal and physical violence to work to raise their own ratings, trying to cross that three-percent censorship and we have a simple SNS political programme headed by Mr. Vukic and all those parties who support the ruling coalition policy and who simply advocate Serbia's future. Serbia's future shows that the economy, science, health, culture, ultimately and political values that we have today in Serbia want to preserve and want to improve and show the world and the European Union that Serbia has made much progress in all segments of society. For the economy, we are all recognised on the basis of all results, when you look at it now in the first quarter you will see that Serbia has had the smallest decline of all countries in the region and even from many developed countries in the EU. After all, we have forecasts and the IMF will see how much that fall will be, the World Bank and our Ministry of Finance, so we'll see the end of the year. What we need to say is that Serbia is struggling with all its strengths to be the best at what it does. I think the citizens of Serbia must hear and recognize what it is that is in the future, because of the future of our children very important when we go to the polls on 21 June, what we are voting on and what we are deciding on. We today have besides fascist ideology and physical violence against our colleagues here, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, we have one presentation of total folly when it comes to politics and democratic values in the Republic of Serbia, we have a presentation of physical violence and the destruction of institutions. Try to get into some institutions every time, so that they will collapse in such a way that they will only enter those institutions, take up and say, "Behold, they are now ours." There's no winning power without a choice. If you want to have a model and imitate everything that was in 2000, you have an incursion into institutions, you have an attempt at violence and verbal and physical and destruction of certain material values of institutions, you have to go ahead with elections, you have to get the legitimacy and legality of citizens of Serbia, only after that can you ask to implement everything the people are about, or what the citizens of Serbia voted on. That implementation is due and responsible, and so are you from the opposition, as are we from the authorities. At each polling post, you will have your representatives, if you can gather them, you will have the opportunity to participate in the election process, you will have the opportunity to witness how many votes the party has raised. It's the only legitimacy and future we can talk about when it comes to it. Since the ruling coalition's responsibility is the largest today and by opposition parties is constantly potential, we had opportunities yesterday from Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, to hear that despite all that he personally experienced as well as verbal and attempts of physical attacks on his family members and his environment, in the most perfident and worst possible way, you had the opportunity to hear from his mouth an invitation to all political actors to report, collect their signatures and go to the elections. It is the hand given to all that the political struggle is being fought here in parliament, not on the street, because it is in the interest of all of us. I think it is clear on June 21st that Serbian citizens will think very much about whether they will vote for the past or vote for the future because of our children, as well as all our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74034	Thank you. The word is Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74035	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Serbia is such that we can talk today about amendments to the election law. Respecting the constitution, all legal deadlines in March were set for regular elections in Serbia. Because of the situation in which the whole world has found itself, all the political parties responsible have agreed that it is okay and to stop the electoral action. As everything that is done in Serbia has been criticised, so today this is also criticised when we talk and we are looking for a model to continue the electoral actions. Serbia has managed to cope with the pandemic. Serbia has managed to create conditions to end the state of emergency and to slowly return life to normal and to move on with special caution. The state of Serbia gave a bold response to the virus attacks. We have managed to save a lot of lives and because of what has been done in health care in Serbia in the last few years has helped to fight this pandemic more easily in many years. First of all, we had investments of 600m euros in our three clinical centres, we had the construction of special hospitals, construction and reconstruction of general hospitals throughout Serbia. All of this has contributed to Serbia being at the top of European health standards. And if our health was as it was during those who today promote violence, who abuse their own and other children as a political argument, I can't imagine what kind of scenario our country might have, if the state hadn't done what it did, we could hardly stand up to this virus. When we look at the statistics of countries in the region, we can say that Serbia had measures that gave results. We had difficult measures in Serbia six years ago, difficult economic measures, but most people in Serbia understood that, as she understood the measures that were implemented in the previous period in the fight with the pandemic. We are witnessing today that based on the difficult measures we had in 2014 carried out by Aleksandar Vukic, then at the post of prime minister, Serbia has the foundations and has stability and now has the opportunity to help its citizens. I believe that we will quickly return to a state that was before the pandemic and continue to record growth and that we have marked an intense growth in the previous period and until the beginning of the pandemic has many indicators. I'll remind you of a few. In just seven years, we have managed to employ 700,000 people in Serbia, we have increased foreign direct investment by more than three times, and we have managed to reach the top of the world's list in terms of the number of investments, i.e. to the size of the economy. We built 350km of highways, many improved rail, water and air traffic, and Serbia became a link between European countries. In 2010, the average salary in Serbia was 331 euros, and today it is 515 euros. Today we have three international airports and "Er Serbia", and now we have seen how she did her job in the pandemic rush so strengthened and in 2011, we had 3.1 million passengers, and according to the 2019 figures, that number is 6.2 million. Indeed, here I want to take the opportunity to say – all the honours of all the people of "Er Serbia" and of the entire organisation and logistics, how they managed to respond in due time and help us deal with this situation more easily. Also, we've made sure that it's international... which Serbia has at its highest level in the world and I want to say that the international reputation that our president has is national good for Serbia. The people in Serbia know this, the people in Serbia see this and the people in Serbia supported the reforms they implemented in 2014, and they supported the measures that were still in force, and the measures were only in force with respect and respect for the profession and I believe that people in Serbia are sure that only President Aleksandar Vukic has a clear plan for the recovery and future of our country. Sources have been called before the introduction of the state of emergency in our country, and before that, many electoral laws have been improved today with changes to the laws on the agenda, we simply adapt ourselves to this situation so that those lists, those political parties who have failed to collect signatures for their lists, can, in a easier way, with the respect of preventive measures, create conditions that they can collect signatures and hand over their lists. What happened this morning at the entrance to parliament is truly creepy and inadmissible, for the most terrible condemnation and for the urgent response of all the competent institutions. Kicking a man, kicking, first, a man, then only then a legitimately elected representative of the people, the MP is a direct blow to the Serbian people. Such a situation shows us a complete absence of reason. What did Obradovic, Jeremic and Gilas think? That the measures in the fight against the virus will be unsuccessful? That the people would be angry? They even wanted to die, I have to say so mildly, they once called on older people to come out, they were just looking for a way to extend the state of emergency and not to have the choice, because the people won't, they won't and they won't, they just have to tear down institutions and physically attack people. Their political arguments have been particularly expressed in the last few days, which are insulting, calling for murder, physical violence, sherpas and whistles. Bosko Obradovic heard when the president of the Republic said strength is not won out of victory but out of battle. But the Assembly is a place for conflicting political ideas, and Bosko Obradovic has definitely proved to him that the Assembly is a place for fighting, i.e. to split jackets, to desecrate state symbols, to split flags and so forth. All those working under the direct order of Dragan Gilas are now in panic, causing direct damage to their country, wherever they appear. They're only interested in filling their pockets and not in the welfare of the state and the people. In the end, I just want to say - gentlemen, here you are, in addition to improved electoral conditions, in addition to these options, go to the polls. It's absolutely fair to go to the polls. Go out and see if the decent Serbia will support hitting pots, whistles, physical violence, or support labour policy, results and plans for Serbia's future and the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74036	The word has an MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74037	Good afternoon. Dear citizens, your people here met today to, as the government wishes, amend some electoral laws. You must know, dear citizens, that there is a democratic standard everywhere in the world that within a year before the elections are held, electoral laws are not changed, so that all political entities who want to go to elections in time can know and count under what conditions they will run the campaign. What we have today, we have that month before the elections, when the campaign has already started, we are changing some electoral conditions. And when you ask the authorities, they will tell you that it is out of their keen desire to improve the electoral conditions under which the elections are being held, and what they are not telling you, dear citizens, is that they are in a hurry to vote. They burn under their feet to make elections as soon as possible, for if they didn't burn them, they would have put them off nicely for it when the conditions came to pass. Because, right now, political entities need to run the campaign while they are still in effect from the ban on gatherings, until there are no conditions for campaigning. Why are they in a hurry and why are they in a hurry? Because if we postpone the elections in the fall, dear citizens, all the devastating consequences of the economy, which will have these medieval measures of closing a healthy nation into quarantine, will be more than obvious. And they want to go to the polls before you feel it on your skin, because then maybe you'll vote differently. When you tell them what I am now telling you, my fellow citizens, when you resent these medieval measures of quarantine, the closure of the entire nation in house arrest for a period of a month and a half, they tell you -- we have preserved the people, the mortality is small. You know what, the way you saved us, that could've kept us safe, and my late three-grade grandma from elementary school -- shut everything down under lock and key, and God forbid she sees me. Citizens of you gentlemen are expecting you, and that's why they choose you, to have more intelligent solutions than copying my late grandmother's three-class primary school solution. You've ruined the economy. The consequences will only be felt in the fall. That's why you're in a hurry to make this election. There's no conditions for holding fair and free choices. There weren't any prior to the anti-constitutional emergency, they're gone now, after the state of emergency has been lifted, but now they're even worse and worse than they were before all of this. If you gentlemen cared about democracy at all, besides which I doubt you've ever been through in your life, you'd be delaying holding elections until the conditions are obtained that they can take place in a normal atmosphere, and you wouldn't be so quick and hasty on them to get there as soon as possible. Now I would just have to say that, if you are going to answer at all, any of the MPs of the government to this speech, which you may not, because, as I can see, after the speech of MP Radulovic the cat ate his tongue, but if anyone answers anything, I would like to announce in advance that I want a replica after that and I am calling for the right to that replica, based on what one of your deputies told me four months ago, and that is that anyone who seeks a replica gets, in this democratic parliament that you are leading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74038	Thank you. The word is Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74039	As for answering nonsense and nonsense, I don't think there's any more punishment for stupidity and nonsense than ignoring. It's about the answer to everything we've heard so far. When I became a National MP, frankly, I didn't expect to see my colleague kicked out in this house, with a torn suit, with a bloody ear, walking into this room. But, frankly, it's not like it's something new and we haven't seen it many times before. I don't think I can even count how many times we're all together, and in this room and in all other places, we're talking about people who are obviously the only target here is to challenge each other at all costs, to send into the world a picture of political instability in Serbia, to try to extort their own arrest, to play big political victims. Apparently, everything they've done so far hasn't been enough, so they decided one step further, to get even stronger in it. If you remember, three months ago, here, when Bosko Obradovic for who knows which time he attacked Aleksandar Martinovic, I then separated him from the other MPs of the ruling majority, and I did not do it because it was particularly important for me to protect him, but because it was important for me to protect the dignity of this home, because none of these people here wanted the ugliest image from Serbia to be sent to the world. We today, 140 of us, as many as we were this morning, were able to get out front and solve it the same way they did it, but it's not our job. We Serbian citizens did not choose to fight here, but to do our job, to defend our ideas and present our programme. When you look at those protests in front of the presidency, who knows which way, the collapse of the fence, the intrusion to get inside, you just can't help but wonder what the point is? Let's say you went inside, and now what? You want to kill the president? You want to beat people up there? To take the presidency by force? What's the point? Take a picture in there? Staying forever? I don't think anyone in Serbia can understand what the point is and what the objective of this violent attempt to invade the Serbian presidency is. At the same time that these protests happened last night, I watch TV, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, I think Lutovac was, he makes a statement to one media, and now it's live. He's being asked - what's the point of this protest? He says - we are gathered here, protesting, because we think the elections on June 21st are dangerous and they will endanger the nation's health for the Coronavirus. While he's talking, the camera is recording him, and behind him you see 300 people sitting on 20cm each other, taking off their masks, having no protection, while he's saying he's worried about the 21st of June for the health of the nation, on May 7th you have 300 people standing behind him, who absolutely don't care about any protection. So you see one complete, complete political absurd, one childish behavior, which one of my friends would say -- it's about seventh grade, second term. But those in eighth grade, first term, they're much more mature and serious and they wouldn't do such nonsense. It is similar to this idea that we heard from former President Boris Tadic, who says -- let's go to the polls, that the list is called "The Boycott List", so after the election, we will continue to boycott the Assembly. Now, watch out for another absurd. Imagine the situation that their list, for example, wins the election, which, of course, is impossible, but let's say, everyone goes to the polls to win, they win the election, but they've already promised the citizens that they'll boycott the assembly after the election. So they can't even form power, and they won. So you see how much there is no real thinking and how many people are lost. When you see who's been running our country for 12 years, it's really good that we still exist. When it comes to these amendments to the law, everything we've done in the past few months, we've done with the goal of making the election process as good as possible. It wasn't as much about us as it was about the ruling party, as it was for all the other participants in the election. We have now signed the elections, but we are doing this to make the remaining parties as safe and efficient as possible to carry out the process. It's like when we cut the censorship to 3%, we didn't do it for us, we all had a better chance of being part of the parliament, so that the votes wouldn't stay below the censorship, so someone didn't get 4%, so that after that, the biggest party was spilled. Indeed, I sincerely want all the participants of the election to cross the census and enter this assembly and fight for their ideas. When you see the ultimate epilogue, and the ultimate epilogue will be a fiasco for all those who behave like that and as many times as they have experienced fiasco in all elections, don't expect any of them to analyse their results, their actions, their own program, that they might take the blame on themselves. Make sure it doesn't have anything to do with it. Everyone else will be guilty. We will be guilty of their result, the citizens of Serbia will be guilty who did not understand them, only they will never be guilty. Here, right after the election, they'll probably start some new protests, complain about someone again, and they won't even think about why the citizens won't vote for them. As I said at the beginning – there is no better cure for such behavior than ignoring. It's not up to us to engage in such conflicts with them, there are competent authorities involved. As you know, as you know, today, 15 misdemeanors who have been making chaos in front of the Assembly have been arrested and we hope that the state will be able to cope with this new wave of fascism in Serbia, right now in the days when we celebrate 75 years of victory over fascism. I can't look back on any comments, because it really offends all these people here and all the people in Serbia when someone insults doctors who have been fighting for the lives of Serbian citizens for two months, people who have spent their whole life learning to be good doctors, good epidemiologists, and then there's a slight relationship about nothing to lecture them about, to even tell them that no life in Serbia has been saved. Since it is often repeated that half the dead in Europe died in nursing homes, and do you know why that is? That's because they didn't get to the hospital. They didn't get to the hospital because their hospitals were crowded because their health system broke, because they had to give up these people, to tell them -- you're old, we can't treat you, we have to treat these younger ones. That's what we in Serbia didn't allow, and that's what doctors wouldn't let you. Laugh, you asshole. I'm sorry that, here, for the first time in this term, I'm going to use that word, but obviously there's no other epithet to describe the person who's been able to insult this Assembly for days, not one doctor, but the whole team who took part in the crisis staff, and not just in the crisis headquarters. And today, after two months, at the very end of that epidemic, we came to have 1% to 2% of the infected daily compared to the number of tested, these measures that we applied and these efforts of these doctors. But I think that the citizens of Serbia recognize it well and that in the end, when the elections come, we all measure well. So, I also want to at this point, first of all, to invite all Serbian citizens to go to the polls as largely as possible, because that is the purpose of democracy and thus to show what kind of future they want, as they have done and always have, as they have done and when we were in opposition and we have lost a lot of choices, but we have never sought change on the street. We welcome that victory in the election, not in the street, but in the election. I think a lot of people might learn a lot about democracy from that. Since this is probably possible, and my last address in this conference, I want to thank all the health workers in Serbia once again for everything they have done in the previous two months, especially those who have been most responsible and taken responsibility for the most difficult measures, and especially the citizens of Serbia who at an incredibly high rate have been very responsible and respected all these tips so that after two months we can now go to a much better scenario than what seemed at the beginning. If we hadn't applied these measures, we'd probably have passed as some European countries that have three, four, five, even ten thousand deceased. Maybe it doesn't matter if it's the number of deceased 200 or 5,000, but I don't think any Serbian citizen has anything to do with it. Those who tell you that it is risky to go to the elections on June 21st, and it is not risky to go to the fall when all Europe and all experts in Europe are forecasting and expecting a new wave of Corona, it only tells you that it is more important for them to get a few months more time for themselves, and they don't care about the health of citizens and what is what professional people, both in this country and in the world, are telling us every day. Once again, so thank you to all the doctors, thank you to all the citizens. And once again, I urge all people to go to the elections on June 21st and express their democratic will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74040	The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74041	Thank you. Dear citizens, let me explain to you what just happened. I must confess to the MPs of the SNS. What I confess to you, you're a top manipulator. Dear citizens, you don't see everything going on in a direct transmission, you have to be inside or someone to explain to you, as I'm about to explain to you right now. So Ambassador Parezenovic is not on the speaker list at all. He stood up to replicate, it's the only basis by which he could answer the word, for me to replicate. He had the longest replica in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia. In doing so, it is not at all my answer, but rather a dispute with the Alliance for Serbia, with former authority and a fight with other oppositions, and it cites some of their incompetences. Please don't put me and "Enough" in the same basket with former authority. I'm in politics because of my former government, and I'm in. What I object to them is that they did not do it and introduced the order they should have imposed, so they are more guilty of me than you, for if they had done it, you would not have happened. It's your fault that you've had the chance to change everything, not that you haven't changed, but that you've increased your haughtiness 100 times. You're not afraid of God either. Then understand that no one will change, not the former, not the present, but under the old days a woman must enter, a single mother, into politics, to show you how things need to change. "Enough" was never part of the former government, nor of the current government, nor of any government anywhere, nor of the locale. Our time is just coming. Count us into future power.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74042	National MP Marko Parezenović is under regular number 30. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74043	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. So I really don't understand the basis of which MPs you gave the replica, because I didn't mention any of them at all. Maybe the lady was looking at the ball, so she saw something, I don't know. I really don't understand that, because without any reason you gave the line. You've given them two minutes, and then they'll talk about how you're a dictator, how there's tyranny here over them, how they don't have a chance to turn to the National Assembly, and on the other hand, as chairman, you're ruling them and giving them a replica at the moment when there was absolutely no basis for that. Like I said, I didn't mention any of them. As far as I'm concerned, enough is enough. I didn't mention it once. That no longer exists, for I would like to inform them and all the citizens. Of the 16 Messengers, there were 13 who fled from them. Why did they do that? They probably know that, but it's the best way to talk about them. What we've been doing, they're not going to tell these three MPs who stayed behind as some waste from the former party, they're going to say citizens in the June 21st election. I'm not asking the Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74044	Thanks for that. I'm willing to accept that I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I've been deceived. I thought it would replicate. Sasa Radulovic, you asked for a replica. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. () What are we going to do now, a replica or a Rules of Procedure? (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. Now he's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74045	You broke Article 104 after Mr. Parezovic's speech, who mentioned the parts of my speech and commented on them, did not give me a replica. You missed that line, so now all I can do is answer the Rules of Procedure and I can't give you a line. Citizens can see that there is one special treatment of MPs enough has been done in this assembly that does not get word when they have the right to speak. It's just this situation with the replica, everybody seems to be winning, but they're embarrassed when we talk about it. That Article 104 has been broken since the beginning, since we entered this National Assembly and this is just the final example. They seem to find it very difficult when we speak, so they constantly violate the Rules of Procedure. Now I've been denied the right to replication. Since I didn't get it then, now I'm not going to ask for something that doesn't belong to me under the Rules of Procedure, because the moment the President of the National Assembly broke the Rules of Procedure and gave the MP Parezanovic his word, that moment I lost my right to the replica, because you can't jump. What the President of the Assembly has been repeating that we have the right to speak, we have a list of speakers and it seems that this list is changing in flight, which is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. This is about the beginning, since we entered the National Assembly. The reason why we boycotted the sessions, one time, before that we were the most active MPs, the most we reported for the word, the most legal proposals, the most discussion we had, the reason why we boycotted the Assembly in one period is because of this kind of violation of the rules, the legal violence that has been carried out against MPs, and because they have no ability to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74046	Thank you. Marko Parezenovic was changing with his colleague because he is in a hurry to get to Cacak in time. If you had come in the last two years at a time, the MPs would surely have noticed that it was allowed within a group of MPs. The word is Vojin Biljic. Here you go. You don't have a card?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74047	I never even got a card, I still have a temporary card. Before I begin my discussion, I hope that some measures have been taken against the faces that have prevented us from submitting to the agenda today. I don't expect an answer, but I hope so, and I'm sure that when they do, they will respond to the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to begin my speech with a quote from American President Roosevelt. After the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1942, Roosevelt then said: “We have never had this little time in which we have to do so much before. ” I would say that this quote and this sentence best describes Serbia's situation at the moment, not only that historical circumstances remind those from the beginning of World War II. And then there were two sides, and then there were both America and Russia and Britain, and then there was Germany at the other stop, and then there was Japan with Germany, and today there was China. The world is as deep apart as it was then. Serbia is unfortunately on the wrong side of history and on the wrong side of justice. It is located on the side of Germany and China, on the side of globalism. We, dear citizens, feel it every day on our skin what it looks like when you're on the side of globalism and you're someone's colony. Serbia is today, literally, the German colony, literally. This House, all our state bodies, our Constitutional Court, our Republic Prosecutor, is all about implementing the agendas we watch daily, and one of those agendas is the disappearance of our country and our people. The second of these agendas is the destruction of our freedom. I'm sorry there's no more Minister Loncar, he's gone when we talk, I guess he can't face us, but he's in on the agenda, too. It's a shame that 50,000 of our children, our quality children, leave this country every year. It is a shame that our population policy is that, instead of these children, we receive a million migrants that we have under contract with Austria, who will pay us back under these signed contracts, because someone has to work at cheap labour factories for a German colonizer, and that German colonizer, colleague Parezanovic, who you give the street to in Chačka, that German colonizer to whom the government gives, now I'm talking about different factories, at 10, 20, 30, 50, or how many thousands of euros per job, which our citizens can't make their whole lives. The same colonizer whose agendas you treat our people by, whose agendas you're closing a healthy nation in custody. Serbia is on the wrong side for the first time in its history. I hope the citizens of Serbia understand that. I hope that the SNS voters, who are mostly honest and honest people, but who are under the barbeque fire of the media, will be led astray on key issues, the most important question is that they are mistaken that you are protecting Serbia's national interest, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is not true. Never before in our history have we had such a betrayal of national interest, never before. There were difficult moments in our history, there were moments in which we were occupied, but no one has ever worked to this extent to destroy the core and be this people. No one has ever worked so hard to destroy the foundation of our sovereignty. No one has ever humiliated our institutions so much and turned them, instead of key decision-makers, into mere enforcement executives. Today all that matters is what Germany will tell you, what the EU will tell you. We live well if that's what Germany tells us. Come on, please, I guess the citizens of Serbia know whether they live well or not. You are fortunate that most of the opposition is on the same agenda and are more interested in what some foreign factor will tell them than in how Serbian citizens live. That's why in this House we have no essential questions, we have no debate about those things that are essential interests of every citizen of this country, but we have a story about trivial things, we have a story about whether something is fascism or not fascism, and by the way we relatify fascism. Just as in April 6th, when Belgrade took the colours of the German flag, we tried to turn the topic away from the terrible things that were happening in this people's history. We don't miss one chance, so today, on the eve of May 9, the day of victory over fascism, we re-relatify fascism. Is it because German friends don't insult you by accident for the things they've done to this people? For 200 years, the Balkans have colonised.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74048	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Parezenović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74049	Thank you. As I said at the beginning, so much nonsense that the question of whether it makes any sense to answer, and only one thing that matters, since a very malicious investor in the town of Chačka has been mentioned, and also a question of that famous street. What bothers me the most is that malice. I thought for a while that it was people who were just misinformed, and only had one show where I explained what it was about. It's about a German investor getting a street, not in the town of Chačka, but six kilometers from Cačka, in a circle of his factory. So, within the factory circle, the street used only by factory workers, as some small sign of attention that for the first time in 40 years we got one serious investment in the town of Cačka and where a large number of people were employed. Although I explained it, now we're hearing this lie again that's being abused in a very bad way, and then I realize it's not just bad information, but that it's a very bad intention, a very superficial and stupid spin. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74050	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74051	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. You had to react, Mrs. Gojkovic. Member of the 107th violation of this House's dignity. Someone here is saying that we are a colony and is insulting our country in a very ugly way. Serbia is a free and independent country and can decide for itself who its friends and associates will be, and it is especially embarrassing that someone calls us to globalism, whose leader stands for all those globalistic values, from abortions, through equal marriages and adoption of children in equal marriages. So, don't let them talk to us about globalism, and I ask you to react in the future. I repeat again, Serbia is a free and independent state where people and citizens choose their authority freely, and someone who might want to be dependent on someone else is probably online or looking at the ball looking for some kind of support in the white world. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74052	Would you like to vote on my injury to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. What good are you? (Vojin Biljic: Replica. Replica, who? Parezanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74053	I don't want to participate in cheap performances, in sharing insults with each other. We've seen what it looks like with the desired opposition, the very nice transfer of the ball, the serdare-vode, I've seen how the word is given, it's enough, today, how easily we can get the word, how easily we can get the replica, we can't even stand the additions of the agenda. If this is a legal state that will be, and I guarantee you, that this is a free country in which the people will be able to freely decide and I guarantee it, that kind of thing will be punished. The fact is that this parliament is reduced to these trivial bickerings in order to avoid a debate on key and major issues. For example, today enough has failed to submit its proposal for a law on KIM which this Assembly was obliged to bring to the Constitution of 2006 during the former government, and yet another former government. I ask you, which is why KIM law was not passed and I ask you in addition, which is why you prevent us from taking it out on the agenda, so that the citizens of Serbia know that it is possible to do many things that you do not allow to be done, because it has clearly ordered you, the one who gives you an order. I ask you, why can't the citizens of Serbia get free textbooks? Why do you forbid us to submit amendments to the law on free textbooks? Are our children worse than any other children? Are our children worse than a German investor, who only got a side street in Chačka, excuse me? Either from that German investor who got free land in Cacca, or from a German investor who got thousands and thousands of euros per job in Cacca and across Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74054	Thank you. Let's move on. Really. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74055	Thank you, President. The honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are again before us today the electoral laws we discussed before the introduction of the state of emergency. Now with a proposal to sign voters who support the electoral lists, they can also verify municipal or city administrations. This will facilitate the collection of signatures and the continuation of electoral actions as decided by the electoral commissions. Before the vote was called, inter-party dialogue lasted a certain time and resulted in changes and additions to certain electoral and some other laws that directly or indirectly affect the electoral process and thus we have improved the electoral process and have practically facilitated participation in the elections. At that time, the dialogue was not attended by those who have again shown great disrespect for the institutions today. The hooligans, headed by Bosca Obradovic today, made an incident outside the House of the National Assembly. They blocked the entrance of the National Assembly, harassed MPs, harassed employees in the National Assembly, physically attacked MP Marijan Risticevic, hurt him, ripped his jacket. They have today tried to prevent this legal and legitimate body, the most legislative body in the country from working, but we will still work today, because we are here because of all Serbian citizens and we are here to show what a valuable, hardworking and decent Serbia looks like. We are here to show that the House of the National Assembly is indeed a place for parliamentary dialogue and for the implementation of democracy, not for the implementation of violence. I'm sorry, honestly, that today has attracted this fascism in front of the House of the National Assembly. It is clear that they want bloodshed, they want violence, they want a threat to democracy and human rights. It is a message that Bosko Obradovic delivered today on behalf of the Alliance for Serbia and Dragan Gilas, along with all the hooligans he was with outside the House of the National Assembly. Even today, they have shown by who knows which way they would exercise power. The behavior we've had the opportunity to see is below each level. The behavior we've had the opportunity to see is below each level. Propagating fascism in Serbia needs all of us to strongly condemn because each of us can actually be targeted by these hooligans, each of us can pass by their side as my colleague Marijan Risticevic today, just because we don't share their fascist traditions. The public of Serbia must know that everyone obviously will be brutally attacked, beaten, trampled by the fascist Bosko Obradovic and his followers, anyone who does not think the same as they do, anyone who fights to make the citizens better, anyone who is trying to make sure that our children have a better future in Serbia, anyone who wants Serbia to be a modern and developed country in which there will be places for all people. And places and jobs and better lives. But, ladies and gentlemen, the hooligans of the Alliance with Serbia won't scare us because the SNS MPs, and some other MPs here today in the O.R., we do our job, we want to make it better for all of us, we want Serbia to develop, we want regular and higher salaries and pensions, a stable economy and economy. We want to live in a country without fascism and no violence will stop us from doing so. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandar Vukic, will continue to lead the country forward, because our desire and will cannot endanger or shut down any violence, and we will fight to be successfully developed and organised by Serbia, and today, Bosko Obradovic has shown and sent a message to the Alliance for Serbia, that there is a sign of equality between the Alliance for Serbia and violence. I look forward to June 21st when citizens will show that their electoral will is SNS and better Serbia, not violence and fascism.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74056	Thank you. The word has Tatjana Macura. He's not here. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74057	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. After the state of emergency has been lifted, we are back in the Serbian parliament with the goal of further improving the electoral process. However, as Serbian citizens have already been able to see, today at the entrance to Serbia's parliament, the MPs waited for Bosko Obradovic with his few supporters. His goal was to block entry into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and during that time, injured MP Marijan Risticevic was attacked. To raise hands on a MP because he doesn't think like Bosko Obradovic is a humiliation to democracy and this brutal rampage of Bosko Obradovic has been going on for four years since the beginning of this term. It began with an attack on RIK member Maja Pejcic, continuing its attack on journalists "Pinka", Gordan Zelec and her co-worker, culminating in the attack on Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic in her cabinet. For me personally, as a folk MP, this is a crucial moment because after the event, no citizen of Serbia, no MP who would have found himself or who was located near Boška Obradovic, could be sure of his reaction, so he could not be certain of his personal security. All that happened after that was for me the result of this very reaction and the attempt to break into the Serbian presidency, the wearing of the Haze at The Terrace during the protest, the invasion of RTS, the insult of President Vukic himself and his family and the insult of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, were all the consequences of the already observed cause that Bosko Obradovic tried and showed four years ago and simply continued. But what's good about all this is that the state institutions have reacted. The interior ministry has just announced that 15 supporters of Boška Obradovic have been detained today and that they will be forwarded to the criminal court for further proceedings. In this way, the state of Serbia has sent a clear message that violence will no longer be tolerated. Serbia has never been or will be on the side of fascists and yjotics. We as a state simply cannot allow ourselves to go back. We don't have time to waste any more time on failed politicians and abusers like Bosko Obradovic. It is a truth that hurts both Bosko Obradovica and Dragan Gilas, and everyone else with their supporters. The point and essence of politics is to go to elections and it is good that more and more parties change their minds and decide to go to elections. In my opinion, this is indeed one step forward in the development of parliamentaryism and in the development of democracy. The campaign will undoubtedly be difficult and complex, and it will depend on the epidemiological situation, it is quite clear. Health has passed the exam in these difficult conditions with many unknowns and with a lot of uncertainty, because so much energy, so much knowledge, so much professionality, so much humanity from our doctors and medical workers in this accident that hit us, and the whole world with Coronavirus, Serbia could see. We learned a lot from them, and I believe the moment has come when in the future we will much more appreciate doctors and health workers, and educators, and officers, and soldiers, and cashiers, and bank workers, and all those visible and invisible heroes in the state of emergency that is behind us. As far as campaigning is concerned, due to the extraordinary measures still in place, it will simply be on the online campaign, on social networks, on as many printed and electronic media as possible. Our work, first of all, is on the mind of the members of the SNS, to bring the ranks together, to continue this campaign strongly and disciplinedly, to respond to all criticisms of what we have done and to make very clear what our plans are for the next four years, not for the development of cities and municipalities, but for the development of smaller places and villages. It's our duty and our duty to the voters. The newspaper in this campaign, which is now continuing, as the June 21st elections are for the SNS, is that it represents many young people. Young people are on the electoral lists local, on the parliamentary list, and it is primarily a very important message for young people in Serbia to stay in their country, to live here, work and start their families. With such a campaign, there will be a real chance that Serbia will win the working and hardworking elections. In the day of voting, I will support these bill proposals, first of all, and because everything required by the opposition when it comes to improving electoral conditions is fulfilled and more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74058	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word is by Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74059	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I think that by considering the laws on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are making, if I may say, this one, in relation to the current situation we are in, one last step to make it even more transparent, if I may say, to improve the electoral process. The adoption of these laws will create the necessary conditions and that RIK, within its powers, will do all the electoral actions necessary to ensure that elections are held on time. In fact, so far we have dealt with the virus and its impact on the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the government has passed a great test and the whole crisis staff have done a great deal, and with the abolition of the state of emergency, of course life continues with new measures and with the behaviour that requires, if I may say, public health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's one of the primary motives why these laws have been amended. The amendments to the law take into account the preservation of citizens' health, as changes to the law increase the number of persons, i.e. institutions that can collect data with voter signatures supporting certain electoral lists. I think it's very good, because it gives the opportunity to end this part of the electoral action as easily as possible, and that all those parties who want to get into the electoral process. This is what I purposely say, those parties that want it, because, in my humble belief, there are parties that have since the beginning not wanted this electoral process and which unfortunately are violence or boycott as a basic form of political action. We had a chance to meet today with an absolute example of violence that brought us back to the 1930s. It is fascism for me, that a fellow MP on the steps of the National Assembly attack, to prevent him from entering the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to do his job, it is shameful and inadmissible, and it speaks best of those who apply these measures. Dear colleagues and colleagues should not be very surprised, unfortunately, by such behaviour, because it should be reminded that several months ago, because things may be forgotten because of this situation we had with the virus, but it should not be forgotten that they are in the context of their protests against the current government and so on. organized tours of the city turned into, the same you, supporters of these and other parties who boycotted or announced then a boycott of the election, that they had entered the RTS building and used a motor saw as a means to scare those present. That's what he says about them. Remember the attempts of violent incursion into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or other forms of deviating behaviour mentioned by the MPs. It's part of their behaviour, it's part of what some opposition supporters offer the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For them, elections are not a way to check democratic capacity, for them elections are not a way to check their influence, the reputation of citizens, and they have shown this in these past nine or ten months. I say, nine or ten months, because last August talks began with representatives of all political parties in Serbia who want to do so, in order to improve the election process. Talks began then at the FPN and later in the Assembly, and there have been serious differences in party accession that participate in the talks. Whenever there was a solution to the issue that, if I said, was open, it wasn't really a solution to improving the democratic process, it wasn't an improvement in the electoral process, it was seen as imposing a solution. Then we realized that, in fact, certain opposition parties do not want to go to the elections, that boycott is a means of political struggle they apply, that they are simply not interested in any way in improving the electoral process, that the main objective of their attack is the ruling coalition and president of the Republic, that it is essential to prevent the President of the Republic from doing its job, to prevent the Government and ministers from doing their job and to ensure media presence at all costs. Of course, the task of the media is that, in the best possible and professional way, they show everything that political parties promote or what public function holders are doing, but this is about preventing public function holders from doing their job. Thus, if you remember, respected colleagues and colleagues, the term “functionary campaign” is used. The expression, in fact, sets out a clear intention to prohibit public office holders from doing their regular work at the time the elections are scheduled or at the time of holding an election campaign. It is contrary to the logic of democracy, it is the opposite, if I may say, of the work that these elected persons should do because, in fact, they have received one democratic capacity from citizens in the previous elections to do their jobs during their term of office, and on the other hand, it is quite logical that they can step forward in public and declare everything that a particular ministry or government or state intends to do. I find it interesting to see how these mediators will behave with good intentions that participated in the talks on improving electoral conditions. Because, not wanting to doubt their good intentions, I would like to see that with the same degree of energy that requires some things in Serbia to improve or criticise some things in Serbia as not good enough, that with the same degree of energy and condemnation of the savagery that was here today in the Assembly, attack on our fellow MP and condemn other forms of behavior that can be called either way, just not expressing political opinion. I must tell you that, unfortunately, I am disappointed with the behaviour of colleagues sitting here in the Assembly, who now belong to the opposition, who are trying to minimize in their public statements this attack on counterpart Risticevic and, unfortunately, is talking about the current opposition, about the great part of the current opposition, and that they do not care about the democratic process, that they do not care about any other than, of course, personal affirmation. I think that, taking into account, of course, the state of public health and the recommendations the crisis staff makes to all participants of the electoral process, I think that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be in a situation that on 21 June, since it has been announced that the term has been agreed at a meeting of the presidents with representatives of parliamentary parties, or all of those parties who wish to participate in the upcoming elections, will have the opportunity to express their political position. It is important that elections be held in a good atmosphere. I think that in the past almost a year with these talks that have been conducted, with proposals that have been accepted from these round tables or here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted at the end of the year, I think good conditions have been created for making elections and I think that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will know who they want as their representatives. I mention this because the existing electoral conditions were all set, until these changes, by all the laws that were passed before 2008, in 2012 and they were considered to be an optimal democratic framework for holding elections. All of a sudden, all of these laws were the subject of criticism and a negative attitude was taken against them. Of course, it speaks for itself about the double arches that exist and the way the opposition behaves. If they're okay, then everything's fine, and if they're not okay, then nothing's wrong. Don't be surprised, respected citizens, what we experience from individual MEPs or from some other international organisations a certain kind of criticism. Unfortunately, it is not only the support of people, some of the opposition here in Serbia, it speaks of their relationship with Serbia, because there are circles that simply do not want Serbia to be a democratic state, that Serbia is a state with full integrity, that can make decisions on its own on its foreign policy or choose its own friends. Of course our commitment is to be a member of the European Union, but that does not mean that we should have a subjective relationship with Brussels or anyone, while our negotiation process is ongoing, and hopefully afterwards, it is quite logical that as a democratic country we can choose our friends. Up until a few years ago, we talked about Russia's soft power and its influence on Balkan countries, including Serbia, and now we're talking about Russia's soft power and the influence of that soft power on the Balkan countries, and no one wants to publicly say that the same China is first, or second among the EU's external trade partners, when we talk about exporting or importing goods. So what's good for some European Union countries individually, this co-operation with China, is bad if Serbia does. I think it's a kind of hypocrisy that exists, perhaps misunderstandings, but I mean part of hypocrisy and intend that Serbia, if I may say so, has no integrity involved in a geopolitical game that exists amongst the great forces, because the European Union considers itself a force of creation. She is in economic terms, but in military and political terms she is far from it, and she would like to be. In any case, all the things that have been happening to us over the past few months have given us the opportunity to perhaps see more clearly than before our position and, if I may say so, to sharpen the angle in relation to both our European integrations and our internal affairs. European integration will go its own way. I am fully convinced that Serbia has administrative and other capacities to meet the set conditions, except for the famous Chapter 35, but that's where Serbia has shown it has democratic capacity, because it also signed the Brussels Agreement. It is interesting that almost no one by the European Union mentions it, nor mentions that the other side, Pristina, has fulfilled part of its obligations, but this speaks of the behaviour of individual leaders of the European Union and of the attitude towards Serbia. As for the election, I am fully convinced that they will flow into the democratic atmosphere. I know the Department of State and Local Self-Government has done a lot of things to advance that part of the electoral process that the Ministry is bound by direct obligations. I think the fact that, here, I'm only going to mention one example, is that every citizen, after the elections have been completed, can check that not by accident someone voted on his behalf deserves praise and speaks of a good job that the ministry has done, not to mention an orderly voter list, not to mention the education of officials, not to mention the education of members of election committees. I want to say that the state has done everything on its part to improve the electoral process, increase the democratic capacity of the Republic of Serbia and make elections in Serbia as in other countries. But this is a kind of pressure that is being made towards Serbia, and also those issues that are being experienced in other countries as if I can say regular, here we are being seen as extraordinary. It is good, Mr. Minister, that you have proposed these amendments to the law and safeguarding the health of people to give the opportunity to give another number of political parties who want it or those who have failed in the deadlines that were before the introduction of the state of emergency to collect signatures that they can do, and then leave the citizens an opportunity to evaluate all of us by the programmes and by the ideas that we promote, and not by these ugly things that some of us, unfortunately, apply. We simply hope that according to the estimates and all that our Crisis Headquarters has done, in the meantime, that Corona will disappear as a species, if I may say, of the health challenge to which we are exposed, and that citizens will be in a position to choose who they want and that after the next election, we will take a step. The SPS parliamentary group will vote on all these amendments in the voting day, because we believe that these solutions are improving the further electoral process, and it takes care of citizens' health as the most important thing in the world, because you know for free we are talking about democracy. That's what I'm gonna end up with. We're free to talk about democracy if we don't take care of people, because if there's no people, there's no democracy. So I'm glad you put people's health first when you explained the passing of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74060	Thank you, Professor Obradovic. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74061	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, honourable fellow MPs. After the suspension of the state of emergency imposed on March 15th due to the Koronavirus pandemic, Serbia slowly returns to regular life flows. Of course, this does not mean that all precautions continue to apply. We still need to adhere to the applicable measures that need to prevent the possible continuation of the epidemic. I would take advantage of the opportunity to praise the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic and our medical experts who have taken a serious package of measures that Serbia has been very successful in fighting the Kovid 19 pandemic that has affected the whole world, caused huge human losses. Serbia, though the small country has achieved more successful results than much more developed and economically powerful countries. Such a result confirms the quality of our health system that is socially responsible and that each citizen has the same treatment in treating this virus. In this fight against almost unknown infectious disease, Serbia had friends. She further strengthened her friendship with her traditional friends China and Russia, who gave us great help even though they were affected by this pandemic themselves. Thank you for that, thank you, and all the other countries that have helped us with their donations, as well as those countries that have provided us with medical equipment. The aid confirms that Serbia has provided a stable international position and reputation with its foreign policy. During this pandemic, it also confirmed the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which in co-operation with many countries of the world managed to organise the return of over 15,000 of our citizens from a large number of countries around the world. Also, the foreign ministry has organised the return of foreign citizens who found themselves in Serbia at the time of the pandemic to their country of origin. Many countries have received a letter of gratitude from our foreign minister. He would especially take this opportunity to thank the Ministry of Health as well as all healthcare professionals, doctors, medical technicians and his non-medical staff in our healthcare system who risked their health, even saving their lives for citizens many of them lost their lives. Among the doctors was Dr. Lazic from the medical center, who is a proven expert, and above all, a great patriot to whom our country should gradually repay because he is a hero of today. I would especially point out the importance of fighting Kovid with our healthcare professionals at KIM. We with KIM have said that we are in double isolation because part of the Serb people south of Iber who has lived in enclaves has been isolated for 20 years. I also thank all the other workers who were able to provide and live in isolation days. Here I think of the sellers, the pharmacists, the Red Cross, all volunteers, the city's cleanliness, our agricultural producers, city transport, taxi drivers and everyone else who worked day and night during the emergency. I would like to remind you that at the last session, we adopted a decision on the end of the state of emergency and a law marked on 11 May as the day on which the electoral actions that were interrupted by the day of the emergency, because the elections called before the emergency is imposed must end in accordance with the law. This time the choice will take place in somewhat different conditions, but we need to learn to live with a virus that is certainly not completely missing, that is to say, we respect another number of measures that protect health from infectious diseases, that is to say, preventing the possibility of further spread of the epidemic. That doesn't mean life should stop. We must continue all activities that have been interrupted by the occurrence of the pandemic. We must, therefore, complete the elections, because it is in accordance with both the law and the Constitution. When it comes to proposals for election laws from today's agenda, I would say that they offer a practical solution, which is that over the signing of voters who want to support certain local, regional or parliamentary lists other than public notebooks and courts can now be certified by local, or city administrations. This will facilitate this election process during this period when, due to Kovid-19, we still have to respect social distance measures to protect the population from the epidemic by giving legal authority to municipal and city administrations to verify voter signatures. This gives another possibility to all interested parties and coalitions who did not do so until an emergency is introduced to hand over their electoral lists with a faster overture of voter signatures. Therefore, elections will be held in line with the legal deadlines that will be revised by election committees at all levels at which the elections are held. I also use this opportunity to thank Minister Ruzic and the ministry whose head of election law amendments were proposed and because during the state of emergency they were in constant communication with local self-government to identify and address all needs and problems, and their projects of support to local self-government contributed significantly to improving the efficiency of the work of local authorities and inspection services. Also, there should be a huge contribution from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to the update of the Single Election List, which is certainly an important condition for the implementation of democratic and fair elections. At the end of what is important to say, and given this moment and events, even the behaviour of certain opposition leaders like today was the case and where I join all colleagues who have condemned the way and scandalous behaviour, Mr. Bosko Obradovic. Some representatives of the opposition's actions, those who wish there was no choice but to come to power, are that all have the opportunity to participate in the elections if they collect the required number of voters' signatures and to win the vote. With the conclusion that these legal solutions are improving the electoral process, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74062	Thank you, Mr. Stevic. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74063	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's great to have Minister Ruzic here, since I asked some questions last time, so he's gone, but there's no Minister Loncar now, but here I will immediately start with questions for Mr Ruzic, as the local government's competent minister, i.e. the state administration and local self-government. Mr. Ruzic, a lot of people are asking what's wrong with the voter list? You have repeatedly boasted that he is better, good, updated, better than ever. Personally, I don't think it's the main source of our problems, but one part of the public and the citizens think it and there's a lot of illustrations about it. One of the most common is the mention of the fact that the voter list has, you know, how many people in it, and that this list provides for these 100 euros, as well as the number of ID cards in the country of Serbia, issued ID cards, as well as these persons who have the right to these 100 euros of free aid, operate with a figure of five and a half million, and there are over six million and five hundred thousand in the census, now I don't know what the last figure is. How does that difference of nearly a million, and not nearly, over a million more citizens in the polling list? I believe that this is about people who are abroad, but there should be some selection, after how many years, up to how many years, etc., staying abroad, people express themselves on the electoral list. Because, like this, there is a concern that there is room for abuse because of this difference between the number of real, real-life citizens in the country of Serbia and how many there are, which means over a million, or almost a million, difference in the voter list. Regarding these concrete suggestions, I asked the question and now I repeat it. If you really wanted to democratisation and improve the conditions, as well as facilitate participation in the election race, i.e. participation in the election race, why did you not reduce the number of mandatory signatures for the list of participants? Of course we've already entered the election process, but we've also taken a break. We have changed twice in the election year election laws, which is due to these agreements and the results of negotiations with representatives of the European Parliament and this inter-party dialogue, which is now due to the state of emergency and the crown. I mean, if it really wanted to be more democratic and make it easier for those political entities to participate in the elections as much as possible, why, if we're reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, you haven't reduced the number of mandatory signatures from 10,000 to 6,000, and for local councilmen from 30 to 18 signatures? Now, you know it best because you're the local self-government minister, that in smaller places, besides these few largest cities, in fact most or almost all, or three-quarters of citizens with voting rights actually appear as signatories of some lists, those who sign the list. It makes the whole political process a little absurd. I wanted to ask you these two specific questions about the voter list and about these measures that should be democratisation and facilitating participation in the elections as many political entities as possible. This is so that instead of notaries, notaries, can be verified in city and municipality management units, it's, like I said, a measure of mother's soul. It's nothing, it's not mint tea. It's nothing important, except it's going to slow down the crowd at the notaries a little bit and the risk of infection when you collect the signatures. Because now you're going to have a hard time getting out, or at least a lot harder, citizens to give you a signature, whatever they give you, to get in line and wait for people. If it really wanted to be made easier and democratisation, then what I suggested could be done -- to reduce the number of mandatory signatures due to a specific epidemiological situation. That's the key. I repeat and end it, I believe that for these medical reasons, epidemiological, now it turns out that our leading doctors don't know when the virus came to Serbia, not whether it's the beginning of March or March 5th, which was a dilemma, but whether it was January, February or December, and they themselves admit that they don't know when, how many months before we had the virus in Serbia, I don't say that, that's what your members of the professional staff said, then it can easily happen that they also don't know at this point how dangerous it is and when it's going to be in Serbia. Therefore, for these reasons too, and for political reasons not to talk, about the unloving scenes and who knows what else is waiting for us, which I neither want nor desire, on the contrary. All my suggestions are directed and directed to avoid these unloved scenes, which do not suit me personally, neither politically nor to us as a society or a state. I know it's not you who decide, but maybe there's room and time to think at the level of the government and the ruling majority that this gesture is done and that's how it relaxes the political, and I'd say the health situation, just by prolonging the deadline. I'm not looking for any technical and transitional governments, I'm going to say it right now, because I think it's stupid and it shouldn't be asked, because, after all, we're just being ridiculous with that request. Let this government rule, when the government's little outside anyway, come out of the constitutional and legal framework because of this state of emergency, a month or two, so that three or four months this government and parliament come out, so that we have elections in as many democratic conditions as possible. So, we're not going to solve the key thing that elections need to make possible, and that's stabilising and descaling political life, but on the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74064	The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74065	Thank you. I'm really sorry if I left the gym during that short period of time when you asked those questions and thank you for those questions you probably referred to. Whether it's mint tea or not, I just want to point you to the fact that here the government of the Republic of Serbia's intention is just public health. So the two amendments and the addition of two electoral laws and the law represented by Minister Loncar are now in the role of protecting the health of the population. When you say - your members of the health department, I don't understand what that means? Yours or ours? I guess these epidemiologists, infectologists, people who are politically neutral, who are professional, who have just borne the greatest burden of responsibility in proposing the measures that the government has adopted and, of course, to define all that is necessary to counter this virus. As for the single voter list, I stand by what I've been saying, now I can say all these years, that the unique voter list is becoming more and more up-to-date every day. That's very verifiable. So it's not mint tea. We were able to connect the register of parent books by electronic means to the unique electoral list, primarily the home book of the dead and the home book of the married. Otherwise, the unique polling list has been updated daily since 2012, so do you, Mr Vukadinović, of course. Using electronic connection, we have only perfected this update, which was definitely necessary and is necessary and we do not want any stain to remain when any election process is carried out. All relevant institutions are familiar with this fact and I don't see any reason to now again for who knows what time they're talking about the single polling list as some problem that's going to jeopardize the regularity of some election game, because it's simply not true, it's not standing and it's not justified, I would say it's not correct. You've put it in line with what the finance ministry has proposed and you're allegedly suggesting that there's been some discrepancy in the number of voters enrolled. I can't tell you the exact number of voters enrolled. You will officially receive that information in accordance with the law before only holding elections, whether it is 6,500,000 or 6,700,000, because the daily single voter list is updated. Unfortunately, there are fatal outcomes, but also, fortunately, many children gain adulthood and get the right to vote in the elections and to use their active or passive voting rights. As you know, what I assume you know, and perhaps you don't want to say, is that one not so few of our citizens who also have an active residence in the Republic of Serbia live outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. When I say not so small, I can't make any approximations, but that must be close to a million citizens of Serbia. Do they need us to suspend voting rights if they have an active residence here? Is that a violation of one of the human rights and political rights? Of course it is. You don't have to make a name for it. I know it can be of political use to you. That's nice for spinning, nice for manipulation. In my opinion, it's not correct, and I wouldn't say it's legitimate, but in any case, I think we need to divulge all these suspicions that there's anything that could in any way endanger the regularity of the election because of these facts. As for the number of signatures, I will remind you that already after the opening of the dialogue, after all the representatives of the opposition's work had done here in parliament, two years had not been in parliament, so in some way they acted to return this dialogue with the help of both the European Parliament and the EU, first to the Faculty of Political Sciences, then here to parliament, to return to the dialogue and to talk about all this, I will remind you that one of the epilogues and these talks was the shift of the elections from the beginning of March, so the elections could already be over before the emergency and the outbreak of this pandemic, and what would be? So, precisely because of these talks and because the government of the Republic of Serbia wanted different measures, amendments and additions to the law, practically, advanced, not only legislation, but also electoral conditions for all those who wanted to participate in the elections. That's why these elections were effectively moved to April 26th. Next thing you know, it's what's coming. We had an emergency, a pandemic, a struggle with that monster. We have shown as a state, as a government, as a health system that we can deal with with all the resources we have, which are certainly not at the highest possible level as in some large, developed countries, and now we are in a position to make this proposal to make it even easier for those who want to participate in the elections, which they did not do in the previous period, before introducing an emergency, but above all, it is imperative for us to take care of the health of the nation, about public health, and I think it is for every well-intentioned MP, citizen of Serbia, and I don't think that this should be at all disputed at all, to increase the number of authorised signifiers, to reduce the risk of the presence of a larger number of actors in these election activities, and that is something that was only possible as a proposal to do. The reduction of the number of necessary signatures to hand over the lists after the election is called, which are called, if I am not mistaken, and you correct me, on March 2rd and 3rd, depending on the level of election cycles we are talking about, whether local or regional or parliamentary, with the fact that over 550, nearly 600,000 signatures have been certified for different political papers and that all by law were obliged to collect 10,000 signatures for parliamentary elections and to verify them at the notaries, and for local elections to collect 30 signatures per council seat for each list, then, firstly, it would be illegal. We could also get to the Constitutional Court if we decided to do what you're proposing, to reduce the number of necessary signatures, because then it's a change in election conditions. You entered one of the rules of the election game or any game, and then you change the rules while that game lasts. Your proposal is legitimate, it's not at all controversial, it's just not timely and it's not disputed to suggest such a thing. It can be discussed in a nearer or further future, but it should also be remembered who is what, when and how he proposed in this previous period of time and not so long ago. I have not noticed that many have complained that they need a limit of 10,000 signatures and that it takes 30 signatures for each council seat in the local elections. All in all, I wanted to answer you, too, but also for the citizens, and not to have any indiscretions. I think I gave you a reasonable answer. I could talk a lot wider about this, but important for the public, simply, that they don't have any kind of concern about the single electoral list and that anyone has any concern about respect for democratic principles, democratic values, laws that exist in our positive right. It's something that I suppose is the obligation of all responsible people, especially officials, to comply and to act accordingly. After all, these changes and additions will certainly be the subject of the vote in the voting day, so we will see if they will be voted. I would remind you, among other things, that there were topics in the discussion of all the lists that expressed their willingness to participate in the elections with the President of the Republic. I think it should also be shown, at least on your part, one dose of co-ordination according to that part of the opposition political spectrum that has shown such a desire that, in addition to public health, the need for them to come to an oversignation as easily as possible is met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74066	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74067	Thank you, Chairman. I believe you could do even wider than these 11 minutes, Mr. Minister. And I would, believe me, be able to, and I have to stop in two minutes. So I asked you a question about the ballot to clarify. I want a good political and demographic process in this country, no matter how many times I wonder if and who really wants it well. So, you need to remove unreal doubts. Similarly, when it comes to migrants and these similar issues, it means that what is exaggerated and unreal, and it responds to those legitimate objections, suspicions and public dilemmas. Here, now you've said that about a million, you consider it about a million, although no one can say exactly, with an active residence, there are our citizens who are abroad, I'm just going back to saying that it's a number that leaves the possibility and space for abuses, but you have to explain to people that it doesn't automatically mean that they're dead souls, as one good part of the citizens thinks. No, but the fact that various... I know, I personally became convinced with my eyes and some of my friends, dozens of some strange calls arrive at the addresses of people who have never lived there and indeed you have it all over not only Belgrade, but also other places in Serbia. Just think about it and see how it happens, and it happens, Mr. Rose. Secondly, as far as these 10,000 signatures are concerned, I asked the time you weren't present, do you know the country, in which countries there is this 10,000-signature condition for parliamentary elections? I'm not talking about the presidential election. So it's just undemocratic. Let's adopt these changes, let them apply from the next election cycle, it doesn't matter. It is simply pointless and serves as only one partocratic measure to prevent or reduce the number of people's opportunities to really participate in democratic election processes. Finally, as far as these amendments are concerned, I suggested it before the epidemic. When we adopted the previous changes, I had an amendment where I said... So I wasn't waiting for us to get into the political process, so let me suggest, which then is really meant to be said -- well, now they're not the same conditions. I stress, we have already come out of the constitutional and legal framework because of the state of emergency. So I appeal to the good will, first of all, of the ruling majority. That sounds like a crying voice in the desert or to speak to the deaf, to show the width that you've supposedly demonstrated here by now, so that really measures and moves are made that will allow as wide as possible and that more representative participation in the elections is precisely due to the democratisation and descalation of this potential of conflict that, unfortunately, exists in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74068	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74069	Thank you, Chairman. Right away, I had the honor and opportunity to be a member of RIK and the largest number of voters we had ever established was in 2012. Then there were 6,770,000 and more voters, and then no one wondered how we had that number of voters, but I guess now it's desirable to throw away manipulation. By the way, we've always had fewer voters in all the next election processes because the list has been updated. We've been listening to all kinds of theories here, as apparently someone is moving a certain number of voters from the municipality to the municipality, which, of course, is a notorious lie, because you can check it out, just go to the police station, and see who registered there with the residence. I mean, it's totally amazing what's been invented here. You know, that's when you have no argument, then you reach for lies. It's really an electoral list, and it was one of the topics when we went to the FPN to talk to the opposition representatives, it was one of the first topics, where they said the elections were fake, like this, because the voter list was bad, and then they convinced themselves, and even the international representatives convinced them, and eventually, they were convinced by these NGOs that it was a pointless topic and that there was no conspiracy, so they gave up the story. Then you moved on to REM, everything else, etc. Now, speaking of REM, since we're talking about dictatorship here, censorship in the media, I don't know what, now to see what it looks like. So this REM is only living up to us that we are, say, part of the government. They do not react once when N1 or Nova S television, flagrantly violates the law of this country, because these are foreign televisions, these are not televisions registered in Serbia, you cannot sue them, whatever the announcements, because whenever you come to court, they say - we are not subject to the laws of the Republic of Serbia, we are registered in Luxembourg, wherever, and broadcast a political programme, which they should not otherwise, because under our law, they would have to broadcast the programme in Luxembourg, and then re-emission it here in Serbia at the same time. It means that, for example, Olja Bećkovic must have a studio in Luxembourg, or Slovenia, as they told us, but in Luxembourg, so that at the same time she re-emitting it here. I never told REM not to talk about commercials. The TV on which I run the program pays an orderly tax to this country for every commercial. They broadcast commercials, they don't pay anyone taxes. REM never warned them, but that's why REM ordered my shows to go down, even though the TV I'm working on, that's why. On which I run the show, it's not in the focus of REM, it's not even in those REM recommendations, it's under surveillance, but they've made a recommendation to take off my show. It's so in Wolf's dictatorship. They can break the law, they can do whatever they want, they can not pay taxes to the state, and they can broadcast a political programme. Imagine, for example, the situation where we now make television here in Serbia, and we broadcast a program in Germany and talk against Angela Merkel. You know, as much as that TV could work out there, it couldn't work for two seconds. You'd get Special Forces in there and they'd shut you down for seconds, or in France to broadcast a program like that so we could broadcast against McCron. And here, as you can see, it's allowed, and they're talking about dictatorship. We're talking about dictatorship, where those who say that dictatorship is stationed outside the Assembly, outside the door of the assembly, beat up the MPs of power. And we're talking about dictatorship. Do you know where anywhere in the world you should stand in front of the assembly door and not let the MPs in yet, beat up the MPs? Imagine in America in front of Congress to come sit down and, say, beat up a congressman. You'd be arrested, jail time would get, you wouldn't see, I mean one 10 years, brother to brother, like that. Here, as you can see, anything can. He can do anything. Get into the police station. And we're talking about dictatorship. They're complaining about election conditions. I remember the period and in 2012, there was Radio Focus, where I ran the program, and they kept interrupting, or they cut his cables, or whatever, and the daily "Justice". There were two media outlets where you were allowed to say something against Tadic and Gilas. All the other media were absolutely like the Soviet Union at Stalin's time, for example. Absolutely as these two warrant you, Tadic or Gilas, and they depended on Gilas's commercials, because if his company doesn't give you a commercial, you can't survive as a medium and fail, and you had to listen to your boss play. In their Serbia, you had a mayor, a functioner, a vice-president of the party, who owned the media, officially registered in the register together with Miskovic, the owner of the daily "Pres". Just imagine today, Mr. Arsic, since you're sitting here, imagine just that situation, let's say Alexander Vukic owns some media where he's listed somewhere in the APR. You can only imagine that situation. Well, look. And now they're telling you about democracy, about censorship, about what. It's a paradox of its kind. I just have to say something. What happened this morning, don't make any more jokes. I've been through them, I've been through them very proudly. They're rabbits. They moved right away because they were cowards. But if they accidentally came forward, maybe I'd get beat up, but one of them would have been knocked out. Don't make a joke. I'm a National MP and I'm coming to my job. This is a bunch of hooligans and lunatics who came here to stop us from entering the Assembly building. I wouldn't wait for a police reaction that didn't seem to have happened and I have to really criticize the police, it's embarrassing how the police reacted, because a beat-up colleague, and I swear to you, I'd put my teeth down someone's throat and I wouldn't play with it. No one has the right to do this to me, and I'd be willing to protect myself. I avoid any conflict in my life, I don't like it, I'm not a conflict person, but if someone did something like that to me, it wouldn't be a good time. I'm not saying I might get beat up, which is normal, but I'm sure one of them would get hurt. I would really ask the police, the security of this parliament not to play anymore, but to prevent the savages who come to the door of the Assembly and forbid the MPs to come in. There's something else I need to say. In that Voicer dictatorship, you have protests where there are no police. You can imagine a protest, you have no police anywhere, do whatever you want, surround the presidency. I was declared a hooligan because I lit a torch on my own terrace, and I was declared a hooligan by those who entered RTS with a saw, who set the whole torch on fire in front of RTS. I guess they're democratic torches. I was declared a hooligan by those who tried to violently enter here with the flag of the Republic of Serbia at the House's door, tried violently to enter months ago, those who surrounded the presidency and said -- we will capture the president of the state. They call you a hooligan. Those who are on that tape, remember, ordered to attack a police vehicle, throw out a cop and pick up a truck, etc. They're telling you about hooliganism, and today they came, here, and they realized what they seemed to want, to beat up the MPs. By the way, I argue, Marijan Risticevic, he acts like this, he is growing smaller, that one in one would get out of Boško Obradovic's shoes and cowardly girl, escapes regularly. He's strong when he's in a pack, like this when he brings them in like a horde. And they came across a weaker one, of course, because they saw an older man. When someone stronger approaches them, they run like rabbits. They have the heart of rabbits. That's why I call on our members not to be afraid of them at all. Avoid them, of course, in a wide circle, there's no reason to confront them, there's no need, but if someone attacks you, so of course we'll defend ourselves. I would never give in to one of those for a millimetre, absolutely never, because they did something terrible today, in the lobby when we celebrate victory over fascism, 75 years old, they tried to implement our methods from the Munich brewery today, in the '30s, of course. Now, that, wave, we won't let them. This form of political action, we will never allow it, because it is not Serbia. Serbia is one normal country in which, above all, the worldly people and the Holy One are somewhere in our hearts and souls and it always opposes such ideologys as those fascist, even Nazi, as a subtype of fascist ideology. It's the difference. What Obradovic does, it's pure Nazism. This even SS troops, those SS troops didn't work. So, Mr. Arsic, I hope on Sunday, seeing as they're announcing that they're coming back here, someone is protecting this building and we're going to be able to work normally. What they announce insurrection, they'll never get power on the street. I guarantee you that, never. Since I don't know which one of them is going to the polls anymore, because you're... I just need to explain something to the citizens. You have an abnormal situation, you have yesterday the former president of the state calling to vote for the boycott list, and now imagine a paradoxical situation and, say, that list wins the election, would you boycott your own power? Is it normal for someone to play with the state to this extent? Secondly, you have this one who called for a boycott, now he's going to the election. They, for example, kicked out of the entire Democratic Party absolutely every prominent man, out of the party, who was against the boycott, and today they are pushing for the election. It's totally crazy. They've made confusion with their voters and I'm not sorry about it, but I just want to show people what kind of people they are and what Serbia could expect if they were to rule. They would calculate themselves with political opponents by beating them, they would not suffer a different opinion. I repeat again, you know what, if I'm supposed to be the victim of that Vucician dictatorship, so I think they're taking off the show, the infamous REM, and REM is infamous to us who are part of the government, then it's really scary. I have to ask - what's this about? How is it possible that someone is breaking the law, like the N1 and the "New S" and that REM never warns them, and that one of the TVs that they say is not being watched is not being watched, so what are you asking them to forbid it, if it's not so watched? All in all, I call on the citizens of 21 June to come out as much as possible on this vote, just as we had this morning, never again, to go to the dump site of history and to be one normal, prosperous, civilized country where freedom of mind will certainly be respected and in which it will forever be said – stop violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74070	I thank my colleague Djukanovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, so I'd like to continue where my colleague Djukanovic left off, because he said a lot to the citizens of Serbia in this way to those who see how our political opponents behave, what they do, what some independent institutions in this country have and the different archaics they use, and in fact they should work in the interests of Serbian citizens, but we can try to defend Mr Djukanovic's show. Here I am ready to come, so you and I can chain ourselves to chairs and sit in front of the cameras, so they can come and take us out. If they try to ban the show, because I don't see why it would be a show that doesn't propagate violence, which is being carried out by our allies in the Alliance for themselves, as I like to call them, then I don't see why that show would be a problem. Otherwise, I'd like to say why these changes are good. Here we heard earlier from the minister, for the simple reason that we are protecting the public health of Serbian citizens in this way, and all these remarks we hear and attacks on the current government in Serbia for some time, we will see what the citizens will say on 21 June... I am convinced that again the list led by President Vukic will be a convincing winner in these elections, but this story of democracy, tyranny, etc. It's falling into the water. One of my colleagues, it seems to me, Mr Obradovic mentioned that we often like to represent, even here in this hall, as well as in the media, individuals who make statements from institutions, such as the EU, as EU views. For example, co-worker Tanja Fajon, who we have meetings with here in that joint committee to control the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, where she is less calm, is not as we see her when she appears in these SNN media in Serbia, and then gives different statements and behaves differently. Here, when she communicates and talks with us, she gets arguments that need to be quieted down a little bit and not act that way, but she's not the European Union, she's one MP who belongs to the weaker and weaker groups in Europe. I am sorry that these groups in Serbia are not responding to protect Serbia, something I don't see much debated with it, which belongs to the Social Democratic option, but they don't even do all the Social Democrats in Europe, although they collect a few MPs in that parliament, who ask some questions, and comment on the situation in Serbia in their own way. However, the EU itself deny it every day, every hour. First, you have no statement from any institution that speaks in such a way, official. So, institutions, I'm not talking about individuals, the European Council, the European Commission, the European Parliament, some foreign affairs committee. You never have a critical attitude towards Serbia, but only words of praise and praise for Serbia and the situation in Serbia, whether it is an economic situation, whether it is a migrant crisis, whether it is a response to the pandemic. Every time we heard only words of praise in the official statements and official documents we have from the EU, so far Serbia has been helped with 197m euros. Why if it's a non-democratic state? The package measures three billion and 300m euros in response to the consequences of the epidemic. The European Investment Bank has already allocated a billion and 700m euros to the Western Balkans, where officials themselves said Serbia would get the biggest package, because it is the most ready, of which money to work and develop. The Council of Ministers itself asked, meaning the governments of the Member States, of the Commission to prepare an investment package for the economy in September. Why if Serbia is a non-democratic country? Why is all this done if Serbia is a non-democratic country? No, Serbia is a democratic country that has a problem with a group of opposition parties that are not an alternative, which have no programme, which nothing can offer, which is what I say to you, follow June 21st, election day, and you will see that between 2:00 and 9:00 p.m. that evening, the EU will officially congratulate Serbia's citizens for democratically held elections in Serbia. You will see, on June 21st, after 20.00 hours, when results start to arrive, the EU will congratulate Serbia on holding European elections and will not be the only one. Congratulations to Russia. Congratulations and the United States. She will also be congratulated by Norway, which is not members of the EU and Switzerland and Turkey, etc. All will congratulate Serbia on holding democratic elections and freely expressed will for Serbian citizens. Therefore, these individuals in certain states and institutions that make statements mean nothing. I'd like to say one more thing, that's all. On one subject. We are few these days, because we have been pressured by the problem, because we have been a problem with Kovid – 19 we have been pressured and we have been concerned about the health of our oldest who have been most threatened by this virus. We've been paying attention, it seems to me much less to those who have sacrificed themselves in the least the same way or sacrificed as the older people who have been imprisoned and suffered very severe measures, because they have been in great danger, which are young people. Some of them, for example, those who are 18, 19, 20 years old, will now make their first election in June of the month. These people, these children, these people, of course, these young people put their lives on hold to save their lives. They had to be locked up. Imagine someone 18 years old, 17 years old, you lock him up and can't go to save their grandparents' lives. These people and those children sacrificed a lot. The Minister has one appeal for you. I thought I'd say that when he was Minister of Health here, I believe he's going to that crisis headquarters that's still working and he's taking care of the health problems of the epidemic and pandemic. I think we should all join this and try to find a solution. You know, at 65, you remember or don't remember a summer, you lose it or you don't lose it, or 53 as much as I do, but when you're 18, you don't go on a field trip, and you might have planned for the first time to approach your sympathies, or when you're 18, you're a senior and you don't have a prom. You're the girl who needs it, she's getting ready for a year to buy a prom dress and then she can't buy it because she doesn't have a prom. She'll never get back in her life that night. We've all sacrificed something, but none of us have sacrificed such a thing in this fight, their prom night, those prom days will ever come back. I appeal to everyone in the government and to the Crescent headquarters to try to find a way of organization, not to disrupt the public health of those children, to organize prom nights and to allow them to do so. I don't think it's too late, it's May moon, it can be done and prepared, of course, with the measures it takes, that the crisis staff assess what these measures are. These people will thank us, and they don't have to be grateful because it belongs to them. We've all had it, and I don't see why that generation couldn't live with it. So I ask everyone, I think we should do it and try it that way to help them. These changes we make will allow all the lists to all those who support them, who want to participate in the elections, to safely lead to the necessary number of signatures. Those who don't get together have nothing to look for in the election. This one, who came in front of the building today, he came in front of the building, the other day he was making an incident, and today he's making a real one, and he's acting like the last bully, because he doesn't know otherwise, but he's doing it. This is what I'm saying to make Serbian citizens hear, because these people called him Democrats, they left him down the water, so he'd go to the polls, but he thinks that a serious politician is the only one who's been arrested, and he's never, ever, ever been arrested. He's never been arrested and provoked and everything he does is trying to turn out to be a martyr. Let him, let him continue to suffer, let him try further, cannot by violence and provocation come to the vote only with the programme and what you can offer the citizens of Serbia who will then assess who will make life better, because from day to day we are obliged to give our citizens a better life, greater earnings, more jobs, greater pensions, peace of stability and security. No shouting weapons, no wars, no announcements, no catastrophic situations. Of course, we all, we've seen it these days and to pay attention in the coming period, we need health to get to all of this. Once again, I urge all citizens to go to the 21st of June elections and choose the best, and I think it's the list of President Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74072	Thank you. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74073	Thank you, Chairman. The law we are talking about today is aimed at allowing over-signing voters to vote for political parties they want to support in local, regional and republican elections. So, overta signatures both in municipal and city administrations. These are regulations that respect a new reality in which additional protection of the health and safety of citizens is necessary in the conditions of combating Kovid – 19. These are just some in a series of regulations that we have already amended and adopted to improve the electoral process, which was also the result of democratic talks and political parties' dialogue during last summer, autumn and early winter, along with the intermediation and the euro of parliamentarians. In this context, however, it is important to consider the fact that no regulation is good enough for those who are targeted at violence. So what the MPs today faced by coming to work is purely naked and undiscovered violence. It's not politics, it's not a political program, it's not an idea. It is violence that must be absolutely condemned by society as a whole, of all those who respect, value freedom, justice, justice and democracy. The attitude of the SDPS is absolutely clear and unequivocal, no kind of violence, no matter who it comes from, to whom it is referred is not acceptable. The elections are the only place where political forces and the strength of ideas offered by political parties participating in the elections are measured and then citizens only give confidence and voice in the elections. Political struggle is being fought exclusively in parliament, not on the street. Tomorrow is the day of victory over fascism. Serbia paid an extremely high price in the fight for freedom during World War II. Freedom doesn't mean that anyone can do what comes to his mind. Freedom to live in its full capacity implies both some rules and some rights and obligations. Freedom is not lawlessness. The freedom of individuals is limited by the freedoms and rights of other people. It is legitimate to think differently, it is legitimate to use in a political struggle all the means you can remember, provided that it does not in any way endanger the freedom and rights of other people. Violence is not freedom, nor can it lead to freedom. Divinity is not a legitimate political struggle. Freedom is respect for the right to a different opinion, respect for the rules, respect for the law, respect for its own state and people. Here, unfortunately, we are in the process of jeopardizing the fundamental human rights of individuals and democratic values and preventing the civilization's progress in Serbia and our entire society. And today it is necessary to send from this home more than a clear message from this place that it will never pass in Serbia. Violence and rationality, individual and personal frustrations due to feelings of impotence and lower values are always the result of an unsatisfactory need for personal importance and importance. You want to change Serbia? Start by yourself. Don't do anything else you don't want to do to yourself. It's that simple. There's a living idea that you represent. Be that change you want to see in the world and around you. Citizens today have seen and know best how to assess and assess what today's behavior in front of parliament has been an example. Serbia will never be a country of violence, but an orderly society that respects laws and rules and in which only elections will decide who will be legitimate representatives of citizens in parliament and in the institutions of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74074	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74075	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we all witnessed a brutal attack on our MP, Marijan Risticevic. I keep saying -- it hasn't happened again, but this happens again, this has to stop, this is a shame. Ninety-nine percent of MPs are normal people, it seems that one percent is not. This is embarrassing, this is happening all the time. Let's just remember our distinguished president, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who ended up all in the floods at the Clinical Centre, let's remember Mr. Martinovic, who was brutally attacked, with nothing caused, by Mr. Aca Markovic as well. Who's next, gentlemen? Can I come to work tomorrow? My co-workers and I? What are we so irritable about, that pack? Bosko-fascist, Ljutician, I don't even know what it is. Get serious, man, come here, talk to us. It's a shame to beat up a man. He came all bloody, ripped up here. How long? You're threatening us. First of all, I can't repeat what we women are in this House, the ugliest names we've ever known, they've called us desperate names, I'm ashamed. I'm a well-mannered woman, I can't even say it again. Then, they harass the children of our president. When did we call anyone's children? Never, nobody. Parents? Never, never, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, I guess we've been chosen here to represent programs, not to insult ourselves, not to fight, and God forbid. Well, in Serbia there must be zero tolerance for violence corruption. What's this? I can't understand. What if he hurt his head? They hurt his ear, they tear him up. What if he's had something terrible? Where's the dignity? Honor? Do these people have any scruples? Where are we? This is the highest home in Serbia, so stop it. You're calling the president's lynch, murder, a hundred times already. Come on, let the state authorities do their job. People like Bosko Obradovic and his like should be behind bars or there is an institution for that. It's embarrassing. Instead of talking about saving lives today, I'm all shaken up here for... Who knows what could have happened, could have killed a man, wouldn't God or any of us. According to distinguished counterpart Djukanovic, they are not one-on-one, but ten-to-one. It's never been, ever in Serbia. Where's the heroism, humanity, where's the dignity? You're a disgrace. We save lives, we fight a plague called Kovid-19, these beats our messengers. First of all, I would like to thank all the doctors, first of all the Government, the President and all the doctors, but not just the doctors, but the nurses, the drivers, the cashiers, the salesmen, all the people of good faith, the volunteers who helped us defeat this monster. Guys, we didn't beat her. It's much better than it was because of the good organisation, the sacrifice of all the people who wanted good to this country. I don't know what these people expect. I mean, the Bosk and these docks that don't come to work, they get paid, and they beat everything up. Let's just think of those journalists, but I'm not gonna shake about it right now, who knows who's next, maybe it's me. We managed to preserve our health system. That's how it works. Thanks to good politics, the government and Mr. Alexander Vukic, we were given masks, gloves and respirators in time. That's why we saved a huge percentage of human lives, protected grandparents, protected the young. I appeal to all men, not a monster ready, wearing masks, wearing gloves. Perhaps it is to you, but it is a youth, so it will not be me, it will not be me. You don't know who he wants. Our wonderful man died, Mr. Blazic. No one should die anymore, 206 elderly people died, but there were young people. We're not done with this disease. Let's just think about it and finish this thing nice and nice, and we'll never get caught again, and the people who want to debate come here to see each other nicely, look into the eyes, exchange political options, this is mine. I'm not for violence, I don't want to hurt anyone. Maybe sometimes I unwittingly say something I shouldn't, but that's not the way to fight here. What's next? Guns to kill me. We have done a lot from 2012 to 2020, I am proud to live in this country, we have shown that we are an extremely intelligent people. Whenever it's a big deal, whenever we have to deal with it, we've done it. We've had wars, we've had bombings, we've survived, we'll survive this monster, but it's not over. I'm glad we helped the doctors. When I saw those people in the Skuffanders, I wasn't feeling well. That's why we organized applause at 2:00, and what happened? He's going pounding in the pots? Who? Alexander Wolfie or the doctors? I figured it was the doctors, 'cause you can't go five minutes after the applause to be banging in the pots. Shame on you, you piece of shit. Let them go to the election on June 21st, we did everything we could to make the election. We've reduced the censorship from five to three percent, so I guess whoever has any normality, understands politics how many votes he needs, let him come out, show how much they're worth. It is the people who choose, we are chosen from the people. Let's see who's worth coming back here, who's not worth it, go where he belongs, do something else. It's about time. We did a lot of good things for Serbia, we showed how to preserve the health system, build a mass of hospitals, build and renovate a mass of schools, kindergartens, make over 330km of highways, renovate roads, renovate railways, now we do fast track, technology parks, do everything and everything. Let's keep it that way, let's, and if someone wants to be in politics, they say -- well, people might not be okay, let's do something better, not fight again, never again. I'm glad we raised our salaries to the doctors. Just one parallel as it was in 2011 of those who say they were very successful. In 2008, they fired 400,000 people. We hired over 250. They had an inflation of 26%. We have below, almost on the European average. Doctor's salary at their time 64,018.67. In our time, without inflation, inflation is 1.01% is 96,269,00 dinars plus increase. That's how it's done, and they need more. What I've seen, they should have what they deserve and they'll have thanks to this government and thanks to President Vukic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74076	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been talking about electoral conditions here for over a year, and they're never better in history, and they're never worse in history, depending on who you're listening to. We've seen a terrible animosity between the current and the former authorities, which is strange, given how many dots they have, not only ideological, but also humanities. Last summer, there was a turning point in these relations when after the meeting was called by George Soros and his organisation in Belgrade, all of a sudden all the differences between SNS, DS and its derivatives simply exceeded and agreed that they and how they had something to talk about. I'll remind you, the first positions were – we're not going to the elections just to give us some conditions, that's what the representatives of the pro-Western opposition said, and we heard from the authorities that they wouldn't give in just to raise five million. Since we have, meanwhile, received a report from the European Commission, which is about the SNS and its coalition partners, something like a sacred letter, then we have seen that the situation in the National Assembly can also be seen, and not only with electoral legislation to change very quickly and to present it as something that progressors have always advocated, although of course it has nothing to do with the truth. I'll remind you that for years in the National Assembly, we had a non-democratic atmosphere, where it is, for example. The session to deal with the budget, as the most important law that the Assembly brings in one year, has often been convened with another 70 or 80 points of the agenda. After criticism from the European Commission, Soros and these other NGOs, we have seen that even a double time for unity is possible to discuss the Budget Law. So, for 180 degrees of change, but the key thing was that there had to be pressure from abroad, pressure from the EU and so on with other laws and at the end of this year. We are talking here today, or we are discussing the possibility that municipal verifyers instead of public notebooks collect signatures for the republican elections, which is one big absurd. It is not true that it came from both the ministers and the representatives of the government that it used to be so. It's never been like that. While public notebooks existed in Serbia, judicial verifyers collected signatures for the republican elections and municipal ones for the local ones. So municipal verifyers never collected signatures for the republican elections. But why is it now being introduced into Serbia? I believe that Mr. Ruzic, although it is his portfolio, knew nothing about it until maybe two days ago, as well as nobody in that government, because it is another result of the rotten compromises that the SNS government is making with some potential electoral actors, and in reality political organisations that do not exist or represent a margin in Serbian politics. We could hear, I can't remember, you'll forgive me, as this person's name is, but the proposal is from the organization "One of the Five Million" that it's pointless to have 10,000 signatures that are necessary for a republican list, that it should be reduced to five, that it doesn't need to collect signatures for local lists etc. It was all in that meeting organised by the President of the Republic on Monday. I'm surprised you didn't let that happen, because you're willing to please these people in order to get them to go to the polls. So, what is the purpose of collecting signatures for the republican elections? Why does each list, or coalition of parties, have to collect 10,000 signatures to go to the polls? So in order to remove from political life those who are insecure, who do not exist in the electoral body, i.e. they are not supported by a significant number of Serbian citizens, so that they do not make fun of the elections and that whoever they want, whoever comes to the minds of a society of five people, they think they can go to elections, because the normal state in a democratic country would be to run for the parties and their political programmes in the parliamentary elections and to make the citizens on that principle and to commit themselves. But parties that don't have political programmes, which only have a scarcity irrationally, they don't have any support. And now you're trying to please them this way, just to get them to go to the polls. Because, in your understanding, in your state of mind, the legitimacy of the parliamentary elections is not given to citizens who vote in these elections, but to OSCE estimates, the European Parliament, the European Commission, etc., because they say – the elections are illegal, free that 100% of the citizens voted on them. On the other hand, if 20% of citizens vote, for example, and the European Parliament supports it, it will be the most democratic elections in Serbia's history. It's about a vision of the Brussels administration, NGOs and these other pan-European organizations that are your authority. Therefore, it is not a question of whether there will be fair elections, or whether there will be no stealing of votes, pressure on voters and opportunities for each party to be equally presented in the media, etc., but only if those who are at the will of the European Union, i.e. the European Parliament and others, come out. It is, unfortunately, the state of Serbia. We have had many bad examples in the past year just as the elections in Serbia look and we have seen that the SNS has improved something that existed during the Democrats, and that is the mass production of these phantom electoral candidates of those parties that do not exist, which represent only electric rabbits and the goal is only to fill the spot on the ballot. So we saw that it is possible in the local elections in Medvedja that in front of the famous Serbian right, which suddenly became a political force in Serbia overnight, the candidate for the president of the municipality is also a member of the SNS municipal board. Not to talk about other elections in Serbia or the Belgrade elections two years ago, where we both had a Greek party and a Belgrade gondola and whatnot. You yourselves do not respect the electoral process, parliamentaryism and make a mockery of it with these procedures. We could also see the importance of this REM, a famous one, who should probably control the presence in the electronic media, and then we also saw when, like, the SNS met those who asked for changes that they had to agree to the pressures there too and elected LDP candidate Judith Popovic in the REM Council, who was once an MP in the Serbian Parliament ahead of the LDP. What is interesting is that all the promoters and all the Socialists in the Serbian Parliament voted for her to be elected to REM, and members of the LDP and the parliamentary groups were not even present at the meeting. This could then be led as a SNS candidate, or it could be concluded that LDP's candidate was also a candidate for SNS. What else can we see in these current elections in 2020? Well, we can see that there are not many parties in Serbia who are able to collect the necessary 10,000 signatures to run for elections. The Serbian Radical Party did it, it did it third, before the list was handed over by both SNS and SPS, and all others, without minority parties, of course, are candidates to whom some others collected signatures because these parties do not exist. We also saw in 2017, during the presidential elections, that Nenad Canak, president of the Social Democrats League, collected most of the signatures in western Serbia, or Baja Basta. So, what is it, then? What conclusion can be drawn? Do the citizens of Bajina Basta most support the autonomy of Vojvodina, or autonomous politics in Serbia? So now, all parties, except for these three, are parties who are unable to collect signatures themselves, which others have collected, or have raised power, and thus went to elections. Otherwise they'd never run. It's our sad picture. Then we saw instead of competing political programs, that we had a race that would be more acute in political performances. Of course, you're not always in the first place about it, very often these predecessors of yours get ahead of you. Then we have these bizarre scenes and topics in the media that are everything but not political. Also, we have seen how much parliamentaryism is appreciated, when all political parties in Serbia are not putting on their electoral lists their prominent members, but boasting who is of the celebrities on that list, as if it were of some value in itself and as if it were important that we have a better basketball player, or a football player, or some musicians, singers, etc., as if it were an indicator that the party is better. If it is true that this government is the best in history and that we live in the golden age, and these are all comments from members of the cabinet of Ana Brnabic, then it would be normal for all those people who made this government by 2020 to be among the first on the election list. Because if it's the best government in history, why change now? Or, if it is the best parliamentary group, or the best MPs that the party has, why, for example, is the president of that parliamentary group, whatever I think of it, but it is behind 20th place? If he's the best and everyone's happy with his work, he should be the first on that list. Instead, we boast here, or you boast about how many more celebrities you have. Then the best basketball player in the fifth place, the best handball player in the 10th place, and then the folk music singer goes, and then the fire eater goes, and the woman with the beard, and so on. For example, on the Socialist Party of Serbia list Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic was, to my astonishment, placed behind the tail of the singer, or the singer of the rap music. This shows that you are self-inflicted in political life and that you should first start to respect the institutions of parliamentaryism and not make out of everything a fun programme, and then we will have a better Assembly and better quality elections. Also, if you were willing to change the electoral censorship in the election year, regardless of political motivation, that was a good solution, but you didn't do it because you were big Democrats but to please those who didn't want to go to the polls. If you're willing to do this now, I don't see what the problem is to solve the most pressing problem of our parliamentaryism, which is stealing a mandate. It is clear to me that it is in the foundation of the ruling party and that they are founded on it, but that does not mean that it is something that should be desirable in Serbia. We had only in this constituency the situation for one MP to change four or five times the parliamentary group, as if he had been elected because he was handsome and smart, not because the citizens in the elections voted for a party's programme, so now he can if he no longer disagrees with those colleagues from that party to go to the other party and take his parliamentary mandate to the dowry. Also, that MP group is enough, whatever they are, and I don't think of them well, you've given seats to the people who stole the mandates of the party on the assembly boards. So they never went to the election, nobody knows what they're up against, they're absolutely unknown, except for one episode when they were following the vocals of the Sasa Radulovic concert that he had in the hall of the National Assembly, and you're promoting them here as a parliamentary group. These are all the problems that were to be solved before any discussion, and the censorship, and the collection of signatures, and the election campaign and anything else. If you really care about the elections and parliamentaryism in Serbia, then you should work on it first, then return to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74078	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74079	Thank you, Chairman. If you listened carefully to, the chairman, the presentation of the previous speaker, there was something that had nothing to do with what is on the agenda today, so we listened to a comprehensive analysis of the election lists, and that party had nothing to do with the previous speaker. In that sense, I have to say this. Someone, for example, on the SNS election list, doesn't really care if it's 10, 20, 50, 80, 100, etc. We don't shake about it. On the other hand, the chairman, someone doesn't care if they are in the 15th place of the election list, it is not certain they will enter parliament. On the other hand, we heard about the dissatisfaction of electoral conditions in Serbia. But the previous speaker is unable to say the key reason why he is unhappy with improving electoral conditions, which is to reduce the censorship if possible to 1% or 2%, because these so far 3% do not guarantee that his political option will be in parliament again after the next elections. In line with that, I have the information, you know, I'm coming from the Witch Chairman and I have the information that his party on the Vracar has collected about 80 signatures so far. The witch has about 64,000 voters, and they have managed to gather for ten, eleven, twelve days how long the electoral action lasted before the introduction of the emergency state of 80 signatures. I can't calculate the percentage or change the total number of voters enrolled. But let's go back to what's on the agenda now. Chairman, distinguished ministers, we in the SNS are providing this strong support for the proposed amendments to the law. We believe that these changes will greatly facilitate the process of collecting the necessary signatures to the parties who plan to go to elections if this has not been done until the emergency is introduced. This way, as many previous speakers have spoken, we meet directly to the opposition. So, we facilitate electoral regulations, election cycles. We affirm democracy. We affirm democratic political struggle and further improve electoral conditions in Serbia. However, today's session was unfortunately marked by numerous incidents. What is obvious is that the aggression of the absolute minority in Serbia is being further strengthened these days and what is particularly worrying is the fascist attack that took place this morning. So, the attack on our fellow MP Marijan Risticevic by Bosko Obradovic, who showed and proved that he was an ordinary bastard, that he was an ordinary hooligan, that the common beating in the hands of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and others was similar. What happened this morning is unrecorded in Serbia so far and the only thing that's good from this whole sad situation is that Serbian citizens could see that Bosko Obradovic serves exclusively fascist methods. He has shown this unequivocally today by his hooligan, street behavior, probably at the orders of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic. By beating up MP Marijan Risticevic, Bosko Obradovic raised standards in both political unculture and primitiveism although we thought it was impossible more than he did the other day, today he raised standards and an open fascist attack, brutally beating up his colleague Marijan Risticevic. I would like to join the appeals heard during the day in the National Assembly and on EU representatives to strongly condemn this savagery, this fascism at work by Bosko Obradovic and his mentors Dragan Gilas and others. Tomorrow is May 9th, the Day of Victory on Fascism, and we can expect, in accordance with this, to hear a reaction and a clear and unequivocal condemnation by EU representatives when it comes to such fascist phenomena. What was the sin of Marijan Risticevic? Just because he came to work, he dared to come to his job, work for which he was paid, work for which Serbian citizens chose him? What was waiting for him? He was met by hooligans, Boskov and Gilas beatings. Now I'm asking if that's what the future is? Is that what they're offering us? Is that a democratic option? Is that a civil option? Is that a European option? Are they offering us, the beatings, Boskov and Gilas beatings, the introduction of fascism to a small door in Serbia? So, the duty and obligation of each of us, every decent citizen in Serbia, is to say - Stop violence, say - stop fascism and such fascist outbursts, to say - Stop Gilasov and Boskov beatings. Despite everything, the Serbian Progressive Party will continue to fight hard for decent Serbia, for successful Serbia, for organised Serbia, for strong economic Serbia, no matter how hard Dragan Gilas and his other listeners are against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74080	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line here.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74081	It's clear to me that... (Nedjo Jovanovic: He called me by name and last name. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74082	Who, Mr. Markovic? That's over, Mr. Jovanovic. (Alexander Seselj: When was that? You called late. Here, you can ask the deputy secretary... (Alexander Seselj: It was before. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74083	Give me back my time, Mr. Marinkovic. It is clear to me that Mr. Markovic is extremely popular, I have nothing against it, and I am glad that he, as a historical political figure, will achieve the same historical result and I have absolutely nothing against it. But I'm saying all of this for principled reasons, because we've been hearing all day about the fascist savagery of Bosko Obradovic, his hordes, phalanges, etc., and the same Serbian Progressive Party, under the pressure of the US ambassador, introduced "Dveri", DSS and Ceda – Boris – Canak coalition into the National Assembly. As you sow, so reap. I did not want to offend Alexander Markovic or Nedjo Jovanovic because of their positions on these election lists, I am absolutely not interested in it, I am just saying that the rule of the Serbian Progressive Party is trying to please, in every way possible, those who bought and did not hide it. You all know it, it's no secret, and you do it all for them and you do it for foreign pressure, not for democracy in Serbia. That's the point. You could have done all this four years ago, when this call began. You weren't interested in our remarks then, you were deaf to it, and now, in the last six months, you've changed more than the last years that have changed in Serbia. That's the point, and that's what I'm talking about. So it's not all about one election cycle. I guess creating a legal standard is something that needs to be much more permanent than any election or any government in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74084	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74085	Thank you, Chairman. Very briefly, without the intention of turning this into some particular debate. Says the previous speaker – we hear all day about fascist phalanges, fascist attacks, etc. Of course we've been hearing about it all day. But now I wonder - why didn't he condemn it? Why didn't he condemn Bosko Obradovic's rampage? Why not condemn the attack, not only Boška Obradovica, but the entire group of some hooligans who gathered outside the home of the National Assembly and attacked a male colleague Marijan Risticevic? Why didn't he condemn something like that? Is that allowed by him? Is that acceptable to him? Is that an acceptable model for you? On the other hand, the chairman, he didn't say anything about how on Vracar, I expected to give an answer to that question, how on Vrakar, during the duration of election activities, in terms of collecting signatures, were they able to collect just about 80 signatures? Since Vrachar has 64,000 registered voters, that's 0.12% for you. So, they've changed it. So, out of the 64,000 voters enrolled, they've collected 80 signatures, for more than 10 days of signings, and now they're telling us about election conditions, election procedures, how to collect signatures. It's no one's fault you can't get your signatures together. There is no law that will allow you to collect signatures to that level so that you can collect the necessary number of signatures, let's just say, on the Wizard if in 10 days you managed to raise 0.12%. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74086	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I'm giving the replica and the opportunity to contact Nedji Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74087	I thank you, Chairman, and I think you should have done it before. First of all, I want to say that the stability and strength of a political party always reflects in the electoral body. This reflection of the SPS has continued since its founding, and the best evidence is that it has never left parliament and I'm sure it won't. (Alexander Seselj: Even better from power. ) Exactly, because it deserves and deserves the trust of the citizens, that is why it is in power. In power, only one to whom citizens trust, in a concrete case, the Socialist Party of Serbia has no reason to doubt that, showing results from the election process in the election process. What embellishes the Socialist Party of Serbia is undoubtedly its sustainability, 30 years old, its sovereignty, what other parties do not have, and we do, which is that we do not interfere with anything that is personal and that is essential only in the internal affairs of other political parties. Our positions on the parliamentary list are our internal matter, but that is why the parliamentary list is always respectable and reflects competence, reflects respect for democratic principles in parliamentary work and reflects commitment and responsibility. No one can doubt that in this assembly of parliament. In the end, all parties are more or less leaderial. Our leader, first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, undoubtedly has an extremely large rating in the political sense of the words that are reflected in our party's rating and we are proud of that. The ministers are behind this with their work, which is undoubtedly committed, responsible, above all, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let other parties think about it, and we'll only be proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74088	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74089	I, Mr Marinkovic, am very interested in Mr Markovic's information on how many parties have collected signatures for the local elections. How does he know that? Did he come to us to sign the election list? It wouldn't be his first time, but I'm really surprised how he knows that information, even if it's true, and I'm telling you it's not. He thinks, since his party is already forging certain lists of non-existent, so-called phantom, duchy fronts, Serbia 21, modern Serbia, those that are for a flat country, those that are against vaccines, they will all be candidates in elections, God of health, after the adoption of such a law. He thinks it's normal for them all to collect signatures in a way that all parties collect signatures in a way that promoters help their satellites. He thinks it's perfectly normal, and I can tell from his discussion. I'll remind you, too, the legal deadlines are very clear regarding the handover of the electoral lists. We can hand over our election list on the last day, and we can also collect the last day. Not all general megalomania, like in the SNS, has to be collected more than five times than it needs to be signed in one day, as if it would fascinate someone, but I was talking about the principled things that should be considered to improve democracy in Serbia, not because of any party and their position, whether local, province, city or any election is at stake. We've been collecting our signatures from public notebooks, and you're now trying to degrade all of this and what the SPS did, and your party, too, by giving it to anyone who thinks of running. And it is not true that there are primarily health reasons, i.e. there is no difference in the procedure for collecting signatures in public notebooks and in municipal verifyers. The same is waiting in line, the same is signed. So something needs to be fixed because it improves the whole election process and it's better for our parliamentaryism, not because it's better for this party or that party now. As for Bosko Obradovic, you know, we've been talking about this for four years. You weren't supposed to stand up to him when the U.S. Embassy pressured you to bring him into the assembly, and now you're dealing with him, who's to blame.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74090	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74091	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia who are monitoring the television broadcast of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not just today, let's not pretend to be stupid or naive, since 2000, no matter where it was, we all witness everything, we live in the same country, in the same city, these people have the same method of coming to power. The same method ruled for 12 years, so we would like the same or worse methods to return to power after the fall from power in 2012. Barely the whole system collapsed, barely Serbia fought corruption, against crime. They're starting to drop mass drug dealers. Tons of narcotics have begun to be seized by their friends, best friends, comrades. Serbia's economy began to rise, jobs started to open, people started to earn, to plan life, to plan children, to buy apartments, to start planning trips, to school, and then started or to start an alliance, they said to the Alliance for Serbia, and I would say before the Alliance for Dealing, the Alliance for Rape, something like that. They're not for Serbia. They are only evil for Serbia. They are a virus that cannot be accepted in this people, because this people have acquired immunity to such scum as Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Djilas, Solak, N1, "Today" and others who call themselves media, and they are not. Those who call themselves elite only because in some way they have come to some degree, so for God's sake they are elite? They are not elite, and in such a way they cannot become elite, by tearing up the flag of the state they live in, by trying to break the door of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the same flag. You can't become an elite like that. Elita you are then when you do something for your people, but something concrete, when you leave the roads behind, when you can say proudly - if you and I go to the polls, because the elections go with the authorities, I will leave behind the roads, museums, jobs, factories, the dramaticly increased standard of all Serbian citizens, and I will leave behind something that will make me proud to be part of a majority that led Serbia in one time period, but it will not be a past period, it will be the future of this country, and that future is guaranteed by the results that this government has achieved, first of all, to Serbian President Alexander Vukic, the policy that guarantees Serbia's development, the policy that has stopped the sale of drugs to our children by school. They don't have our politicians, our friends taking pictures and hanging out with drug dealers, but there's Dragan Djilas, there's Marinika Tepic, the one who's been predicting chickens in military facilities, so I wonder how a man can still... I'm talking to people. Today I got a call from a woman from a pensioner's association, Slavica, and she says, "I don't know this lunatic, what's happening to him?" Oh, I said, Slavice, he's either under the fact of some opiates or thanked him, so he's crossing or the fat money's in his pockets... Marko Atlagic: Money, money. ) Here, as counterpart Atlagic says – money. Of course, they make the best money. It raises the adrenaline money, so it thanks the state's money, because it is the sweetest to get into state money, to the state budget and to take money from Serbian citizens, and anxiety is growing. As June 21st approaches, anxiety grows, because they know that there will be no part of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, there will be no pay of the MP, and that you do not come to work in all that anxiety, panic, madness that has covered them, lack of drugs and everything else, they then break down on the MPs. They don't know who to hit anymore, so they inspire some crazy people to write threatening messages to the President of the Republic on social networks, and then they say, "Poor man." Well, that poor man found bullets in his desk. Well, what kind of a poor man is that? What kind of poor people keep their weapons, threaten the presidents of the republic, ministers, MPs? What kind of poor people do such crazy things? That's what sick people do, and those sick people get inspired. They're nervous that their performance at Andric's wedding didn't work out last night. Less than 300 people have gathered. There were bumps yesterday, so they couldn't hear each other in Belgrade. Sergei didn't come to them, so he probably had a shortcut to the line or a flat vine, so he fell under the table. He couldn't get up, he couldn't go with them. What's a man gonna do, that's what's going on when he's exaggerating. Serbian citizens see it all. Don't let them drive them crazy with stories, lies. Every day people... So, what's the story? What kind of media war? Well, against Alexander Vukic, so many headlines and texts have been published in Serbia for the past 10-20 years, that I haven't seen so many texts and so many... No one has ever threatened a scum like Dragan Gilas in this country. One bad word someone shouldn't have written about him during their reign. There was no media in which you could speak freely about problems in the country. People were getting by. The Serbian Progressive Party, when it was the opposition, was never used by methods used today by Dragan Gilas as part of the opposition. It's never been hit on children. Only an idiot can drag someone's kids around the newspaper, drag them around on Twitter, and it turns out that this picture they published wasn't real, it was photo montage. They have all the lies and photo montage. It's all mirage. All the stories were made up by them, and when it was discovered that it was a lie, then he set out to confront the congregation. When they saw the pots were empty, let's see who we're gonna beat up the next day, so it's a theme, that it's not heard that the pots were empty and it wasn't heard in Belgrade. They have a problem with "March on the Drin". They're bothered by "Gilas, thieves," but they don't mind killing this kid or that kid. They don't mind – kill the children of Alexander Vukic. That doesn't bother them? It's a big expression of the terrible minds, the terrible and intellectual elite gathered around the garbage of Dragan Gilas. Someone will send me a message. It is not a dictionary of the Messenger of the people. No, it's a dictionary of the people. So the people are talking about those who robbed him, about those who have left 400 million debts to pregnant women, maternity families in Belgrade, those who owe the city for a billion and 200 million. That's how the people speak for them. So the people say -- Dragan Gilas is a piece of garbage, a piece of Serbian politics, both as a man and as a politician. He's going there to pretend he's crying. Well, the FDU's not in May, it's in June, so check in with the FDU if you want to compete, and it's hardly going to take him there, it's a bad actor, everyone broke in. Everyone in Serbia knows he can't even act. They don't use artificial tears. What, the mothers of all these children who had left no future for 12 years in their power, didn't parents cry when they stayed on the street, when they shut down their factories, their jobs? People cut their fingers, right? Hanging themselves, committing suicide. What didn't they do? They were running away from here. In this crisis, people knew where it was safe. When it was most difficult, they felt security in their country. Serbia has shown in this crisis that it is safe, that every citizen can provide security, above all, and stability, and we also show this to the economic measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the next period of economic recovery, through the help of citizens. We also show through this gratitude we have, respect for the medical workers. I'd like to know the names of all those heroes who participated in this fight and continued to participate in the next period. Not to know the names of heroes when these people are gone, but to become heroes for life. That is why Aleksandar Vukic, president of Serbia, said -- these people will be rewarded with medals. These only gave medals posthumously. For life in Serbia, none of them got anything but themselves, and millions of Serbian citizens. With that policy, I thought we were done once, and no, they keep announcing some new protests, new madness, new chaos. That's enough of that. We're all looking forward to June 21st. Citizens of Serbia, I call on you on June 21st, don't miss the chance, it's an ideal opportunity to go to elections, to say once and for all - goodbye to those who robbed you, to take your money, to those who offer you only fascism, murder, chaos and madness. Now is the time, we must not miss this opportunity, for Serbia and for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74092	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. He's not there. The People's MP, Professor. Ljubisa Stojmirovic is not present. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74093	Why did the SRS insist on discussing these issues that are now under discussion? For the simple reason we knew that by passing a law that envisioned a minimum of 10,000 judicially certified signatures, it allowed political parties, or coalitions, to participate in the republican elections. This in some way contributes to making a selection on the political scene of Serbia, a selection in a positive sense, because we are carried by thinking about who can collect so many signatures, which in any case makes for a serious political factor in Serbia. Tens of thousands of certified signatures can be collected by political parties or coalitions that have infrastructure, which have local committees, which have municipal committees, district committees and so on. Why? Because behind each signature is the name of a man or citizen of Serbia who has confidence in the political party or the political coalition he has given the signature. And infrastructure for any more serious political option is important, because in a situation where it comes to power and takes responsibility from the government, then from your own infrastructure you have to have personnel who will take over certain functions in power. And we've been in improvisation since 2000. First, in 2000, on October 5th, reminders for the sake of it, came a bogeyman to power, a bulldozer to revolution, with the support of the West, above all America. When people were to be appointed to certain functions, we saw, they named the energy man who was involved in selling fruit and vegetables in America. He dated a relative from Milan Panic, saw a change of government in Serbia, took advantage of the familiarity with Milan Panic and served as energy minister. He took a lot of money, the dust went up, he picked himself up, no one knows where he is, no one knows what he is anymore. Who's responsible? Nobody. Who suggested it? The conjecture is that it was a Democratic Party or one within the DOS coalition that literally came to power. We thought, come on, it's high time to talk about not only a little, conditionally speaking, more stringent criteria when it comes to local levels, but to talk seriously about the status of the mandate that the Constitutional Court has adapted to the political will or the mood of the ruling coalition at which the Democratic Party was headed, and the reason was to try to destroy the SRS in any way, I repeat destroy the SRS and one of the methods is to assign the mandates to individuals, it doesn't matter what the Constitution clearly says that the MP can entrust his mandate to the political party, coalition and the list on which he was elected. The Constitutional Court simply annulled it. Those resignations that were signed, those resignations disappeared in a magical way and, as someone said, forgot where he left it. And what's that? He's coming back like a boomerang. Today, we still have the consequences of such thinking and behaviour, with some MPs elected on certain lists of political parties and coalitions taking over the mandate. They literally trade with the mandate, trade not for reasons to benefit Serbia or the political party, but for the personal benefit of breaking a political option. When it comes to destroying the political scene, such MPs are then engaged who are willing to take their mandate, sell it, and make a literally drink from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the beginning of this call, we Serbian radicals warned you that the great danger was that you introduced a coalition promoted by US Ambassador Scott, which included the DSS, which contained Dveri and various, conditionally speaking, representatives of national minorities. Among them are those who return, look at the spheres and thus conduct an analysis of the electoral body in Serbia. You thought for a moment that you would be able to use it by manipulating them or by asking God what the idea was, not you who sit here, but those who are far from the Assembly, but who handle certain political parties. And what happened? Today it happened in exactly the worst way possible that it came back, that it was seen through the fingers of Bosko Obradovic, who entered parliament thanks to Scott, so he and the others were called Scotts, I mean MPs, it is today unfortunately felt by counterpart Marijan Risticevic. When we Serbian radicals today say who is to blame, above all, the interior minister, you as a rainstorm around Kragujevac, instead of seeking the responsibility of the interior minister yourself, you are going with the story – it is the wrong security. No, it's the Home Secretary's fault. There are protests in other European and world countries in front of parliament, but it is precisely known in which place, at which distance. No one can forbid the entry into parliament. No one can ban anyone who was voted on average by 17,000 Serbian citizens to come to his post. It's a ban for these citizens to perform their duties, not for an individual. Marijan Risticevic, like all of us, is not here because he is Marijan Risticevic, but because he was on the list and the number of votes received by the list is around 17,000 on average for citizens who have given confidence. And instead of the police reacting, to dissipate and gather in the stairwell, you did it a few days ago by letting people who sat on the steps of this assembly sit and boasted that you had a democratic width, that you wouldn't intervene. The law and regulation were in force, but you have some special principles. You have, in fact, a selective application of laws and regulations. Such a way of applying always comes back, but unfortunately, it comes back in a negative sense. We Serbian radicals today insist on it. It's okay, it's been an emergency because of the pandemic, it's not possible to expect that the signatures will be confirmed so quickly when it comes to notaries, but there are judicial verifyers, when it comes to the republican elections, but you've put it down simply to the level of local self-government so that in the republican elections all those who have the favor of power, or the ruling coalition, and we who, by law, have added 10,000 signatures, are now in some subordinate position. We will now have two types of MPs, or participants in the election campaign. We also ran for the question to talk, because of the pandemic, public gatherings are forbidden, to talk about, that promotions are being done, that is to say, on TV, on the media, especially on national television, as public service says, and what is happening these days, instead of going slowly into an election campaign, to bring down these tensions, to create a normal atmosphere, you bring analysts to the first RTS programme. Analysts talk about what politicians should do, how to think and what political parties should do in their opinion. They never went to elections, they had nothing to do with election processes, but behind them are foreign embassies, they're exponents of foreign governments. After all, CESID is still on the list, just to remind you, foreign intelligence services in the Russian Federation and "Resist" and CESID, but CESID is here with all possible powers. They're pre-projecting how much anyone will have votes, as who stands when it comes to ratings. In this way, the most direct influence is on the electoral body. You don't care about that. You are interested in how that as many political parties participate in both local and republican countries as possible, and instead of condemning yourself decisively, to act, to take measures, to prevent vandalism, you start crying, to whine, to call on the EU. The European Union has contributed to all this. EU emissaries influence those who boycott the elections. They indirectly give instructions. You have seen, European Parliamentarians, who have long retired, come here to teach you lessons, you all proud of who will talk to them. What do you care? The issue of choice is the internal issue of every country. No one can interfere with the sovereign state when it comes to elections, and we are waiting here, the last, final result, to announce the American Embassy, where it has it, or the English embassy. Where's that? There's nowhere to go. We've experienced the greatest shame. We, the presidential elections, the EU, were congratulated by the European Parliament at 17.00 p.m. by Tomislav Nikolic's election. You don't build on it. At 5:00 p.m., more people go to polling stations. They want to congratulate you in advance here, too? As one of the colleagues said -- they will declare that they were democratic elections. When only, what's the matter of time. Whether it'll be at 5:00 or maybe an hour early at 4:00. Do you realize that Serbia thus comes in a position to question whether there will be a choice in the next period and if they are what they will be? What is the nature of these choices? What is the goal of these choices? To come some ambassador and say – so much will be from this political option, and these can't at all. Is that a policy run by the ruling coalition? Is that what this policy is all about? I don't believe the majority of the ruling coalition thinks that way, but resist it, let the law be respected once. We are more tolerated when it comes to local elections because the ability to control is much greater, but when it comes to republican, you are making something that will and will negatively affect political life. You're bringing into political life those people who don't have a political party, let alone have infrastructure. They have on paper and nothing else, but you're on a mission to promote and to be counterweighted by the current government. You're promoting Gilas to share Serbia. Don't you realize that you can't do the same division more than once to apply it to the citizens of Serbia? Many political writings are Serbian citizens, as you of the ruling coalition think. Do not neglect the degree of intelligence of an ordinary Serbian citizen, he was already going through such a googogue, but on October 5th they applied such a scam, saying it would be much better, billions await. Here, they've been waiting for over 20 years, never better to come. It is up to us Serbian radicals to bear a part of political responsibility, because we participate in the party's parliamentary life and we cannot stand by, we must tell you. Today, instead of acting immediately as the SRS told you to seek the responsibility of the interior minister, you do not do so for our clear reasons, as it continues to be politically quoted by Nebojsa Stefanovic very well within the political party. What does that have to do with a beaten MP named Marian Risticevic? He doesn't care how the police minister is quoted politically, whether good or bad, within one political option. He didn't do his job, he has to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74094	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must say that the Constitutional Court of the Constitution, which has never returned to a single member of Parliament. So we can talk about it whatever we want, but the last time the Constitutional Court acted, when the mandates were held in 2004, when Boris Karaic and four other MPs were returned to office, and that was according to the 1990 Constitution, and published in the "Official Messenger" 14/2004. So much for that. What is going through today's National Assembly meeting is the incident that took place right before the start of the session, and some fellow MPs, I don't know for what reasons, even dared to say that it is a disgrace to call Boška Obradovic a fascist because they insult the victims of fascism. I think it would be a shame not to introduce a fascist in his true light, that, God forbid, in any way, any such ideology appears again, right in Serbia. Are there any possible features of fascism? There is. Here, who doesn't know, let him ask himself a question – how did the famous leader of Nazi Germany Adolf Hitler come to power? He received a special law to rule the decrees, which required a two-thirds majority in parliament, but not from a total number of MPs, but from those participating in the vote. He didn't have it, but the SA squad took care of it, arrested MPs from opposition parties, and he soaked up the ruling majority, the two-thirds majority. What was Bosko Obradovic doing today? The same thing that Hitler's followers did in the U.S. squads -- it prevented the MPs and ministers from coming to the National Assembly, resorting to violence, beating up a colleague, and the great leader probably Dragan Gilas, because that's how he behaves, he's looking at everything on the side, he's kind of pompous, everything's kind of hot, when he needs to be in certain moments and emotional, that someone's attacking children that nobody ever mentioned to him. Are these the ideologies they can offer Serbia? How can they rule? Over the street and violence? So the fascists came to power in Germany in 1933. Then they founded, I think, October or November of 1993, the first concentration camp. There the opposition members of their regime were arrested and taken away. Is this the kind of Serbia that Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Djilas offer? Concentration camps again to build in Serbia? Well, that's how the Nazis behaved in 1933. Later, when they worked it out, they started with the Jews. Will we, our national minorities, do the same, as they come to power, act the same way? It's a shame that this was today. Especially coming from one of the MPs. I hear various discussions about it and about the date when elections should be held. Here, some consensus has been reached and an agreement has been reached that, within the deadlines foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it will be June 21st. Someone's asking it to be September or October of the month. If we had taken that by chance, you know what would be next? They're afraid of choices. They're extending their dictatorship and their regime. And whatever we do, they will find ways to be against and try to create a political crisis in Serbia. We also had discussions about Serbia living under someone's dictatorship. That's not true, and we've proven it several times. We just want that will that the citizens of Serbia show in the elections to be recognised internationally. I don't know if Russia is a banana state? I don't think it's a serious country of super power, a permanent member of the Security Council, a nuclear force, has the right to veto in the United Nations. Well, I don't know what such a country has accepted when the elections for Duma, for the Federation Council, for the president of the Russian Federation to be observers there, even from Serbia. Even some of our colleagues were from this parliamentary group that said that we were a banana state that accepted the European Union's dictatorship to observe these elections. They were from the EU, they were from the OSCE, from all possible international organisations involved in monitoring the elections. I don't know why it bothers anyone. Further discussions were about why the number of signatures was not reduced? The next discussion was that local self-government units can now verify signatures. Some say they can't run, others say more can run. Well, people, define yourselves. Is it easier or harder? It's either better or worse, it can't do both. We now have colleagues who call political parties a partocrat. Right? Well, good. What is the bearer of a democratic system in one society? Are these groups of citizens? What political programme do groups of citizens have? They don't have any. Often interesting, like this Sasa Radulovic. He came to take some mandate and trade and form power. But here, there's a legal possibility that they're running. Should they be privileged against others? I can't. First it's against the constitution. There is no way that such discrimination can be achieved by law. Or to leave it completely to the verse as it was in the 1990s, so that we have candidates for the president of the Republic of Serbia such as that of Sekerovski, who only ran to take money from RIK. Don't. Let's set things up as it is. To participate in the elections for the Republic of Serbia, there must be some legitimacy, some rehearsal. That rehearsal is the 10,000 signatures. I come from Braničevsky Management District, which has exactly 3% of the total number of voters, so at 190.000 voters you need 300 signatures from eight municipalities, only 300 signatures. If you are unable to collect 320, 330 signatures on 200,000 voters almost, well, who are you going to represent in these elections? Yourself? Well, it's not you who should represent yourself, it's your political program. That's why there are political parties and you, every time, every blow to political parties is a blow to democracy in one country, because political parties have continuity. Here's what's happening now, clones and mutant DS have the continuity that they're a thief, and now they're fascists, but they're doing it in continuity. Don't mix your grandmothers and frogs. Why is the former regime now, exactly what I'm going to call them, not answering the election call? There are two reasons. The first is what they hoped well for, they hoped very well for that help that Serbia as a state would not be able to have good results in the fight against this pandemic and to preserve a large number of our citizens' lives. People, it's sick, that you wish as many people as possible to die so that you can come to power. That's sick. Whose fates, if you come to power like that, who will you care about? We know how it was until 2012, about ourselves. Here's a simple question - what were they banging at 8:00 and five minutes? In the pots of some and the office, we know that, blowing whistles, screaming, whom? What were they doing? Could they have regretted that no more citizens of the Republic of Serbia had passed away that day? Or they were looking forward to dying and as much as they died, just to have someone die so they could come to power. As it turns out that the state is able to cope with the pandemic, so the pressure, let's go to the government okay, there are politicians in the government, there are politicians, and there are politicians, but the pressure has also gone to the crisis headquarters where people who have nothing to do with politics, nothing at all. They were pressured to do something under that pressure to make bad decisions in implementing the fight against Coronavirus. Among other things, it's banging into the pots. He's got the tape and Gilas is banging, who's he banging at? He rejoices that eight or nine passed away on that day, or does he grieve that he did not die fifty or one hundred? What are we talking about? Someone here now mentions a change in the electoral system. The electoral system doesn't change, it just changes the way the signatures are collected. What are notaries? Private persons entrusted by the state with some kind of public authority, an overture of signatures. Private faces. What are local self-government management workers? State officials, once again entrusted by the state under some law with public authority and now someone who doesn't understand a bit or pretends not to be told – is that it would be more lists submitted. It's not. It's to risk less the health of our citizens, that the lower concentration is right in one place when you collect signatures, but you'll always find some way to resent something, even if it doesn't have any arguments. So it is primarily for us to be a clear goal that the results of our citizens in our elections are presented and accepted in the first place by themselves, and second from the rest of the world or the international community. We don't want to go back to the '90s, but I also don't want to go back to 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, because we mentioned how they ruled the previous session, how they seduced our state of emergency and how they killed our citizens. Whatever criminals they are, they have the right to trial. They were liquidated without the right to trial. And now they're talking about democracy. What they did while in power, what they were doing in front of the Assembly this morning, is nothing more than vampirious fascism in the leader of the S squad of Bosca Obradovic and the great leader of Dragan Gilas. No matter what, it won't be enough for them to beat Alexander Vukic and the SNS in the upcoming election.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74096	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74097	Honored chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. The changes to the electoral law that we are introducing, that is to say, we are discussing and talking about here almost all day long, at first glance they seem small, but believe that any change that contributes to better conditions and that contributes to the fact that voters have a better chance of running and a greater opportunity to choose certainly contributes to democracy. One of the reasons is certainly the discussion of those who are willing to go to the future democratically, those who are willing to go to elections, the talks with the president of Serbia, and all that we are considering today, was agreed just in one such meeting. The freedom of the media that's constantly being talked about is not the freedom to lie and to tell the truth, it's exactly the opposite. In 2012 the SNS had no television media, it had no "N1" or "New", it had neither NIN nor "Today", but what it had in 2012 had no SNS today, but it had tomorrow, it had a future and this future is something we have lived since 2012 until today. We have shown that we can, we have justified citizens' trust and what must certainly be a message to everyone, it is that in the government can only be one who has the support of citizens and regardless of these, this is essentially a change in electoral conditions, not in terms of the very conditions for going out to the elections, but for the gathering of votes just caused by the emergency situation, and that no one would be harmed by the emergency situation, change to get faster and easier to gather votes of support for those who want to take the democratic path to power. Life comes first again, and all this time of emergency, life comes first. I'll remind you, every life doesn't have a price. And just in this difficult state of emergency, in this difficult emergency, every life has been preserved as much as possible and unfortunately 209 lives have been lost, but it is 209 major losses because for the families of those who have had a loss it is the greatest possible loss. Indeed, he will sympathise with all of them. On the other hand, serious behaviour and state, but on the other hand, and citizens have contributed precisely to this, conditionally speaking, small number. As in any other difficult situation, in the war, in the state of emergency and in this state of emergency, we also had heroes, we had heroes, but unfortunately we had traitors and enemies and each of our own corners from our own home, from his family he had the opportunity to see who he was and what he did in this state of emergency. It is a real opportunity to thank the white coats for the first time, as they are popularly called in this state, all doctors, all those who have been with these doctors, and these are medical staff, nurses, and drivers and cleaners and those who have cooked food. Among other things, we thank all those who volunteered, who helped as much as they could in this situation. We also have a special commendation, but all of these stories about education, on the other hand for health care, for all of those results that have been achieved in these difficult conditions, that the Ministry of Education could very quickly organise in the best possible way the continuation of education is due to one system action that just in 2012 until today was on stage. It's impossible for me to get around what happened this morning in this whole story, and something that really isn't commendable doesn't honor anyone, not even those who did it. The victim was unfortunately our colleague, and could have been any other MP, because these people who blocked the entrance to the National Assembly this morning blocked the entry into democracy, blocked the entry into Serbia's future. For every conviction is certainly what the next elections will show, that is that just as Bosko Obradovic and all those who are violently trying to do something in Serbia will not get support. What I would ask the minister to say to everyone in the government, and of course the prime minister, is that no electoral law will help those working against Serbia and those working against the interests of citizens, Serbian haters cannot win elections, they cannot get votes, for money, for blackmail, for threats under any conditions. What happens when someone from Gilas's opposition, because that's what all those under his patronate and those he's funding can call themselves, and we saw when he was banging into the pots, and in the background was the Führer's book, did he just advise Boška Obradovic on how to block and attack honest MPs who just want to do their job? What's the problem with this opposition, the Gilas opposition, is honoring people who struggle with a fair and democratic path to enter this assembly and represent the citizens, but the problem of the Gilas opposition is when they wake up in the morning they have three questions. First they have to ask which foreigners they are in that morning, the second question is whether or not they go out to the elections that day and the third question is how they will show hatred for Vukic. Hate for Vukic is hatred for all those who support him, and that is Serbia's majority. I expect that as SNS and all those who think well of this Serbia and think that democratically they are making changes and that we are moving on in a democratic way, just on Sunday they come to this Assembly and vote for these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74098	Thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74099	The respected chairman, ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, for the SNS life and health of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is priority number one and we have no dilemma there. These laws that are on the agenda today are the laws that contribute to the preservation of public health and human life and health, because we know that we have been faced with the pandemic of world proportions, the state of emergency has been lifted, but some of the emergency measures have been mitigated and others, the Kovid-19 virus, this deadly virus has not disappeared. In order to preserve the public health of citizens and, of course, to ensure that all political parties that intend to go to elections, to collect the signatures of citizens who support them, the law enables the public notaries to do so and the authorities of the city, or the municipal administration to which the state has entrusted these tasks. In this way, public health is directly protected, crowds are prevented from public enforcement offices, and political parties are going to meet, of course. Apart from preserving the lives and health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is a democratic country for the Serbian Progressive Party, Serbia is a country where democratic principles apply, and during this state of emergency, during the world pandemic, Serbia has shown that and how it knows that it takes care of what is most important, and that is the life and health of every citizen. Also, I would like to say that this morning, in front of the National Assembly, the temple of democracy, the temple of the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia, there was a fascist attack on our colleague Marijan Risticevic, a fascist attack by Ljoticnik Boško Obradovic, and in this way Marijan Risticevic was directly threatened by at least three human rights, and that right to life, because he suffered physical injuries, the right to work and the right to free movement. But what do you expect from Bosko Obradovic, who is the heritage of Ljotic's politics, the Ljotic who helped shoot thousands of students in Kragujevac on 21 October 1941? What to say for Bosko Obradovic, who was the sole concentration camp of death for children during World War II in the heritage of the Hitler and politics of the Ustasha pavelic state? There's nothing to say about him. His policy is a policy of violence. But violence is not politics. He probably doesn't know if he didn't come to the assembly, except for his salary, that violence is a crime and a crime. He also doesn't know that hate, that calling for murder, threatening the president of the state, that threat to children, is no policy whatsoever. It's a pathological state of the mind, sick, it's something that belongs to political madness, and certainly to politics and certainly to democratic Serbia. What I also want to say is that Bosko Obradovic, who is the heritage of Ljotic politics and robbers and tycoon Đilas, Jeremic and others, have never fought for the interests of the people. They were always fighting for their own pockets, because Gilas did not go over robbing children distracted by development, so he put himself in his private pockets and made himself rich at the expense of Serbian citizens for 619m euros. Any, it didn't come back. I call on the citizens to vote on June 21st, to vote on their conscience and will. For the Serbian Progressive Party, the voice of the people is the law, but I call on them to vote for an advanced, successful, peaceful and stable Serbia, for the sake of the future and for the sake of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74100	Thank you. The word is Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74101	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my speech, I would once again point out the indisputable and precise fact that President Vukic and the Government have shown full seriousness and responsibility during the pandemic. A number of drastic measures have been taken, aimed at preventing the mass spread of coronary viruses and protecting the health and life of citizens. It's really one big success of our government. Unfortunately, we had during the state of emergency of a particular political party, various groups, media, individuals, who acted irresponsiblely. They interpreted these necessary and necessary measures as overruling jurisdiction, or even choking democracy. Both claims are absolutely incorrect. If we see what the pandemic situation was like on a global scale, we will see that a number of European countries and a number of other countries, on other continents, have brought almost identical or similar measures. So it was absolutely no one's idea to go beyond jurisdiction, to choke democracy, but to do everything in Serbia not to repeat the scenario of Italy, Spain, France, or to avoid mass and uncontrolled spread of the coronary virus. In this fight against this global evil, the government has not only protected citizens' health and public interest to the greatest extent, but has also taken a number of concrete economic measures aimed primarily at protecting citizens, i.e. improving their material position, on the one hand, helping small businesses and postponing taxes. One of these good measures was the payment of one-time cash aid of 4,000 dinars for about 1.7 million pensioners in Serbia. Of course, the aim of this measure was to make pensioners feel safe, as much as possible, and to get through this difficult period of combating coronary viruses. However, I want to say that an important group of Serbian citizens has been left out. In Serbia, in addition to 1.7 million pensioners on the list of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, there are around 240,000 pensioners who made their pensions outside Serbia and who are not users of the PIO Serbia Fund. Of these 240,000 pensioners who have completed their job in European countries or anywhere around the world find almost 50% or around 118,500 pensioners from the former Yugoslavia, of which 56,000 pensioners from Croatia, 39,000 pensioners from Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska, 11,500 pensioners from Slovenia, 5,800 pensioners from Montenegro and the same 5,800 pensioners from Macedonia. Here I have the data, this is the 2018 Social Security Office data of Serbia, and if we look at the average pensions of pensioners who, I repeat, have made their pensions in now-states created in the former Yugoslavia, the data are the following. The average pension of 56,000 pensioners from Croatia is 153 euros, from Bosnia and Herzegovina 101 euros, from Slovenia the highest average is 170 euros, Macedonia has 105 euros in average pension and Montenegro is an average of 98 euros. So we see from this data that the good part, that is, the majority of pensioners from Croatia, BiH and other countries in the region, has very little pensions and that they barely make ends meet. As a result, I sent two letters to the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic, with an appeal and a request that all pensioners, therefore, who are not users of the PIO Serbia Fund, who made their pensions in the countries created in the former Yugoslavia, have pensions of less than 30,000 dinars to pay them this one-time cash aid of 4,000 dinars. I must say, a lot of pensioners from Croatia and BiH invited me in the previous period and expressed their indignation, feel abandoned, hurt, disappointed. They say -- we meet all our obligations, we live in this country, and we expect 4,000 dinars to be paid in this difficult time, and we pensioners from those countries of the former Yugoslavia. I hope and expect that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will find a way and a mechanism to subsequently, therefore, pay the majority of pensioners from Croatia, BiH and other countries of the region for these 4,000 dinars, to correct the injustices against them. We have, say, pensioners from Croatia who have agricultural pensions of 30 euros. So now you have some grandmother at the Major's at Sapac or any other grandfather and grandmother who have pensions of 30, 40, 50 euros or 100 euros and they didn't get one-time cash. Their neighbor or neighbor who has a pension of 50,000 dinars, 60,000 dinars, received that one-time cash aid of 4,000 dinars. You can imagine the indignation and disappointment of these citizens of ours who have been exiled here in the good part, and of course, we have a significant number of those who came earlier, before these wartime events of the 1990s. So, the appeal, once again, to the government to find a way to pay off these 4,000 dinars for all pensioners whose pensions are less than 30,000 dinars, and therefore those pensions, i.e. the work experience in Croatia, BiH and other countries of the region. Of course, this also applies to pensioners with pensions of less than 30,000 dinars, who made pensions in European countries, Germany, France, Switzerland, Austria, although it is a small number. We all know that the pensions of these citizens, these pensioners who have worked in these developed European countries are far and significantly greater than 30,000 dinars. Another important thing I would also like to say is that the government has made a recommendation to local self-government that all pensioners on the list of the PIO Serbia Fund have pensions of less than 30,000 dinars to be awarded food and sanitary supplies, i.e. hygiene supplies. Also in this case, local self-government across Serbia took pensioners' lists from the PIO-Serbian Fund and, again, in this case, pensioners from Croatia, BiH and other countries of the region were discriminated and were denied the package. Also, in this case, I was called by a large number of citizens from those parts who were disappointed and told us – we do not care as much about the package itself, as we feel injured, that we are left out and that we are not equal with other pensioners in Serbia. I also ask the Government to give a recommendation to local self-governments that wherever it is possible to correct this injustice and that local self-governments provide food packages and hygiene supplies and pensioners who are not users of the PIO Serbian background, they have achieved their pensions in Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, Slovenia and other countries. The third thing I would especially like to point out is this good announcement that after May 15th, the government will pay for a 100-euro cash aid in dinar equivalent. Here, therefore, the right to receive these 12,000 dinars will be granted to all citizens who have citizenship, who have a residence in Serbia. So, the 100 euros will automatically be given to pensioners who are users of the PIO Serbia Fund, social assistance users, so in this case, pensioners from Croatia, BiH and other countries of the region and, of course, all other pensioners will be able to make pensions. However, we now have 26,000 more citizens who have refugee status from that of 18,000 from Croatia and 8000 from the Federation of BiH. Why do we have another 26,000 refugees and exiled Serbs from Croatia and BiH who have not yet taken up residence? Many of them have Serbian citizenship but have not taken a residence, or personal map of Serbia, because they exercise their rights in Croatia and the Federation of BiH, property, acquired and each other. I now also appeal to the government and here present Minister Ruzic as the previous two cases for the government to supplement its decision here and to say that the right to those 100 euros has citizens who have a residence, not just a residence in the ID card. It means they have a residence, or they have a refugee card, which is issued by the same procedure in the MUP as the identity card is issued. So with these three corrections, or additions, a large number of Serbian citizens, who love this country, who exercise all rights in this country, meet all their obligations and who will only spend those funds in Serbia. So, I hope that this appeal will be adopted and that injustice will be met, I repeat, according to all pensioners who have made pensions in Croatia, BiH, other countries of the region, means in all three of these cases, and especially related to the payment of 100 euros that refugee persons who have a residence or refugee card will be included. Finally, I would also like to condemn for my part the events that took place outside the Serbian presidency last night, which were caused by opposition representatives, therefore, by incidents and violence. Also, I especially want to condemn today's incidents and violence committed outside the House of the National Assembly. I think it's a completely wrong way for the opposition to act politically. The opposition should show seriousness and responsibility and accept that the government is changing in the elections, i.e. to go to the polls and see what kind of ratings it has on citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74102	Thank you, Mr. Linta. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Marijan Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank all those who have given me support. I'll keep coming to my job. I hope that the citizens in the upcoming elections will decide that the kind of people who attacked me is no longer a place in the National Assembly. When someone gets beaten, the rich usually look to protect the body, the poor look to protect the coat, and I haven't been able to protect either body or coat, but I've protected something third, which is far more valuable. I am a protective honor and a face, not only of my own, but of all the MPs who are committed to doing their work. Janko Veseinovic answered and said he would buy me a jacket. He doesn't think my jacket was on a hanger, so they tore it up. So, regardless of the injuries, I will continue to come to my work, but I warn you that some strange characters have gathered again in front of the National Assembly. I'll go out the front exit again. I'm not going out like a reptile. My mother didn't give birth to me and teach me to walk so I could crawl in front of all sorts of reptiles. When Janko Veselinovic was attacked Borko Stefanovic, I asked that immediate perpetrators be arrested, which was done. Janko Vesenovic wants to buy me a jacket. It didn't occur to me to buy Borko a shirt, and I asked the judge to make an arrest, but now I'm going to propose to Janko Veseinovic, the famous professor, I think at Law School, so I regret his students, to buy him a shirt, and it's crazy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-08-0.u74104	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. I am informing all MPs that we will continue our work on Sunday, May 10, 2020, at 10:00 p.m. I wish everyone a nice weekend. Thank you.
