ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70583	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a session of the twenty-first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert once more your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 134 MPs are present in the hall. The absence was reported from today's session of MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, Zarko Obradovic and Vladimir Marinkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need to consider the proposed act as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the session of the twenty-first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, the following D's is set out: Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 48(6). The law on enforcement and security (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia’) No. 106/15, 106/16 – authentic interpretation, 113/17 – authentic interpretation and 54/19), which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. We're going to work on a set agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to apply immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 195. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening an investigation into the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 48(6). The law on enforcement and security (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia’) No. 106/15, 106/16 – authentic interpretation, 113/17 – authentic interpretation and 54/19). Does the proposing representative, MP Gjorge Komlenski, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, want to explain his proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70584	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, at its session of 31 January 2020, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives decided to propose to the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 194(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to consider the proposal to adopt authentic interpretation, and Article 48(6) thereof. The law on enforcement and security. In addition, in order to prevent the occurrence of adverse consequences unless adopted by an emergency procedure, he suggested that this authentic interpretation be discussed by emergency procedure, as all the conditions laid down in Article 167 have been met. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, on January 15, 2020, an authorised proponent, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, submitted a proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and established procedures. The proposal was forwarded to the Republic government for opinion. The positive opinions of the Republic government came to parliament and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law on 30 January 2020. Namely, I will explain briefly to you what this is about, and I repeat that this is about the provision of Article 48(6). The law on enforcement and security. For the sake of precision, I will quote that part of the legal provision that says – when the executive trustee in the executive procedure is represented by a lawyer, the collection of the court costs and the costs of execution will be carried out at the expense of the lawyer and without the contract of transfer of the claim, on the basis of the law, the certified power of attorney authorised by the Executive Trustee to charge the costs of the proceedings and to receive it on his own account. The Committee accepted the proposal's initiative as a whole and the Republic Government is in agreement, which is that this provision should be understood in such a way that the lawyer does not need a certified power of attorney to receive the costs and costs of execution in his own account, unless the law governing the judicial procedure in which the executive order was established requires over the power of attorney. For the sake of greater precision and opportunity for citizens to understand what it is, if the court procedure from which the verdict, solution or in any other way obligations and the right to charge the costs of the proceedings, and that the procedure, which regulates this very kind of procedure, did not require a lawyer, the power of attorney shall be particularly certified, means certified by notaries in such situations, then it is not necessary for the payment of such costs of the procedure to have the power of attorney specifically certified. Exactly what I'm talking about is in line with the earlier decision of the Constitutional Court of September 2017, so it was estimated that there really was a need to come out, to say, in the face of already identified problems in the possible interpretation of this part of the Law on Implementation and Security and to ensure through this authentic interpretation absolutely uniform application of the law when all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are concerned. For now, that's it. If there are any specific questions, we will provide answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70585	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Komlenski, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70586	I thank the chairman. Given that today's agenda is the authentic interpretation of the provision of the law, which has caused great controversy in professional circles, especially in the circles of law and from that aspect and from that point of view, as well as from the point of view of what is our obligation to present to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am obliged to present some interpretations which, in any case, would be useful, if for anyone else, then for us Members of Parliament. First of all, it should come from the fact that any authentic interpretation not only of these provisions of the law on enforcement and security, but of any other law just confirms that the law is not regulated properly. It just confirms the fact that the norm to which authentic interpretation refers is not complete, it is not clear, it is not practical enough and therefore resorts to authentic interpretation and as a man who deals with law enforcement and, of course, I think that we should avoid the practice that implies making authentic interpretations, because in this way we only confirm that we have not done the previous work that we should have done properly and in this direction I take personal responsibility for one such approach, because we have obviously failed to respond to certain provisions of the laws that have come to the attention that they need to be responded to. In this context, I think it is very important that in the future every law, not only the Law on Enforcement and Security, but every law must earn a far greater degree of attention in order not to result in a failure that implies that, in practical application, we are causing consequences that are harmful to Serbian citizens, because legal uncertainty is being introduced, and this legal uncertainty creates unequal judicial practice. Why am I saying this? Because as soon as a provision of the law is not sufficiently precise and clear, then those who apply that provision of the law, which are mainly the courts, give different interpretations, different views or make different court decisions which should not in any case be figurative when it comes to legal traffic, of course. What is very important to point out is the fact that this authentic interpretation has really improved the indeterminateness, incompleteness, uncertainty and something that should not have happened in the law, because this authentic interpretation of Article 48(6) provision, which otherwise is the subject of this debate, is the fact that a lawyer is placed in that position that he deserves, which means that the relationship between a lawyer and a client must be the exclusive relationship between a lawyer and a client. In this relationship as a relationship of trust, no one can interfere. No one has the right to devalue anything agreed between a lawyer and a client or a lawyer or a party with systemic or normative influence. Why? Because the relationship between a lawyer and a client, i.e. the relationship between a lawyer and a party, is based primarily on the principle of trust, and this principle of trust is something that is otherwise foreseen by the code of professional ethics of a lawyer on the one hand, and on the other hand, the responsibility of a lawyer to a client. I must, dear fellow Members of Parliament, remind you that no single procedural law in the Republic of Serbia, nor the Law on litigation, nor the Code on Criminal Procedure, nor the Law on Non-parony Procedure, the Law on Administrative Procedure, all these are procedural laws, none of the only laws provides that a lawyer must be given the approved power of attorney from the party. Not a single law. I was talking about procedural laws. There is one law, which unfortunately introduced a procedural norm, that is the Family Law, which states in Article 221 that a lawyer in a marriage dispute, I apologize, not a lawyer, but that in a matrimonial dispute, only if he has the power of attorney. Since the power of attorneys are placed in the order of attorneys, the Family Law has introduced one discriminatory provision or discriminatory norm for both lawyers and parties. Why for the parties? For the simple reason that the party has absolutely no reason nor is it obliged to bear any burden. First and foremost, the party is not obliged to bear the burden of costs. The verification of the power of attorney implies the departure of the party to the public notary, the payment of the fee to the public notary for the overa, which, however it may seem, is not small, at the same time exposed to certain inconveniences that the procedure itself entails. Why would the party suffer those costs and why would the party be obliged to certify the power of attorney? Does the party trust a lawyer? There is. Does the party want that lawyer? He does. Does the party have a relationship with that lawyer that implies both the responsibility of the lawyer to the party? Sure, yeah, yeah. For the sake of fact, I will appeal to laws that regulate the obligation of a lawyer to respect all that is in its professional functioning obligations to the party. Let's go from next – first, the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers provides for a number of principles that are binding when it comes to lawyers. Why? Because lawyers under the Code of Professional Ethics have a proper degree of responsibility. First is the principle of confidentiality. What does that mean? This means that trust in the confidentiality of information that the client has passed on to the lawyer is essential to provide legal assistance and these data have a category of confidential data. The next is either a lawyer's secret or a professional secret, which means that a lawyer has an obligation to keep as a secret everything he's got from the party based on everything that's attached to the case in which he represents the party. This secrecy obliges a lawyer to simply protect the party's interest by preventing any kind of abuse, i.e. leak of information that exceeds what the relationship of trust between a lawyer and a party implies. In this direction, there is, of course, responsibility both civil and criminal, and at the same time, it is important to highlight the fact that lawyers, for the sake of security they must provide with the parties, are obliged to conclude the insurance contract. This insurance contract has only one purpose and one purpose. This is to protect the party by making up for the damage caused by a lawyer's unprofessional work. All lawyers conclude this type of insurance contract by creating one fund, one currency mass from which they are paid up to a certain limit, prescribed by law, compensation for the damages suffered by the parties. When considering all these obligations of lawyers to the party it is logical to ask the question – why the certified power of attorney? My esteemed colleague Martinovic also recognized this problem when he supported the authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 48(6). The law of execution and security. One kind of gratitude in the professional sense of the word must exist because we are fixing something that must in any case exist in legal regulation, and that is to remove all ambiguities, to remove literally everything that in practical application leads to problems, and believe me, the problem is not little. These problems are multiplying on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have a duty to protect the law. My personal obligation is when I'm here to do it, and I do it honestly. What is important, it is important to point out that lately these phenomena of unequal court practice have been growing more and more. The question arises – why would a lawyer need to be granted power of attorney even in matrimonial matters? Why did the Family Law norm one obligation that not all other procedural laws norm? Which is why a lawyer's attorney would have to have a certified power of attorney who is involved in a divorce case, still a marriage partner, and after the verdict in that divorce case, most likely not a marriage partner anymore, but the question arises – why the certified power of attorney? Is this relationship between the party in the divorce case to the lawyer different from the civil suit compared to the criminal case, compared to the administrative procedure? Well, it's not, it's completely identical. The lawyer is both the party's power of attorney in the divorce and criminal proceedings, both in litigation and in the outsider and each other. Then what's the difference? Why would lawyers be so discriminated against? There's absolutely no reason for that. Therefore, it should be considered that, if I recall 221 as well. Family law, no matter what it is not in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, has an intervention. I don't want it to be an authentic interpretation again, I don't want us to react this way again because we owe it and it's our obligation as MPs to take care of the quality of the law. The quality of the law will be so much better if we make it so without authentic interpretation. Every authentic interpretation somehow takes us in some other direction, which in any case does not mean that we are too responsible and too serious when it comes to norming, at the time of the proposal and even draft laws. I therefore also appeal to fellow lawyers who are in working groups, when it comes to drawing up drafts, and later on, the bill that directly touches the law, to make sure that any norm that is intended to be an integral part of the law is fully clear, precise and practical. Otherwise we'll have serious problems. What I'm trying to say is a fact that, unfortunately, we have to accept as such. From the moment the public record was introduced, the lawyer was becoming increasingly marginalized. I must remind you that the attorney is and must be an independent profession. It is functionally part of the judiciary, because it is in the role of the judicial system, but institutional law is undoubtedly independent and cannot be dependent on either the state or anyone else. The state has no right to interfere, except of course the so-called. the system arrangement relating to the structure of the lawyership, to the organisation of the lawyerry and to everything that the lawyer requires in the context of its independence, and that is the only way the state can react. When it comes to the work of a lawyer, when it comes to law enforcement, the state does not have the right to interfere and in any way puts a lawyer in a position that implies a possible state of law. When I mentioned public library activity, of course I have absolutely nothing against public notebooks, because by transferring public authority to public notebooks, there have been some, to say positive shifts, or situations that can be accepted as positive, and the first discharge of courts is a large number of cases, because mostly complete outsider matter and courts have been moved to public notebooks. What, though, is what has led to a considerable problem for the lawyer? The lawyer came into a situation a few years ago to defend himself against usurping certain powers and actions. A few years ago, the lawyer was forced to oppose the kind of defence that public notebooks usurped part of the lawyer's work and the lawyer persisted in the struggle. Most importantly, the resolution ministry also accepted the demands and criticisms of the lawyer, which were more than set up. Therefore, the lawyer must in no case experience a status that could have grown into something several years ago, which implies a more severe consequence, and this serious consequence is also a constitutional violation of the status of the lawyer. Of course, this whole discussion of mine isn't directed against public notebooks. The lawyer has no intention, nor will he open a front with public notebooks, she did not do it then, she will not do it now, but she will also know how to respond to all the challenges and temptations that arise because of the failures in the normative framework, therefore, because of the failures in the draft laws and the adoption of the laws that we decide on. That is why I think and appreciate the efforts of both distinguished colleagues Martinovic and colleagues Gjorge Komlenski who have contributed to standardizing in a ram way what we should have used earlier, namely to improve a standard by authentic interpretation by quality, giving an interpretation that is undoubtedly acceptable and legal. Once again, the appeal that future authentic interpretations can be reduced to the least possible extent, so to the extent that only the obligation of authentic interpretation of such a degree is so that only in this way can we improve the quality of the law, or bring the law to the practical level, the degree of applicability that does not cause negative reactions in courts, which is an unequal case law, given that we have brought justice to justice, not just us, but only the judiciary itself, to the situation that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect legal certainty, expect access to justice. To do that, this is exactly my appeal going that way. I hope we all contribute in that direction. I thank and hope that this discussion of mine will be able to bring all the laws in line in some future period by eliminating authentic interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70587	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70588	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 48(6). The law on enforcement and security. This provision shall read – when the Executive Trustee is represented in the executive procedure by a lawyer, the payment of the judgments and the costs of execution shall be carried out at the expense of the lawyer and without the transfer of the claim, on the basis of the law of the certified authority which has been authorised by the Executive Trustee to charge the costs of the proceedings and to receive it on his own account. Obviously, the formulation - under the law of certified power, created different interpretations that lead to unequal court practice, and there is a need to adopt authentic interpretations that will solve some dilemmas. If we take into account the members of the Prosecution Act relating to the power of attorneys, we will see clearly that if the party has issued the power of attorney to conduct the case, the attorney shall be empowered to submit, among other things, a proposal for execution, to receive and collect the costs charged and to pay the penalty and not to be subject to an obligation to verify the powers conferred on the lawyer. These provisions of the Law on litigation are also applicable accordingly to the enforcement procedure. The conclusion is that if the party has given the lawyer the power of attorney to carry out the case and has not decided any closer to the authority in the power of attorney, the lawyer may, on the basis of such power of attorney, receive the costs and costs of the execution, i.e. the costs of the litigation and the costs of the executive procedure and such power of attorney shall not be certified. I suggest we bring this authentic interpretation in order to remove dilemmas and misunderstandings in the application of the law. What is important for citizens to say that they would be more clear to them, I completely understand that many of the things we're talking about are actually examples that should be cited in order to adopt this authentic interpretation. Lawyers were in practice, it happened that lawyers agreed with the perpetrators, say, that the main debt and interest went to the party's expense, and that the costs of lawyers from the litigation or executive proceedings went to the expense of lawyers, but they were rarely done by lawyers. The submission is certainly charged and the submission would eventually be paid by the executive debtor. Thus, by adopting such authentic interpretation, we will practically cut costs that could possibly have happened in some cases. So, the parties are protected, specifically the executive debtors. Also, executive debtors reduce the costs of the power of attorney. The power of attorney could once be verified in court, however, now that the party has gone to a public notary, or notary, and has asked for the power of attorney, it is obliged to pay a certain fee. That fee logically paid by the party is not paid by lawyers. So it's also good to adopt this authentic interpretation, because we're going to save money for one of the parties in the process again. However, on the other hand, what I was still going to say is that the party is going to have the general power of attorney for representation in the case and in that general power has not specifically cited the powers which the lawyer has been authorised to act in these matters. But later that happened, I talked to the lawyers, so they gave me their opinions, there are parties that eventually didn't want to simply give lawyers their money for which they worked, or to charge the costs of the litigation and execution process, and then the lawyers were in trouble. Therefore, this authentic interpretation will know exactly what's going on at the party's expense, what's going on at the expense of lawyers and will protect lawyers. In addition, it will lead to a more efficient enforcement and security system, bring security to the adoption of such authentic interpretation, bring security throughout the process, because each of the parties and the lawyers will know what the money was for. Also, responsibility will be strengthened and parties to lawyers and lawyers to their parties representing. And today's session will naturally pass in parliament in the spirit of parliamentary dialogue here at the tide, but again without the presence of that part of the opposition that is not interested in the work of the National Assembly, or that the decisions that we will make here will reflect on the citizens of Serbia. I want to read you something. When you hear the statements of the type - Vukic most responsible for the "Jovanjica" affair, or Andrej Vukic is not the only one from the top of the regime involved in the affair, or by not reacting to the affair, the prosecution has become a public service to the authorities, and these are all dominant headlines in the media in recent days, or in recent weeks, you expect that there should be serious arguments and evidence. But, no, it's another wave of fiction and lies aimed at attacking Alexander Vukic and discrediting him both as president of the Republic and as president of the strongest political party. Namely, the above charges were made by Miroslav Aleksic, whom we remember selling his party to Vuk Jeremic, and apparently sold himself to Dragan Djilas, only we haven't determined the figure yet, everything else is more than obvious. What actually happened? On the farm at Old Paz's found marijuana plantation. Nine people were arrested, including a man suspected to be the leader of the marijuana production group. Immediately, the news was used by leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, who have been making up affairs or the involvement of Alexander Vukic in affairs and harassing his family for months now, thus putting a terrible pressure on him and leading the most filthy campaign. In addition to the announcement by the MUP, even though it was found that neither the President of the Republic, nor his neck were in contact with the arrested Coluvija, Miroslav Aleksic lied unmistakably from day to day, and in my opinion, abused the right to call a conference for journalists from the National Assembly Hall, because he used such a thing exclusively for the open war against Alexander Vukic. As he finally made such a heavy accusation, as the prosecution became a public service to the president, who handles the political motives of the regime, Milos Vucevic decided, Mayor Novi Sad, step by step, which is to file criminal charges against Alexander and Andrej Vukic in order to investigate allegations of their alleged connection to the "Jovanjica" affair. What are we going to do now that the prosecution has determined that there is no link to the "Jovanja" case? To start with an apology, which we cannot expect from Miroslav Aleksic and which I'm sure the president will get. But what about a two-month torturer with headlines in the paper? What about the daily defilement of the President of the Republic? What about their families? What about children who are daily exposed to pressures? State authorities did their job as far as the Jovanjica case is concerned. Faces who acted against the law have been arrested. But of course, on the other hand, it is not the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia who are interested, but only in how to use every moment to lie about high-ranking state officials to deceive citizens. There's something else I want to ask. Since it is now proven that Miroslav Aleksic lied, are we going to hear at last from various independent bodies, from the Guardians of Citizens, or perhaps from the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality, and they have previously advertised, from other independent bodies, condemning the daily crucification of Alexander Vukic's cross, or has now become just some object that doesn't matter to them? Why are other cases more important to them than this, so often they react, and now you're silent about this case? There's one more question we can ask. Will we get an apology from Marinika Tepic for all lies presented about how marijuana is grown at the Morović Military Institute? For all the lies she's told, and that's where the state-owned marijuana plantation is, and in fact, that's where the chickens are carried. Will anyone, apart from SNS MPs and some ministers in the government, react to constant months of attacks on Serbia's military order, directly endangering security and destroying the reputation of our bodies and institutions? I remind you, this is the same one, Marinika Tepic, who claimed that the state of Serbia buys money from arms trafficking to withdraw recognition of the fake state of Kosovo from the UN member states. At that time, we were denied an apology for such a difficult claim, which is actually a disgusting lie. Let's remember the Krusik affair. The moment Nebojsa Stefanovic announced investigations into numerous affairs and malversions of Dragan Djilas, he became the target of an attack by Djilas' fighters. Their goal is only one, which is to draw attention to themselves and their abuses that they have committed and to shift it to the truth they have placed at a certain point. In doing so, they do not take into account the consequences that will arise. The claim that Serbia is supplying terrorists with weapons is a serious lie that could endanger our dedicated industry, but also Serbia's position on the world political scene. It has been repeatedly explained that the Ministry does not give permission to trade weapons, nor does the Minister of the Interior himself, but that there is a whole system involving several ministries, several services and administrations, many sectors that have their own role and powers, and that, in fact, the MUP only physically provides arms transport and only through our country. However, Gilas's kitchen, from which unfounded allegations and accusations come, works 24 hours to collapse the entire system, because they think it will make it easier to get hold of the authorities. But several times SNS deputies in this room repeated -- a new "5. October" will not be, we will not allow the government to change on the street, but in legitimately held elections. To return to the Krusik affair for just a short while, a false alarmer appeared once, presented to the victim of the state, and in fact he sold his country to provide information from the factory of the dedicated industry in which he works. This is used by the Alliance for Serbia, the leaders are on their way to the crash campaign and Nebojja Stefanovic and Aleksandr Vukic, as well as our dedicated industries, armies and security of our country. When some of them were wondering, let's remind ourselves that Krusik was on the verge of collapse and his business was put to the risk. Some of the current leaders of the Alliance for Serbia in the past led a policy of Serbia's collapse and would not behave differently today if they came to power. These same leaders of the Alliance for Serbia have abused so-called "the Union for Serbia". The alarming officer, they found his lawyer and began to benefit from his position daily to take the hit, to do damage to the state of Serbia. Of course, everything was clear and why he is not an alarmer and what the Alliance for Serbia leaders are up to. Can't get one, we talked about it here more than once, can't get an alarmer status if he doesn't ask the employer if he doesn't request such status from the competent state authority, or if he doesn't alert the public in a legal manner, and Obradovic hasn't done anything about it. He gets lawyer Gajic, otherwise the head of the party legal team, Vuk Jeremic, and moves against the media, starts visiting, talks at political gatherings, etc. It's been weeks. Until the false alarmer himself left house arrest directly to protest "one out of five million" and thus actually showed us all who he is and what he is doing. To make his lawyer Gajic cry in front of the court and show everyone, not only how unprofessional he is, but actually that he uses the role of a lawyer for political charges with the SNS. It seems to me that Dragan Gilas and the tears pay well. On just some of the examples I've just set, we've seen the system on which the Alliance for Serbia works. They invent an affair, they place it across their media, then they spin the same story from the National Assembly Hall for days. Unfortunately, they are part of a political mile in Serbia. The part that will never deal with the citizens and the state but with itself, gossip and policy at the level of the words - she said. And speaking of those who make up political life in Serbia, it is current these days that some new movements are formed and the question of who will go to the polls, so I would briefly recapture and comment here with my colleagues. We have the first "Metla 2020" coalition led by the DSS, we have "The People's Block" in which Velimir Ilic and a group of citizens are "Honestly for Nis". Last week, the "Free Serbia" movement was formed, those who secededed from Sergey Trifunovic and from the "Free Citizens' Movement" because "Free Citizens' Movement" decided to boycott the elections. Then they split up, created a new movement called "Free Serbia", and they also decided to boycott the elections. We have a movement formed by Cedomir Jovanovic, "The Bell, not the Party", with many other parties who do not have parties, and one of the five million has decided to go to elections to return the boycott to parliament. We have left to see, finally, who will go to the elections, and who in the boycott and who takes seriously when it is said that the electoral will of Serbian citizens should be checked and who doesn't. It seems to me that this part of the opposition I was talking about will continue to tear and as they deal with themselves they won't even notice that the SNS has won much and has continued to lead Serbia forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70589	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Since no one's answering from the president... . Comrade Seselj, you want a thing? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70590	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's session shows indignity and haughtiness in dealing, above all, with the citizens of Serbia. I will remind you all that we are still on September 16th, the SRS has submitted a bill on the executive procedure and security for which it has collected more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens in less than two months. Since we are now in an extraordinary session, the only way to get any topic on the agenda is if MPs of the ruling majority agreed. Not only could it not come to a regular meeting, but now it can't even attend an emergency session. It thus showed the authority in Serbia that a large part of Serbia's citizens absolutely do not respect and that they are not interested in what they think about any topic, and above all on such an important topic, what is the issue of public enforcement in Serbia. It is a very important issue and concerns every citizen of Serbia. We had the opportunity to see that the National Assembly was working full steam, not because someone was worth it, but because a dictatorship came from abroad. Hook Fajon, uh, the one who came here to be tutors to the authorities in Serbia, to tell them what our electoral laws are, as they say, count, count, what regulatory bodies should look like, various things. They're actually real masters and they determine what they're going to argue about. So we saw the government's reactions in Serbia, which praised our democracy, the rule of law and everything else, actually agreed with all the changes in the laws regarding funding election campaigns, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and what else did we have as part of the dictatorship? Former and current MEPs. So they said and came and said what to discuss in the National Assembly. Once there was a problem, and then everyone agreed that there was a problem, so I wonder if the SRS had collected more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens and the proposal for a new law on executive procedure and security, it might have been the wrong address to hand it over to the National Assembly's office at the Ministry of Justice. Perhaps we should have handed it over to the Open Society Fund at Milan Antonijevic, this election law expert of yours, the George Soros Foundation or the EU Representation in Serbia, to find this once on the agenda of the National Assembly. So absolutely disrespecting a large number of Serbian citizens. I'll remind you that not long ago we discussed another law that also supported a lot of people. It's about putting a life sentence in prison with the ferocious murder of children and some other members. Any argument that could have been made against that solution or for any additional change of that solution, by the government, by Mrs Kuburovic, was answered -- yes, it is, but 150,000 Serbian citizens supported this. How are some citizens in Serbia more important than others to be so brutally offended? It is a very important topic over which the government in Serbia closes its eyes, they are absolutely not interested. Let's look at the public executioner geneaze. They were introduced in 2011 as part of a comprehensive reform of the judiciary dictated by the EU in Serbia, which we heard criticism from people in power today, and the ruling party was against the solution in time. So the SNS was against the introduction of public contractors, at the time of the opposition in 2011, and after they came to power, the solution was widely accepted, confirmed it once again in 2015 and then half in 2019. We've seen some populist changes that mean nothing. They were good to serve marketing purposes last year when Mrs Kuburovic explained changes that she would not be able to confiscate property in debt for municipal services less than 5,000 euros. We haven't heard the argument for that number, nor for that decision, it's important that it sounds good in the media even though it's about communal claims. The majority of the abduction of housing units, the kidnapping of Serbian citizens' property, is due to debt to banks, not to utility services. It's like no one notices, like no one knows at the Justice Department. That's not the problem he's dealing with. So, since 2011, we have public executioners. It has already been shown in practice, soon to be nine years, so that a private person is charged from a debt-trust relationship, often and more times for his taxes, so the fees for their services are much higher than that of the basic debt. We had scandalous situations where one executive seized an apartment in New Belgrade, a secret bidding nobody knows when or where it is held. The son of Vice-President Komor of Kragujevac buys an apartment on New Belgrade's Vice-President of the Chamber of Executives, buys an apartment from an executive who previously seized it from New Belgrade at a price three times the market price. And no one can see that. We had situations almost daily that were ruthlessly and unscrupulously thrown out by people who, from objective circumstances, could not serve their debt on time, those who were not in debt out of oblivion, those who were in debt due to living needs, were thrown into the street even though they were powerless persons, persons with disabilities, single parents, people in years, pensioners, etc. That's allowed in Serbia. Public perpetrators are uninterrupted, honoring the exceptions, but the vast majority of them are unhindered by real estate, hence the property of Serbian citizens, and are officially supported by the government of the Republic of Serbia, bearing in mind that wherever they appear, they are going with the police battalion. So, the police are in the position of enriching a particular piece of the i.e. A certain number of people. There are more than 200 of these perpetrators in Serbia. Mrs. Kuburovic boasted that now, because we have perpetrators no longer executed in courts, we now have a much more efficient collection of debts. For example, a million and a half unfinished items are now below 600,000. The principle of efficiency in charging debts cannot stand before the principle of respect for human rights and human dignity, and we have seen that it violates itself daily in Serbia. That's unacceptable. There's a question. The introduction of the perpetrator is one of the jurisdictional powers and jurisdiction in the execution of the charge of debts entrusted to a private person. It's for a country that's devastating. How can some jurisdiction be in private hands? So does that open up the possibility that tomorrow we have a private police force, or a private army, or a private prison, etc.? It's a pandan of what we have in the executioner. So it's not a state body, it's a private person who has jurisdiction of the court. Noting Serbia's flag in front of his office does not mean that he is a state body or that he is a state body. Tomorrow, we can remember that a private court can do so if it will be more effective to bring judgments or private police if it will be more effective to take care of order and peace in Serbia. It proved, above all, that DS and then other authorities after 2012, were unable to solve the problem of inefficient judiciary. And instead of doing something about it, they went along with less resistance to simply give some private to do it and then nine years later we have a racket organization that, first of all, sees a chance to get out, first of all, from the overindebted citizens, not the richest layer in Serbia, and we saw that they are in debt more and more, and that no one touches and that they owe millions of euros, and those who haven't returned two credit wars should suffer. So they gave it to some racketeer, a private person. The debtor behind whom the police are going. It's a public executioner today. The question arises, Mrs Kuburovic said that in the first half of 2019, arguing the existence, justifying the existence of public enforcement officers in Serbia, on behalf of the value added tax, paid almost a billion dinars in the budget of Serbia for six months in 2019. It just means that in the first six months they had a five billion dinar trade, so they made four billion dinars. The question arises, if they work in accordance with the law, if they do not violate human rights and human dignity, if they are not freely rich in overindebted citizens, why would a single state willingly give up that income, if there is nothing controversial about a privateer? What can be done for four billion dinars, it's only in six months, so it's not on the annual level? Why was that given to a private to do that? We've had many cases like this. We had a case where a public contractor was charged out of wheelchairs. That's what the newspapers write about, and for example, at the Justice Department, nobody really sees it, because they care about the principle of efficiency. So, a public executioner comes in, without any notice with a police escort, kicks someone out of his apartment, and then someone's bound to pay the executioner that favor he got kicked out of his apartment. It's a reality in Serbia today. This should be discussed and there should be a way for the judiciary to reform itself, to return to the courts because it is not normal for a private person, for whom, apparently, the laws do not apply, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not apply, to get rich, so we had cases, and we could see it in the press, how much the property of these people, these perpetrators, has changed, and some of the people with average earnings have become millionaires, to live in the most exclusive settlements and so on, and all of this has made it possible for the state of Serbia. The judiciary must be reformed and the execution returned to the courts. If it is ineffective to employ more people to work on, to execute, tie their salaries to the effect of execution, but in the way that the old court guarantee has to be respected by human rights and human dignity, it is a guarantee that the perpetrator cannot fool anyone into piling up some real estate, an apartment that he thinks he can move in or sell to someone he knows. Where do these auctions and auctions take place, does anyone know about it? Nobody knows that. It happens all around a few of them. It has to be a guarantee, and that's the proposal that we went out with, that a minimum of 12 squares of living space per household member must be guaranteed, from which it cannot be executed. It's respect for human dignity and human rights. Not -- solve the problem so we can get someone else to deal with it. I guess the experience in these nine years has shown us that it's a very bad solution. The existence of public enforcement in Serbia is a very bad solution, absolutely against the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The greatest anger today is against public executioners. It's not for no reason. It's because of their practice. They're official, official debt seekers, racketeeres. I appeal again to you to put this issue on the agenda, to show at least some difference between you and the Democratic Party, not to accept these solutions, i.e. to stop expressing support for these solutions. If you don't, then you show that you're the same as them. To be clear, everyone should pay what's due and pay with reasonable interest. But to lose everything because it's not because of some life situation, objective circumstances that he couldn't count on when he took a loan, he lost his house or apartment, and that's why he needs to get into the country, it can't be allowed in Serbia. A privateer shall not have the authority of the State and shall not be allowed to do all that the perpetrator has done because the number of non-executed cases is reduced. That's not normal. The judicial reform was implemented in Serbia in accordance with EU directives in time. It's not because of our best interests, but because they wanted to experiment with us -- let's see, if we do that to Serbia and what's going to happen. That's what we serve them for. And this law on enforcement and security is in the function of it. That's why it needs a complete change. The Serbian Radical Party once again invites you to put the bill we have submitted, which supported more than 100,000 Serbian citizens, on the agenda. The Serbian Radical Party is the only parliamentary party in favour of abolishing them, for the abolition of public executioners. Keep in mind, if you support uninterrupted savagery, uninterrupted wealth, fraud, it's not about all public executioners, but for the great majority is, at all, their ruthless conduct, you're also taking responsibility for everything they do. It's inadmissible and has to change urgently. It must be respect for the human rights of Serbian citizens. Respect for the dignity of all Serbian citizens is more important than how many cases will be carried out or outstanding, and the Republic of Serbia should work to reform the judiciary, to create an environment for courts to be able to carry out their jobs uninterrupted, to charge debts, but to ensure that the guarantee on the side of the state is that no one will be robbed just because it is due. That's the point, that's the most important thing, and that's what we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70591	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Col. Zarić Kovacevic, you want a replica to be presented by colleagues of Seselj as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70592	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to react. It is clear to me that there will be a lot of respect for the SNS, but very disrespect for the citizens of Serbia and for the violation of human rights and dignity are the heavy accusations I wanted to respond to, with this very clear data that I am about to present to you. As regards the executive procedure and the protection of executive debtors that the Serbian Government has certainly worked on in this term, one of the most important solutions is to prohibit the execution of the sale of the sole immobility owned by an executive debtor, a natural person, in order to settle claims from municipal or related activity. We will come to that point, as regards municipal activities, a certain amount of 5,000 euros, as the minister, Mrs Kuburovic, really spoke about it when we were working on amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security. So, so many SNS and this government don't think about Serbian citizens that they don't owe two-thirds of the income anymore, but one-third of pensions, and one-third of pensions that don't exceed the average pension amount, according to the last published data from the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, tens of them, when it comes to pensions whose height does not exceed the lowest amount of pension. So much for the SNS and this government not taking care of Serbian citizens. When it comes to anti-corruption measures, it is true that the need to intervene more significantly in this part of the law, and in the very text of the law, was recognised, and we did so when amendments were made to the law on enforcement and security, when the rule of who cannot be a buyer in the enforcement process was strengthened -- public executioners, their deputies, assistants, as well as other persons employed by a public executioner. They are completely excluded from the possibility of buying immovable property, and even the ministry is overseeing the work of public executioners. It is impossible for people who are in the ministry to also buy some real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70593	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70594	We can talk that it's never better, that it's never higher wages, never higher pensions, never higher employment, never bigger this, never bigger that, for the first time in history in this or the first time in history that. That doesn't match the reality in Serbia. This is best seen in this question of the perpetrator. We heard Mrs. Kuburovic, she had no answers to those questions. The 5,000-euro measure, prescribed for municipal claims, is a populist measure. It doesn't solve the basic issue, and the basic question is borrowing from banks. When someone's due for electricity, it's one month long. Second month's power's off. How long does it take to be someone's due, physical face, for electricity to come up to five grand? That he doesn't pay for two years. Or water? So that's not the basic problem, that's one populist measure. We have seen on several issues of this argument that it was not the current government that brought it, but the former one, etc. That's not why this government doesn't have 126 MPs to change this solution. In 2017 alone, more than 3,700 properties, primarily housing units and up to 50 square meters were kidnapped by Serbian citizens. Don't talk about how it doesn't happen now. So that is one burning issue that Serbian citizens are facing. It must be dealt with urgently in their interest, not in the interest of any esnaf or association of some private persons, even if it is the chamber of executioners. They must not have priority over Serbian citizens and should not be fooled that the problem does not exist, since the problem is obvious, large and every day is, unfortunately, growing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70595	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Right on line, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70596	Thank you, Chairman. We are not here today to talk about what happened for the first time in history, whether this happened or what happened in the Republic of Serbia. We're here to talk some concrete stuff and read concrete data. Since the SNS respects continuing the work of the DS, first of all, what does the continuity of the government mean? So, there was a government back then, she was passing certain laws, there's a government now, the Assembly is passing certain laws, but I know that there's been talk of continuity here in an ugly way, in terms of what laws they've passed by 2012. Well, here's what I'll tell you. So in 2011, the law on enforcement and security was absolutely not intended for public enforcement to have, as one of the conditions to be met for the election, passed a judicial exam. In 2015, as I recall, the SNS and the ruling coalition were in power, so we said that public perpetrators must have passed a judicial exam. But let me remind you, as an additional qualification, we said they had to have completed training to know what they were doing and how they were doing. I'll remind you of one more thing. The 2011 law took the right of the debtor to a basic remedy, to a legal remedy. The executive did not have the right to appeal at the time. From 2011 to 1 July 2016, when the amendments and amendments entered into force, which were adopted in 2015, the executive debtors had only the right to use the complaint and the request to remove irregularities because the appeal did not exist in the executive procedure. In 2015, the terrible power of the SNS has led to our citizens who are in the role of the executive debtor to file a complaint in the executive procedure. If you want to go back a little bit, I have just so much time, the 2000 law introduced debt slavery, or debt prison, because it was then said – unless the person fulfilled his obligation, or the obligation to do so, that obligation was replaced by a fine unless you paid the fine, you went to prison in 2000. That's the difference between the SNS and all the parties that were in power before.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70597	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70598	Continuity exists because, first of all, acceptance of very bad solutions. So, the parliamentary group of stolen mandates, which was from 2008 to 2012, which called itself "Forward Serbia" was not for this solution when the Democrats adopted this, and after they came to power after 2012, we saw this in 2015 and 2019, this solution was accepted by both parties. Training, anyway, etc., what does that mean, that the perpetrators are trained for what they are doing now in Serbia? As with the Rules of Procedure's questions about the work of the National Assembly, there can be no argument – we did not bring it. It's your responsibility to change that in the last eight years. Once passed, no law has been passed for all time, it can be changed by the law of the established procedure or passed a new law. So are the questions of execution. The reforms of the judiciary are being criticised. How many times have we heard from the representatives of the executive authority and from the MPs – the yellow judges, the judges who set up the yellow ones, etc., their legal solutions? What's this? Who set these perpetrators up? Who's supporting them now? Don't tell me they're now supported by DS in 2020. They're supported by another party. It's a big question, it's very important, it's not being solved. These cosmetic changes cannot help those who have suffered for the past eight years because of the practices of public executioners, in 90% of the cases the Republic of Serbia has supported, taking into account, above all, what police are always and everywhere. That's insane. This has to change, and what happened in 2015 or 2019, that some of the loops have been legally changed has not resolved the essential issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70599	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Right on line, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70600	Thank you, Chairman. The fact that I spoke earlier at the National Assembly sessions – yellow courts, yellow judges, etc., unfortunately, I know very well what the reform of the judiciary was in 2008 and 2009, because I was at the time working in law. What one colleague said from here – either, it didn't happen again. We also know what kind of personnel they brought in yellow to judge, and we know what kind of personnel they drove out of the courts in the most terrible way possible. But if we don't go back to it, there's gonna be a chance to talk about it. It's clear to me that someone thinks that there should be no law or that someone has any objections, but what about the protection of the debtors, if we are here, let's say, now in this part of the debate, we put the debtors first? A lot of situations have been observed in which there is a situation so-called. ‘stealing requires’. Therefore, against the same debtor, the same company submitted several proposals for enforcement. Do you know how much debt this debtor owes when the same company submits more proposals for execution, and the proposals for execution are submitted every month? Every month, the current of limitations is interrupted, and in the end, when all these proposals for execution are combined into one, then the debtor is obliged as much, and you're wondering where you get 5,000 euros from here? Someone may owe little to some municipal debt, but when that happens, it's over 5,000 euros in debt. That is why the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Implementation and Security provides a limited amount of 5,000 euros. Also, I wanted to tell you, one of the reasons why it came to 5,000 euros is because it was seen as an average profit on an annual basis. When you calculate 12 months of average earnings, that's about that amount. So, on the one hand, the average earnings at the annual level, and on the other hand, the Working Group at the Justice Ministry had in mind the items that are old, according to courts, the claims of certain people are at stake, with a heavy interest charged over a period of 10 years, very easy to get a figure that exceeds 5,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70601	Thank you, colleague. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70602	Apartments and houses are not being hijacked because of electricity bills in Serbia. It's being kidnapped because citizens are in debt to banks, not EDB. That's a fact. Veroljub Arsic: According to the Rules of Procedure. There's no such thing. It didn't solve the main question. We've collected more than 100,000 signatures in less than two months. This has shown the importance of the issue for Serbian citizens. That should be enough reason for the National Assembly to at least discuss it. He doesn't have to adopt, you don't have to vote "yes", but you have to respect them and discuss it so that every one of them can make his arguments. We are both determined and will also be in the future for the abolition of public executioners. You're justifying their existence for something. We can't think about it if the electricity bill happens now, so I don't know what, how many cases of these more than 600,000 executions are there, that real estate is being hijacked for communal claims? Very little. A large number for the info, but relative to the loans, very little. When an executioner charges costs, it is not for the benefit of the trustee, but for his personal benefit, it appears as a third party in a bonding relationship and very often happens to make a lot of money from the bonding relationship, but as a trustee. It's also a reality in Serbia. That's inadmissible. The trustees should also be protected. Everyone should pay what is due, but not protect them by robbing a debtor, but by paying their debt to a reasonable extent without any risk that because of the specific living circumstances he could not pay the debt on time, he was left without a roof over his head.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70603	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. A colleague of Arsic's, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70604	Article 107, chairman, the dignity of the National Assembly, which is why I understand certain MPs speaking populistly about certain topics, but still do not insult the dignity of the National Assembly. So, the fact is that in the people they're never popular, they're not judicial perpetrators, they're not private perpetrators. They're not as popular as lenders and as creditors for certain debts. Now, especially if these banks where they are the founders of foreign origin, it is very easy to lead citizens astray, draw the wrath of citizens on financial institutions and thus reach certain political points. However, there is also a big delusion, which is that banks work most with their money. No, I don't. They work most with money belonging to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so we can't bring ourselves into this correlation, that someone can explain to me if the bank has too many NLPs, so NBS gets a negative assessment of its business and starts a National Bank bankruptcy, who is going to depose those citizens who deposited money with the banks to receive salaries, pensions, etc. to deprive those citizens? That's what the esteemed colleague Seselj can't mention. Who's going to make those citizens look bad? Now the bank, which went into bankruptcy, owes the money, and went into bankruptcy because it was not possible to carry out the procedure for the collection of court claims. Let him answer me. So it's very easy to make a populist story based on this populist story to make some political points. But it's very difficult to run the country. Their own attitude towards populistism and populist points shows that they would lead the state, in one way that was overcome, which is from the time the banks were state-owned, when the state banks were giving loans that no one could and didn't want to charge, but you printed on Topcider full steam, so we know how we went when the citizens received a five-mark salary.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70605	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Since you pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by me, I do not think I did it in a particular case, because it is not my place to conduct dialogue with the MPs, but rather a session of the National Assembly and I only allowed my colleague, Seselj and colleague Žarić Kovacevic, to have a democratic debate. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Fellow Members Žarić Kovačević, do you want a replica of the presentation of colleagues of Seselj? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70606	Thank you, Chairman. Since we've moved on to another field, which is that citizens are in debt to the bank and since counterpart Arsic says we don't speak populistly, here, I'm going to say something that might not be liked by many, which is yes, citizens are obliged to the bank, but do you know how many people I know that they've gone into debt without fully considering how they're going to repay those loans? They took loans for vacations, they took loans for cars, they took loans for apartments without looking at those contracts, they didn't consult lawyers, they didn't consult lawyers, and then they're in trouble, but they're in trouble too. On the other hand, he says - the perpetrator earns money, but the perpetrator has to earn money. A public contractor provides a certain service, as a lawyer provides a certain service and is most normal and is most logical to earn a certain amount of money for his job. As for the protection of debtors, not only are the executive debtors of Serbian citizens, and executive creditors are citizens of Serbia. The justice ministry has formed a disciplinary commission overseeing the work of the perpetrators, and most members of the judge's office who control the work are elected in the commission. Also, on the Executive Chamber's advertising board with every conclusion on sales, on the public sale of some real estate, everyone can get to know each other and come if he's interested and attends public sales. So it's not exactly a situation to control anything. It's not exactly a situation that there's no surveillance. It is a situation that, from 2000 to 2019, the law on enforcement and security has changed a lot, but it has changed because, above all, with its fellow MPs from the ruling coalition, the SNS wanted to improve the Law on Implementation and Security, to equalise the position of the executive debtor and the executive trustee, to provide certain protection to executive creditors, to ensure certain protection to executive debtors. And as for the courts, we can talk about it, but I've been over it for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70607	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70608	It's nice to hear that they actually exist because of the citizens of Serbia. I was convinced it was completely different, but if it is necessary for Serbian citizens to exist public executioners, then it is a very different matter. The perpetrator has to earn something, so he has to, but is it normal for six months for 200 people to share 30 million euros? Is that normal? That's what Mrs. Kuburovic said, I didn't make it up. A little over 200 people about 30m euros in six months and so on every year. So who's right about that, and how are citizens really protected and trusted? Look out, 30 million euros in six months. Privates function better and adapt to the market than companies controlled by the state, as far as the economy is concerned. It's empirically proven. But it can't be a pandan for someone to be more efficient, and then for him to be given state jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the court. So tomorrow, we can remember that it is more effective for a private legislative body to pass laws than the National Assembly, and that, in principle of efficiency, we can abolish parliament and that some private people are passing laws, not to mention that we can have private prisons and private police and private military. We can remember, the private police are more effective than the official police of the Republic of Serbia, so what do we need the police for? It's the logic of things in the existence of public executioners and it's concise and abnormal and unnecessary. No one is protected except for the public contractor and his extra profit from every claim, to those things that openly insult citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who, above all, throw them out into the street from their apartment, and then throw them out on the street. It's abnormal, it's inadmissible, and it needs to change urgently.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70609	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70610	Thank you, Chairman. I won't say what my colleague Arsic told me. The question arises why are judicial perpetrators introduced? First of all, court enforcers are the consequence of European Court of Human Rights decisions, where decisions have been taken against the Republic of Serbia for failure to respect a reasonable time limit for trial, because the trial includes within a reasonable period of time both the litigation and the executive procedure and the maximum number of performances before the European Court of Human Rights concerned unpaid workers' earnings in restructured enterprises. We have had dozens, hundreds of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights where extremely high obligations for non-implementation of decisions in the executive procedure have been established. It's on one side. On the other hand, I really don't think it's right to satanicize one profession, that it's wrong to satanicize one procedure. The executive procedure shall take place as the crown of the litigation procedure. If you have completed the litigation procedure and if you have received a verdict and have taken an enforcement clause and if your verdict is legal and enforceable, you cannot carry out the verdict. You can't execute it. You can't collect your claims. Then what does that mean for an executive procedure? Then the executive procedure shouldn't exist. How will you charge your debt if you lend someone money for an executive verdict if we feel that the executive procedure should not exist, or that public executioners should not exist? Both public perpetrators and bailiffs act exclusively according to the judgment. Therefore, the court shall adopt a decision to be followed by a public enforcer or a court enforcer. There's one more thing to say only in favor of that. While executions were in courts, according to official data from the Council of Europe, Serbia had 408,000 unsolved executive cases, of which 90,000 waited for more than two years, and the European average for execution at that time was between 30 and 40 days. That's what I say - yellow power, because it's information, or information from 2009. This was one of the main things at the time that prevented investors and foreign investors and investments and everything for the rest of the execution process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70611	Thank you. My colleague Seselj, you will be entitled to the replica, but please and colleague Žarić Kovacevic, too, to slowly bring this debate to an end, because we have the disdain of the other colleagues of authorised representatives who are begging and waiting to come to order to talk about the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70612	First, we've heard the bailiffs more than once. They're not bailiffs, they're public executioners. All that we've heard so far is devastating for the state of Serbia. It is a recognition that the state of Serbia cannot solve the problem of ineffectiveness of execution and instead gives private persons the opportunity to do so. And then we have a situation at half a year's level, so in six months 200 people earn 30m euros because they were executed on behalf of the state. On the other hand, when the real estate is taken, the bank wants to know what's going to be seized, there's nothing to ask that court. Tarife determines how much it will cost when he throws you out, how much it will cost when he comes to the door with the police, so he can let you know, so he can hand it over to you. That's insane. The state of Serbia acknowledges defeat that it cannot solve the problem. Instead of working on it, even if that reform was to last two, three, four, five, as long as it takes, years, it's much better than legalizing a robbery. So, to create such an environment that a judicial perpetrator can do his job, a person whose salary is linked to the effect, and a guarantee that no one will be cheated and robbed because it belongs to a competent court, the state of Serbia is behind it. You hire more people, if necessary, and raise their salaries, not the interest of the bank, the public executioner's interest in being a priority and any sense. It's illegal and abnormal to exist because we've seen from practice what's going on. We didn't think of it because it doesn't happen in Serbia, that it's a whim and so on and that's why so many people supported it. Sixty million euros per year, 30m euros in six months, those people earn. Is it possible that it costs that much? That's what Mrs. Kuburovic said. It's just a problem and it shows that this country is not independent, it can't solve its problems. Whatever regime it was when it was introduced, now it's some other regime, maybe it can better look at the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70613	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Comrade Žarić Kovacevic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70614	Just some more information to bring out the Honorable Chairman, and I will no longer answer for the replicas, there will be more time in today's day. What is devastating for the Republic of Serbia is the yellow reform of the yellow judiciary in 2008 and 2009. What was devastating for the Republic of Serbia and what was devastating for the city of Nis is Zoran Zivkovic, who brought containers to King Milan Square and urged people to burn electricity bills, so those people were perpetrators outside the door, not Zoran Zivkovic, who was having a great time here in Belgrade. As for the difference between the judicial perpetrators and the public perpetrators, the judicial perpetrators were mostly persons who conducted the execution in courts, they were civil servants, but very often they were with, say, high school. Now the perpetrators have to have a law school, they have to have a judicial exam and they have to go through certain training. That's why, here's how effective the system was in execution in courts. This suggests that since 2015 we have had over 2,000 executive cases in courts that lasted for over tens of years. Do you know that in practice I have seen examples when an executive trustee submits an initial act and together with this initial act, i.e. the motion to execute an executive case stands in court for a year, two, three, five, 10, 15 and cannot be remembered as working. On the other hand, I've also met court enforcers who have done a great job, but can't just say that - the courts need more judicial enforcers. How many Serbian residents are there? There are also employees of judges, judicial perpetrators and other people working in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70615	Thank you, colleague. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's my turn. I respect that there are followers of John Pernar. So the main political stance or part of the political programme is enforcement. It's hard to be an arbiter between creditors and debtors. It's hard to be an executor, whether you're judicial, whether you're public. Look, we've got public executioners and bailiffs. For me, they're both public. The court is part of the public government, at least that's how I see it. Judicial perpetrators and public perpetrators, so-called Privately, they make decisions, implement decisions made by the court. Without a solution to execution, court, there is no execution. The law we found was very bad. Which one of you was the subject of the execution of those years knows best. I was lucky enough to feel the execution of DS. Bojan Pajtic, for example, posted because he didn't like some of my discussions and while still ruling the Vojvodina with 6% support... They're the ones who, with 6% support, would violently win power, because they're used to 6% of the support to hold power. They don't even have 6% now, but they all have 6% together, it's a dozen versions of DS, they couldn't do themselves, they gnawed the party, they gnawed the program, they became a party without a program and without membership, and now they're boycotting as something. So, in their time, I was the subject of execution. It wasn't half-paid, it was two-thirds of the salary. Lucky for me, they had nothing to take. Imagine, I get 14 solutions in 2014 or 2015, 14 solutions in 2006 and 2007. Fourteen solutions – disposal fee for the “Vojvod’s water”. One taxpayer can have one solution a year, but in two years when you have 14 solutions, it indicates that this execution prize is so little thicker. The more solutions, the more stalling, etc., the more rich it is. Of course, then they found a yellow executor, the yellow executor found a yellow judge. Do you know how the judge made his decision? By just pounding the seal on the execution solution, Rističević Marijan, etc., to execute, the pair, over. That seal, I don't know, cost two, three thousand dinars. Apparently, my data used cost two, three thousand dinars, etc. Well, they multiplied it, and along with the interest, they took 750,000 dinars, the doctors pulled them out, and what do we do? So, at that point, I had the right to object. There was no complaint. That's what we've been introducing, various reliefs on the issue, especially the debtor. So, ever since we changed, we've changed in favor of the debtor. I hope that the time will come for these debtors to be as little as possible, that Serbia will stand economically, better and better, and that these debtors and creditors will be less and less, that there will be no need for any judicial execution, nor for the execution of public perpetrators. I am also working on this by the ruling majority, and I believe many well-intentioned opposition colleagues are working on it, criticising us to make the country's economic situation as good as possible, to be the best personal incomes, the incomes of farmers, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, not to get into a situation to come and be the subject of execution because of some non-payment. For example, I, who was the subject, make an objection because the judge wrote to do this on me, exploited my data, but at the solution that I was charged with from "Vojvodina Water" written "Risticevic Mirjana", debts from 2006, 2007, five years old, it was eight years old, but Pajtic remembered and who said – he certainly does not keep the solutions to the disposal fees, and after one eight years they found his executioner, the executioner found his yellow judge, who, behold, from Mitrovica comes to do so in India, is the executioner from Sremska Mitrovica. It was all wrapped up in a yellow coast, and they were beautiful, not half, but two-thirds of the salary zealously executed. I made that complaint within five days. Of course, friends of Pajtic were not the subject of execution. So, I've filed a complaint within five days that was a legal provision, only you're making noises, you can't interfere with me, so I've made a legal complaint. The judge had, right, Mr. Martinovic, had an obligation to handle it within five days. So, the complaint is filed in five days, the judge has five days to object. They haven't saved him for five months. It's called in the law of negligent judges, and that's why the judge's impeachment to stop his function and, of course, the High Council of the Judiciary, composed of the Yellow God-fearing Judges, you know, didn't occur to them that such a judge who granted such an execution denied the opportunity to bring such a solution to someone else, because they had something to charge for, but it was a big question of what would happen, and it was likely that someone else under some conditions would not come under the influence of such a law. We've changed laws, established the right to appeal. If I had had it, I'd probably have done better and finally to say that the elder of that court said that, yes, I was right, but, well, she had to protect her colleague and to protect her colleague, they made the conclusion that what was in 2006 and 2007, the fact that Risticevic Mirjana was not important, that they in their conclusion harmonize the data from 2006 with my data, almost an incredible exhibition, and that conclusion is probably an act of a court against which no appeal is allowed. Is that right, Mr. Martinovic? And they bragged about how they did it on me, and the court chief said-- well, well, yeah, he was right, but I had to protect my colleague. What did I tell you? Because we're making noises to public executioners that we're denying part by piece of jurisdiction, I'm not saying there's no abuse, but I think the main question is the question of the court. So if the court doesn't allow the execution of a public enforcer to sing martial arts, and the greatest injustice is when a court in a poor woman brings a solution to an execution that is not legal, and often does so. The greatest sin is when a court decides to execute, so let's say, there's one for those utility services, they like an apartment, so the bailiff finds a judge, and they make a nice deal for a certain percentage, so that conclusion is notified to someone, right, so as soon as that conclusion gets hung up on that nail on the ad board, someone takes it off, so the first price goes, and then the price goes down, etc. We know that some judges are in combination trying with that electronic ad board, etc. We're trying to solve that, too. You can no longer take two-thirds of the salary, two-thirds of the pension. We've been trying to get out of debt for the most part. But my criticism refers to the court. A solution to the execution must not be made lightly. It must not be given lightly to the court, but to someone whose fate is in the hands of irresponsible perpetrators, that part of the irresponsible perpetrators. You can't get over that execution prize anymore, we've already banned it, the height of the debt. You can't take public services for real estate unless it's 5,000. Some of the main arguments of abuse have been ruled out. I believe that we will continue to work on this law, because practice brings to them all newspapers, attempts at abuse, etc., but I believe that the time should come when executions will be less and less, when debts will be less and less dissatisfied creditors and even more dissatisfied debtors. To achieve this, Serbia must develop its economy, but no one here will talk about some other perpetrators. Most famous for me, Serbia's executive Dragan Gilas. It carried out over Serbia's citizens 619m euros worth of execution. I'm responsible for that. If someone who does not have a product, if someone who is in public office to their companies while he was in public office has received 619m euros, I ask – to whom is the damage of 619m euros Dragan Gilas earned, i.e. probably made at a certain number of citizens, and I think that's over for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Look at what he did to the party whose president he was. Imagine that execution when he agreed with Bojan Pajtic, who charged me for what he had charged, I already said that the doctors were pulling out of him and I am not ashamed to direct that kind of curse to the one who ruled at 6% and who is ruled on social networks on a daily basis by members of the majority. So, in agreement with Bojan Pajtic, he became the owner of one party by buying a debt, buying a debt to the party, set interest rate of 18%, it is a special type of interest-executor that charges 18% of the interest per year and thus became the owner of the party. He gained political influence in parliament that he did not objectively have. He became head of the party through the shadow money and could have ordered these unfortunates to come out and boycott the National Assembly. Why are they boycotting the National Assembly? Because of Gilas and Solak's business. For a year I warned you, from most of you, from the opposition, and we're almost all agreed that we don't have a problem with these yellow unfortunates, but that we have a problem with Gilas and Solak's business, with their execution. Look at the blackmail on Telecom. Imagine if 150 or 200 channels, how many Telecoms there are, each cable channel would be paid 0.4 euros per user. That would be 320,000 euros times 150 to 45m euros, so let's say for 800,000 users each would have to pay a monthly subscription of 60 euros. Let me just tell you that Solak and Gilas want to execute something on Serbian citizens who are not in SBB subscribers, but are in Telecom, and the SBB would like to take their chance and use these as a physical workforce. So, if he seals Sollaku and Gilas, Gilas who pushed these into debt slavery is determined to execute it politically and financially with 18% interest, Aleksandra Jerkov goes gratis, Gordana Comic goes gratis, Balša Bozovic goes gratis, Hijna Kena goes gratis and they are forced, they are a little rebelling, they are in a certain way the enforcer of the power of Dragan Dilas, to be executioners of the fees they receive here from the state for the party, etc., to pay the debt and 18% interest, etc. and part of that money on that interest association "Davidovic" to vegetate, Gilas returns, but then from that "Davidovic" they get his people's money to hold protests so that they can, so that he has this physical workforce that goes to do the will of Solak and Gilas. It's a special type of executioner. You all forgot Borko Stefanovic. He ran the satellites. If you remember what Tadic, Marovic and that unfortunate Djukanovic, who screws Serbs, are only after Serbs because they are Serbs, wants to erase Serbia's identity in Montenegro, they bought... You know how they buy? They say the federal state is buying a satellite, or footage of a two-day delay as a result of terrorism. Imagine a terrorist who's been doing a terrorist act and waits two days to get a picture of him, that is, to come to Serbia so that they can chase him. That's the kind of terrorist I haven't seen, and that's why they bought satellites from Israelis. How long was it, Mr. Orlic? About 40 million euros. Bought by Montenegrins, three Montenegrins for the federal state, but to pay for the Republic of Serbia. You know who did that? He executed Borko Stefanovic all 40m euros, which was the same thing with the Americans – give the American family there, I don't know, this beat up Kovacevic to someone there, a million euros. Who's the executioner? The perpetrator is Borko Stefanovic. It's a special species, not to mention, it's a special type of execution. They've passed that first mutilation law, they're the main architects of this law. We've been trying and we'll keep trying to rewrite it. But I have a problem with executions, and most of all I have a problem with, and we've already seen that courts in most cases, like that Majic, he protected a pedophile at the expense of a 13-year-old girl. That's a fact. We've already seen various judges and various judgments. He is protecting 11 Albanian terrorists who killed 80 Serbs and tortured 270 more. So, the famous Gnjilan group that took life by taking away the soul. Which means, they tortured Serbs until they dropped their souls and wonders, the court in Belgrade and Judge Majic, and what was the name of Karamehmedovic, I can't remember the other one, Hadziomerovic, right? I apologize to Karamehmedovic for bringing him into this relationship, but that first occurred to me. So when we have such judges in appeals courts, imagine what we have in these basic courts, imagine different aunts, cousins, aunts of all these yellow ones, who were not responding because of that big robbery. I wish those courts, which I claim should not be changed to the Constitution, and that they should not be given even greater powers, because they have already chosen the Supreme Council of the judiciary that they need to resolve, and they will not be resolved if we give them even greater powers, it will become not only a political party in the country, it will become a company of commerce and we will not be able to do anything to them if there are various illegal executions. That's why my appeal to the judges is that they don't do it anymore. The appeal to fellow MPs that one day we have to comb the court, see who really deserves to be a judge, and I would like young lawyers to participate in this, not to be some political decision, to give us a meeting of some lawyers who have become lawyers in the meantime since 2012, so to this day, that they as new people determine what they think we should do and who really is consistent with the judicial functions. With Majic and this, as it is called, Hadziomerovic and various others, we will not get far in execution. So, as long as the judges approve of the execution of injustice will be, and I appeal to all ministers, to all opposition and ruling MPs, to do everything to make the Serbian economy progress even faster than it is now progressing, to pay more and more, to be from real sources of economic growth, and thus to reduce the possibility of people remaining in debt, and to have trustees execute, or perpetrators, in favour of the creditors, that debt, because then, I do not believe that the trustee is very cheerful, and in that case, the debtor in some kind of despair. In order to prevent that from happening in the future, it is my appeal that as much as possible to work on the economy, that everyone in our community, all of us in the National Assembly, make as many regulations as possible, a decision that will benefit all investors with domestic and foreign capital that this country progresses faster and that the people have more and more money, that they don't have to be owed to anyone and that they don't have to experience in front of the family some humiliation in the event of execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70617	I thank my colleague Rističević. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass an act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We move on to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a search on the proposal for authentic interpretation referred to in item 1 of the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70618	Your Honor, we have a procedural question before us, which, because of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we certainly need to coordinate and resolve. But this is also a reason to deal with the law on enforcement and security. Any law when introduced for the first time in a country and society should be kept in mind and be prepared to apply that law can cause certain problems, which should be brought into line with things needs, but also with valuable principles and interests. It is good when the law provides efficiency, which is the case with this law, however, no advanced society and the state must forget that the central figure of every law is not the law or the matter itself, but always the man. I'm deliberately saying man, maybe before I tell the citizen, because somehow the notion of a citizen is a little dehumanized by a man, bringing him down to a certain statistical number. The concept of man is, in fact, what must not be neglected in any way, either individually or collectively, because when we deal with man and when this concept and all the values that come from this concept and concern him, we have before us as we design and make laws, there will certainly be fewer mistakes and failures of these laws, both in the theoretical regulatory work and in practice, or in application. The fact that certain problems arise in the application of this law, not in a procedural way, but in a fundamental sense, when it comes to man, especially that poor, weakened man who unfortunately is the victim of numerous, earlier policies, but also what is called transition, and that lasts more than three decades, which should not be possible, because transition shouldn't take so long. This looks more like some kind of fermentation than the transition itself, but the victim and the result of that condition and the wrong, earlier policies is very often that man, his humanity, his sufficientness, that is, the basic vertical that makes him human most often threatened. In fact, we MPs, in addition to worrying that the laws that we make are legally justified, justified, are in line with the Constitution and other laws, must not lose any sense of man, especially for that weak and poor man who is most often the victim. We have a rich history experience. I will note that once again in the seventh century, the famous Muslim ruler, known for his righteousness, Azret Omer, in the year of hunger and poverty, suspended the religious regulation of giving rabbits, so God’s regulation of compulsory giving because the citizens of that year were hungry, or poor. So the human ruler suspended God’s regulation by showing affinity and sensitivity to man, that is, for a poor man. These are all reasons, calls to be more significant, through our entire legislation, but also to refer to the law on enforcement and security, let us deal with man and objectively, without the need to accentuate party differences, and let us deal with man and where there are serious reasons to protect this poor man from this law, or from the perpetrators who unfortunately proved not to have a lot of souls, and the law has enabled them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70619	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break. We'll continue work at 3 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70620	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs continue to work further. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70621	Thank you, Vice President. Allow me, above all, to thank the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for helping organise the Ceremony Academy for a grand jubilee. It is 150 years of the Alliance of Agricultural Engineers and Technicians, who is a legal follower of the Polish Economy Society founded in 1869, which was mainly founded by scientists who were not agronomic professions, except for one Dr. Djordja Radic, the first doctor of agrarian sciences, born from Zrenjanin, who received his doctorate at the Faculty of Philosophy in Vienna with work on the topic "The Views of Agriculture". I would like to thank the president for having approved a press conference with participants, Secretary General for the approval of the use of the small hall, the Education Group, which the participants of this jubilee meeting have learned about the sights of the National Assembly, the Information Service for Organisation and Security Service. Also, I would like to take the opportunity to inform the public that a traditional Serbian beekeeping fair was held at the Belgrade Fair on February 1st and 2nd. This is one of the posters that orders that we protect ourselves by saving bees, stressing that, above all, the problem of bee sustainability affects the black pesticide market in Serbia, then spraying at the time of flowering and dusting from the plane. However, there is also something on this poster that is questionable, which is that, for example, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy is a logo on the Latin. I don't know why the state authorities use Latinas to display deposits on these posters, as well as why a national organisation, which is otherwise very representative, such as the Croatian Organisations' Union, uses Latinas to prepare these posters. Thirdly, in the context of the debate before the public executions break, I say that citizens are very complaining about another painful phenomenon, which is that, first of all, public utility companies that have dozens of lawyers, pardon lawyers, are also engaged in their services by lawyers who, according to typical forms, file charges and thus increase debt costs by two or more times. The next thing I want to know, I've asked the President of the Republic three times to accept the war veteran's interview and he finally did it 20 days ago after 103 days, but since then there's been no new meeting, no proposal for any solutions they expect. Then, I would like to say that last night was the premiere of the documentary "The Weight of Chains Part Three", Boris Malagurski, in which two MPs of the National Assembly, counterpart Djukanovic and my little one also performed with their statements and interviews. What as a viewer scared me last night is the fact that there is also a "Wikilix" document, which says that a political activist has notified the US Embassy of Kosovo's readiness to divide. So I ask you to look at this, to see who suggested it, whether they are subject to any sanctions in this country, etc.? Next, I want to ask another question. My house was robbed before I became an MP, and that's not controversial. The procedure is under way and only now will it be the first hearing, on February 14th in Cačka, after so many years. But on November 1st, I was told by neighbors that there was a car in my backyard. They asked me if I sent someone to unload something, etc. I said I didn't, I called the police department in Chačka, asked them to send a patrol. I didn't introduce myself as an MP, but as a citizen. They very politely sent a patrol, after two hours I was informed that there was a vehicle there, but that they couldn't find it in the records of a registered address that registered that vehicle to the person who owned the vehicle. That vehicle spent the night in my backyard and only when I called in the morning, they said it was technically wrong, so he reached it from the street to my yard, which is absurd. It went out of the yard, and I didn't get a notice from whose vehicle it was. I was told to hire a lawyer to file a lawsuit, a pardon, a public prosecutor to get him to initiate the procedure, so I can just get him to do it. In November 12, there was a fifth session here, if I'm not mistaken, then I asked the Secretary of State from the Ministry of the Interior, is that possible? He says - I don't know, something like that, he said he'd let me know and I'd get information on whose vehicle it was. I didn't get that information from the M.O.P. until today. I don't know if it's in accordance with the regulations or not, but I don't see what the point of going out is, very polite, correct, correct police patrol in Chačka, and I can't get the information, not me, but any citizen, regarding his property and his property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70622	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what the previous speech had to do with lawyers and execution, but in terms of Kosovo and Metohija as someone who has been involved in politics for a long time, I am obliged to respond. In 2004, there was a March pogrom. Vojislav Kostunica, Slobodan Samardzic, Kovacevic and the whole team were in power and did not seriously frown on Kosovo Albanians, let alone try to protect Serbs. If protecting is the two mosques in Belgrade and Nis, and later embassies, then we have only shown that we are as bad as the Albanians, which is not true. So, the interest of the government at the time was to level with the burning of the sanctuary, so that they could justify their failure to respond. Also, in 2008, at the end of 2007, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, Borsko Stefanovic, was known to have promised that Jennifer Bras would not cross the US red lines if Boris Tadic was elected president of the Republic. In this connection, they asked that America influence Kosovo Albanians to declare independence only after Tadic's election as president of the Republic. Otherwise, it will reduce his chance to defeat Tomislav Nikolic. The victory over Tomislav Nikolic to DSS and DS was more important than Kosovo and Metohija. An MP who was on the DSS list suddenly worried about the division of Kosovo and Metohija, and with that, I must inform our viewers that Slobodan Samardzic, right Mr Martinovic, went to Djilas's rally, and that was Kostunica's minister, I think, for Kosovo and Metohija, and I appreciate that he has joined those forces that for the sake of the election, Tadic sacrificed our southern province. Today's government is doing everything to repair the almost impossible position of our southern province. With that in mind, 17 confessions were withdrawn, 17 states withdrew international recognition, which occurred during the former government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70624	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70625	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I start talking about today's agenda on the authentic interpretation of the Law on Implementation and Security, I must strongly condemn what happened in Gornji Milanovac, when SNS activist Janko Langura was brutally beaten. Three faces beat him up brutally and threatened him with words-- an advanced idiot, we'll kill your whole family. Otherwise, you should know that Janko Langura is a man who bravely opposed Bosca Obradovic when he, as usual, wanted to violently enter SO Gornja Milanovac, and what he does not know is that Janko Langura was due to testify in the case of Dragan Gilas against MP Mark Parezanovic, and in light of the information Marko made that Dragan Gilas offered the committees not to attend the meetings of the Assembly in order to bring down power in Čačka, he offered certain money. I'm the lawyer for Mark Parezanovic in that case and what I can remember is that when we proposed Janko Langur as a witness, that Dragan Gilas had just said that he would come to see who your witnesses were, whatever that meant. Also, Langura told us that after we proposed him as a witness, he received anonymous calls and harassment. I will certainly leave it to the citizens of Serbia to assess whether Dragan Gilas has direct or indirect ties to what happened to Janko Langura, but I don't think the citizens can forget that Dragan Gilas was directly behind what was going on in RTS when people violently entered with motor saws, that he was directly or indirectly behind that violent attempt at breaking into the Assembly and that he was in fact supporting the wearing of a gallows in the Terrace, which we know he has. I call upon the authorities to find the perpetrators of this attack on Janka Langura and to protect Janka Langura in every way possible, because he is an honest and honest man. As far as this authentic interpretation is concerned, I absolutely welcome the adoption of this authentic interpretation, as a lawyer, and I'm sure my fellow lawyers support this, because we're going to literally remove this legal uncertainty that existed, because it's this particular article 48. The law on enforcement and security has not been quite clear about what it means to be certified, so it is interpreted in such a way that this certified power of attorney must be certified by the notaries. In this way, this interpretation will help to ensure that this power of attorney does not have to be verified by notaries, thus not only increasing legal certainty, harmonize the law on enforcement and security with the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, but also reducing the costs of the procedure, since the parties will no longer have to pay public notes to the over. Therefore, I support this authentic interpretation and invite all MPs to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70626	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very interesting that you put this item on the agenda as the only one, and I think it's the best indicator of how strong individual lobbys in Serbia are, of course, lawyer lobbys. You obviously didn't forget what it was like when your lawyers striked, practically, during a longer period of time when they blocked the entire judiciary in Serbia. For example, you do not care about the fact that wartime wartime disableds and war veterans are practically, last winters, in Pioneer Park, across the street from this hall where you sit, those who are most responsible for Serbia's defence, those who have lost body parts, those who risked their lives are not important enough and have not come to the agenda. Why is that? Is it because they don't block the streets, as taxi drivers in Belgrade have been doing for days and weeks, so they deserve the subsidies that Alexander Vukic promised them? However, when someone is protesting politely, protesting with dignity, when they do not want the welfare, when they do not want to be humiliated, you are both blind and deaf. We've heard here from previous speakers that it's very important that the legal profession be independent, so, well, it should be independent of giving this power of attorney, and above all, I think that's where the independence went when they became independent of VAT and fiscal cash. This shows how strong the lawyer lobby is in Serbia, and how quickly a change of law can occur when something is important to them, that is, in this case, the authentic interpretation of a member of the law. He told this Mr. Nejko Jovanovic that he should probably trust lawyers, because, he says, on the one hand, it is, and on the other hand, there is the responsibility of a lawyer. I'd like him to give concrete information as to how many lawyers it was not in the previous year, but in the previous 20 or 30 or 50 years, let him count on the fingers of one hand, to hear how many lawyers were responsible for the unconscious work, for the damage they've done to their clients? The only thing that can be measured by lawyers may be with doctors, because as there is no doctor who has been convicted of poor work and unwitting treatment, there are no lawyers who are convicted of unwitting work. He says, for example, the same speaker that the party is not obliged to bear the burden of costs and to pay compensation for the overa for the non-small notaries. So, when it comes to lawyers, then that compensation should be abolished, but when it comes to citizens of Serbia, who will still be obliged to pay huge, nothing justified, fees from the notaries, then that's fine. Let's see how you make this, let's say, rank that matters who it doesn't matter to. Sometimes the perpetrators are good, sometimes they're not good. Sometimes notaries are good, sometimes they're not good. Every lawyer knows that while it was done in the courts, it was ten times and twenty times as cheap. Then you admitted that as a government and as a regime you were unable to provide citizens with a quality service, to ensure that the process of judicial execution works according to the law and then you gave it to privates. They gave the privates public authority, not for them to work in the interest of the citizens, but for them to become enormously rich. Look at their financial records, look at the properties they're buying. While Serbia's poorest citizens are scrambling in debt, they barely make ends meet, these people are enormously rich from day to day. You have recently changed and supplemented the law, which I think is the most responsible SRS parliamentary group precisely because we persistently criticise public executioners, for two-thirds reduced the compensation that public executioners charge to those who reach, to say, in the process of tearing their skin out. You were talking about how, unlike those yellow thieves who passed that law, when the bailiffs were practically unprofessional, you gave them some courses to finish, so that when they tear the skin off the back of the citizens, they do it very professionally and that expertise is, unfortunately, seen. By reducing compensation to public contractors by two-thirds, not 10 or 15%, you have admitted how unreasonable they were, how unwarranted they were, and what a robbery Serbian citizens were. Now let me ask you how many public contractors have given up their work after the cut? How many of them did they say -- no more, we're not worth doing for a third of the fees? How much? It is none, and it tells you that they still live well, that these compensations are still huge, that they are still unwarranted and that they continue to rob Serbian citizens, but there is another more interesting issue there. For these citizens who have paid up to almost that enormous full amount of compensation, how do you plan to compensate them? You admitted that the compensation was huge, that they were unwarranted. When and how do you plan to damage these people and how long will Serbia be ruled by those who can influence the top of the regime? We heard of tycoons a perfect definition of an economic expert from the SNS, who says -- they're not tycoons ordinary criminals, they're criminals connected to the top of the government, and that's why they can't arrest the tycoons and you're absolutely right, but the problem is that these tycoons are connected to the top of your government and that's why the tycoons don't respond, which is why tycoons can't be arrested. You're talking about the responsibility of a lawyer, and this is a state where neither the ministers respond. This is a state where no one answers, especially those at the top of that criminal pyramid. Here's today's new arrests at the Railways. After the arrest of that director, Miroljub Jevtic, who was a close associate and adviser to Zorana Mihajlovic, whom she personally chose and placed in place where he robbed Serbian citizens, and was recommended to him by destroying previous companies in which he worked. Here, today the State Secretary, Miodrag Poledica, is also called another phenomenal SNS solution and Zorana Mihajlovic. Who's going to answer for that? You know, we expect Zorana Mihajlovic to bear moral responsibility, we should assume that she has some sense of morality, for a person who receives money, as she says, not from the state, it would be a shame, and she is not ashamed to spend huge money, to enjoy luxury, to spend more than a million dinars from the ministry's underwear card or tens of thousands of euros on women's purses, but it is a shame to receive a salary as vice president of the government or as minister. She says she's honorable, not receiving money from Serbian citizens, but from Mitsa Megatrend. He receives "Megatrend", where they say the government has fallen apart for months of not receiving salaries, but it still doesn't bother Zorani Mihajlovic spending a lot of money on a day-to-day basis. Now I ask you if and when Zorana Mihajlovic will answer? When it comes to her, are we going back to that story that's not good for judges and not good for prosecutors? Your time's up, your time's up. They were chosen by the yellow class, so they let the thieves go or they don't arrest the thieves you'd like them to be arrested for, and a little bit, they're good again, especially when you choose them and you promote them. Does this mean that we should expect in the next period maybe we have private judges, that we have private prosecutors, because when you face the problem, you instead of solving it, you bypass it? That's what happened to these public executioners. Instead of fixing the system to work properly, you solved it by letting your privates do it. We've heard a little bit, five billion dinars, and over five billion have been incased in just six months. Imagine how much money that is? So it is not true that there is no money in Serbia. It's not true that there are no possibilities. The problem is second, Serbia is a country of injustice. Serbia is a country in which it pleases those who are the most powerful. Serbia is a country in which it pleases those closest to the authorities. Serbia is a country where citizens' problems are not solved, but tends to some megalomanic projects to remain remembered in history. As Gilas built a bridge that cost hundreds of millions of euros, although it could have been incomparably cheaper, and I guess it wouldn't have been so nice, so you're making a billion-and-a-half dinar market, so you're making and doing a lot of other projects for which there's simply no justification. I was really, to say, negatively surprised that you were at the previous session when I spoke about it, defending the market of a billion and a half dinars and praising it as one of the greatest ranges of your regime. So, when did the yellow ones make a billion-and-a-half dinar market? No, but there are these former leaders, former officials of the Democratic Party, to show that what they failed to accomplish in the golden time of the DOS regime can come true in the golden time and as you say the golden age of the SNS regime. The annual budget of Sverliga is 450 million dinars, and a billion and a half for the Palillan Market. A billion and 100 million budgets for Prepolje annually, a billion and a half for the market. Seven hundred fifty million dinars for the Mladen Man budget a year, a billion and a half for the market. And you instead of keeping your mouth shut, you're defending it. It shows how immature you are in this political scene and how much you don't understand anything. While people have no basic living needs provided, while children are hungry, look how many kids go without breakfast to school, to primary school, according to your research, and you say in that situation -- we have extra money, we don't know what we're going to do with it, we're going to spend it on the market. We've solved all the other problems in the state, and we still have to bring in an authentic interpretation that someone doesn't have to go to the notary to pay the lawyer, or to pay the notary to verify the power of attorney. Are these burning problems in the state of Serbia, in your opinion? Is there anything more important than the Palill market that cost a billion and a half dinar? Is there? Here are your colleagues saying it might be your solution to the coronary virus. You had an expert you sent to China, he noticed a problem there in time, came back and said, "Build the market." So these are your economic experts. Once again, gentlemen, I remind you that wartime wartime disableds and war veterans have been expressing their protest for more than four months, peacefully, with dignity, with honor and honesty because Serbia as a state has not given them credit for the work they have done for the same state, those who have defended it, those who have bled, who have lost their lives, who have lost parts of their bodies, and see what you are discussing?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70628	Support the list for the replicas. People's MP, Nejko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70629	I thank you, Chairman. So listening to this far-reaching populist and demagogue story that my predecessor here has said so, Serbian citizens would come to the conclusion that he is really fighting for their rights. On the contrary, Serbian citizens must understand that this is not a fight for their rights, this is a fight for cheap political points, this is a battle for censorship even if it goes down, the question is whether they can make it happen, I mean my predecessor and the party it represents. The assault on law enforcement in the way my predecessor did is once again a sort of classic demagogy considering that it was he himself who was both part of the lawyerry and part of the judicial system. Well, Your Honor, if it's so wonderful in law enforcement, here you go back to law school to get big incomes that you're so shamelessly suggesting, you get rich if you want to get rich and on the condition that you have dignity as a basic condition so you can be a lawyer. But what Serbian citizens should be far more interested in, should be interested in what my predecessor talked about for 30 seconds, and 15 minutes spent on another story, 30 seconds talking about authentic interpretation, and 15 minutes spent on demagogy asking war veterans to vote for his party. I don't mind, so be it, and let me just have a few more sentences. I'm a lawyer when I enter this assembly and get out of it. I don't know about my predecessor. What is important is that Serbian citizens know that the lawyer only reacted when she was threatened. Ten thousand and 200 lawyers exist in Serbia. Of those 10,000 and 200 lawyers, a large number of lawyers do not have the conditions my predecessor speaks of, is fighting for existence and is looking for a place to affirm their profession and profession. Lawyership, as a brand, is unique and will remain unique and will absolutely never allow either state, nor influence in the way my predecessor tried to direct and this alleged revolt of citizens towards law enforcement. Lawyership is an honorable profession. Speaking of the responsibility of lawyers, unlike other chambers, esnafic chambers, this is exactly the Bar Association of Lawyers leading a number of cases against lawyers who have sinned both on the law and on the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers. A large number of them have been sanctioned. Some have been excluded from the bar, not a small number, and the fact that the judiciary has not responded by processing, I leave it to those who carry out the judicial functions of that job, which means sanctioning all those who have acted unlawfully, that is, against the law, even if they were former lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70630	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70631	Now, you've seen a little bit of exposure to Nemanje Sarovic, what it looks like to be a complete confusion when someone is trying to post-poo, and all by force, something is coming up to transfer Alexander Vukic, SNS, the parliamentary majority or the Serbian government, as they know and can, and as a rule, they don't know much, and even worse. Total confusion. They say: "The old state today is not old enough to show respect for the people who participated in the defence of the country. That's what someone who, of course, rarely comes to the National Assembly to hear when we talk and talk and show. Here, you see, this is how this country treats these people today. This is what a military monument looks like about the 20th anniversary of the heroic defense of the state in 1999. This was signed by Aleksandar Vukic, who looks just like a medal, and this year it is awarded to all the people who participated in that defense in 1999. It's a living example of how the state treats these people today. That's what someone says, and that's why he's most confused himself, who, without shame or shame, is sitting in power today with those who have always been ashamed of themselves... Milorad Mircic: Bastach. That's right, your Bastache and your Gilas, I think of them. To your Bastac and your Gilas and your Wolf Jeremiah and the others you sit with and spend your people's money on the Old Town, who were ashamed of all the people who defended this country, who underestimated them, they did nothing. In 2009, when it was 10 years from the defense of the country, they didn't remember anyone. On the contrary, these people were expelled, these people were interrupted by working relationships, and they looked only at how to get rid of them after and after, they didn't even hide it. Now, as you share those values with them and sit together, you ask us a question. It's that level of demagogy. Well, I don't know if I've heard it recently, except maybe from MP Ševarlic today, who, as far as I can see, can't decide for a complete Kosovo anymore independently or go back to Sanda Raskovic Iskovic and Samardzic's positions, that they want to just trade and cheeses, so make it 10, 20, 30% not important, just that their authority doesn't endanger us or something else. While you're so well confused, let me tell you something, it's 3%, and when we get to 3% of the censorship, for you a thought noun. But just keep it up, the more you do, the more people you remind how much better things are today, different and much more dignity for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70632	The People's MP, Milija Miletic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70633	Thank you. Here, normally, I'd take it myself after I heard about Srlig. My dear colleagues, I am not ashamed of where I come from or come from Srlig, 450 million budget is a budget for our municipality for territory near 500 square kilometers. We fight it, we fight it, we fight it, we do it the best we can. It is when someone says that a billion and 500 thousand dinars were given to build a market, it's a big number. That's the figure we need to ask ourselves in this situation where we're all small municipalities in southeast Serbia, in the middle, that's three, four budgets. But about that someone will say, that's what the citizens of the city hall of Palilu say, about what was done there, there's someone who's given the warrant, who's looking for supplies and all that stuff. It is certainly not our President Alexander Vukic, who is fighting for all of us, in every place to invest funds. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Serbian Government can blame it. There's someone who runs that town hall, there's someone who makes decisions, there's someone who'll answer for it. Otherwise, I can only say that, or it's a mall now, and I wasn't there to tell you honestly, it's more important to me where I live, and it's more important for me to invest 150, 200 thousand dinars, to do something for the kids, to do something for the school, to do something in a village. The territory where I come from is a great territory, close to the old mountain, beauty, all in one place. Therefore, I will also advocate in the coming period that a large number of such municipalities, such as my municipality, have the opportunity to get funds to build a market. But it's very important what that market has to do, what it's supposed to sell, is it going to be from Srlig, the White Palanca, Gage's Han, or is it going to be from Meroshina or is it going to be from China or is it going to be from Spain? We have to fight to keep our products on those markets. I think that we should invest much more in the middle of where I come from, southeastern Serbia, healthy environment, healthy food, and that we can live there, that people from Palilula, Vračar, come to us, buy houses in some villages so that they can live, have fresh air, not breathe smog. So, the bad environment is where there's a lot of people, where the air is polluted. We must advocate that where there is a large number, to come to these environments, to come to Srlig, to come to the White Palanco, to work there with us, to have people who have graduated from colleges, logos, psychologists, educators, where we are missing and to come there to us and normal, jobs, health, food, that's what we need. Otherwise, I am not against the fact that the city of Belgrade, as the largest city, has two million people, has funds for its own needs, for its city municipalities. It is much more important to me that in the village of Palilula, which is the same as Palilula, it is in Srlig, in that village that we can make our way, to bring that village closer to the municipality of Književec and normally, to work for small areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70634	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70635	Chairman, I've been looking for you as an authorized proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70636	Well, then you'll have to, colleague Komlenski, wait for the circle of replicas to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70637	Well, I'm not sure, but I'll take it as a replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70638	I'm sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70639	You're sure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70641	Come on, when you're safe, then I'll check out.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70642	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70643	It didn't seem safe to me, but you wait, Mr. Komlensky. I wouldn't mind if you'd replicated me. So where are these three, there could have been three more, four, no matter what. On the other hand, you from the ruling coalition are replicating three and a half, four and a half minutes, and you're allowing us two. This was a showcase exercise, what it looks like when a little bit of a chubby nest is grown. You see how they're all full of food, how they perform harshly, how righteous they are. I would have thought Mr. Nejo Jovanovic would have reacted so much when they talked about how his party had passed laws along with yellow thieves before 2012. Then there's no demagogy, then there's no food, no anger, then shut up. You have a political choice when you will answer, and when you do not respond and you think that you can convince some Serbian citizens in this way. Mr Miletic says he is not angry that in Belgrade he is making a billion and a half dinar for one market, and the annual budget in Svrlig 450 million. Yes, it is. But is this in line with the government's declared policy on the even development of all parts of Serbia? So, how will people stay in Srlig if more than three years of budgets are spent on the market in Belgrade, and the first citizens of Belgrade do not benefit from it? So 60% of Belgrade citizens still have no sewers, no gas pipeline, no heat pipeline, no available healthcare. Now, that's the problem. So you're essentially and in principle complaining about who knows how many times for our coalition partners. So, are we in a coalition with Suleiman Ugljanin? Are we in a coalition with Hashim Thaci? Are we with Ramush Haradinaj? Are we with Kurti? With all your coalition partners bleeding their hands not to their elbows, but to their shoulders. Don't talk about coalition partners. You should be ashamed of yourself. With the greatest Serbian enemies and murderers, you've made coalitions and you say it's in the interest of the Serbian citizens. Is it better for people in Kosovo and Metohija now than four or eight years ago? It's not. Secondly, Gilas was elected president of the basketball alliance, not me, and Gilas had previously funded your party and your campaign, not the SRS. He is the one who, along with Miki Rakic, together with Boris Tadic, has assured you that the stolen mandates, in accordance with the constitution, will not be returned to the SRS. Here, I see, now Mr. Martinovic is saying something. He's one of the biggest heroes in the SNS. I have to commend how honorable he is, how much he has feelings and morals and how he's willing to attack someone who's his political opponent, but first of all, when he's not here. Shut up when he gets a mouse on his head, shut up when someone who's reasoned points to something he's doing, but when he notices there's no one who can answer him... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70644	Comrade Sarovic, I must draw your attention that the right to the replica does not mean that you can insult all MPs in the hall. Nemanja Sarovic: Who have I offended? I now draw your attention that when you replicate, refrain from this insolence. Nemanja Sarovic: And who have I offended? If you can't, believe me, there are mechanisms in the Rules of Procedure that can make you do it. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70645	It's a business thing. Mr. Arsic, you've violated article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. If you're talking about insolence and you're talking about some insults, who am I insulting, the one I told falsely? I didn't insult anyone. I commended Aleksandar Martinovic for his courage to attack political opponents when they are not there. He said it was a bright example... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70646	Comrade Sarovic, I really ask that your discussions, even through the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, bring order. At no time did I violate the provisions of Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare that in the day of the vote? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70647	Here you go, Mr. Arsic. What do you want or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70648	Do you want the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70649	So, I'm not on the quiz, Mr. Arsic. This is the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70650	I give you a warning, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70651	Excellent, thank you, Mr. Arsic. It's your picture and opportunity, say them freely. You're the one who's breaking the Rules of Procedure. This is what someone's looking at, and you'll be ashamed of what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70652	I give you a second warning, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70653	Thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70654	Please answer me yes or no.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70655	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, for showing that you can't politically... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70656	I take away your word from you, colleague Sarovic. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70657	I can't answer Nemanja Sarovic, the man who cursed my dead father upstairs from the gallery while I was holding a press conference. He says we're in a coalition with war criminals. His president urged the Serb people in KIM to vote with the Serb list. Are you listening to what the party president is telling you? I can't tell Nemanja Sarovic this or that. Who is Nemanja Sarovic? Well, I've already said it a hundred times. A politically barren man, was and remained, and while I was in the SRS, so he knows Mircic. Who brought the votes of the SRS. We from Vojvodina, Natasa Jovanovic from Šumadija. (President: Which member? ) Nemanja Sarovic, however much money you give, is unable to transfer one, two percent to Belgrade and he has found himself teaching someone how to conduct politics and how someone must not answer his Majesty. Nemanja Sarovic does not represent absolutely any political factor in Serbia. The only thing he knows is that he shows up in the Rules of Procedure, that he personally insults you and loves you very much. He loves money very much, Gilas's money, and if he were wondering the SRS would be part of the Alliance for Serbia. As for Marko Bastac, you who are so narrated over the fate of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro and who are drilling into heroic breasts, Mr Sarovic, when it comes to defending Serbian sanctity in Montenegro, so that Marko Bastac is the extended hand of all Montenegrin mob clans here in Belgrade. Let's forget about the bag on the head, forget about taking money to issue construction permits where the buildings can't be built, forget about the 13,000 euros he brought to the Belgrade airport, says, as a help to a friend of his, you may be the friend he carried 13,000 euros to, but all to forget, Marko Bastac is today a direct link between Montenegro's regime and Montenegrin mobsters here in Belgrade, and that's the living truth and Serbian citizens need to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70658	You did not specify the provision of the Rules of Procedure which you consider to have violated, so in accordance with Article 133, paragraph 8, the time of your presentation will be taken from the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70659	Mr Arsic, you are required to conduct the sessions in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, and that is said by Article 27. The way you run these sessions is the best mirror of your coalition. You today and all these previous days, months and years, here you are eight years in power, showing how powerful you are, showing how honorable you are, showing how much you understand parliamentary democracy and how much you understand what fair and correct political struggle means. No one has ever insulted you this way, any of you. Instead of trying to make a minimum consensus in Serbia on any issue, on any political issue, even the tiniest, all you do, all your regime does is satanize political opponents. You're telling someone that he's politically barren... (President: What does it matter, colleague Sarovic, has to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Arsic, you may not have listened to the previous speaker and may not have heard what he said... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70660	Comrade Sarovic, I've heard perfectly what's said. You didn't specify... Nemanja Sarovic: What? What didn't I say? ) The right to replica has a National MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70661	She tells who is there, who is not there, Nemanja Sarovic serves only because he hopes that we will notice that he is there, right, because it happens often enough that we have to notice because he does not understand. It's an honor to have the strength and courage to appear in the congregation once and this month. How confusing it is and how much of a fight it is with itself is completely clear based on everything that's been said here. People say they are against enormous wealth, say they are against some tycoons, even criticising Dragan Gilas for that robbery he made on the bridge. Yes, he did, and he's sitting down today with that same man in the Old Town coalition. Do they split the money from the bridge? What are they doing there? Do they mind tycoons and enormous wealth? Great. Did you remember to ask that Dragan Gilas of yours or, if he's busy these days, ask that Bastac of yours that you hang out with there every day around Old Town, that smuggler who puts people's bags on their heads, which is a recipe for this famously successful wealth to become a multimillionaire, that 619 million euros bet on the account of his companies during the government, during politics on the most responsible functions, and precisely thanks to politics? For example, examine what links there are between this type of wealth and direct links to the criminal clans that are running around Belgrade, which Aleksandar Martinovic has just pointed out. These are all the things you can, as you say, within the family circle to clarify, to ask these closest associates and faithful coalition partners how it goes. That would be nice if you could explain. I was convinced that people who are at the level of those stories by Marinika Tepic, poor children faint from hunger, are no longer in this room after they have decided to move to the restaurant "never enough to fill and worry about hunger" and at the register. But we have their exhibits here, too. Nemanja Sarovic now tells the stories of Marinika Tepic – poor children faint from hunger, just as Kenna told stories or the story of Boško Obradovic that there is some terrible dictatorship here and no one will find a minimum of some consensus. You who have found your consensus with tycoons and thieves great there in the Old Town, cherish this consensus, do not worry about democracy in Serbia, do not try to play Bosko Obradovic in his absence, when we are present, who is away, because if you knew everything and that you are instead of him, and that is obviously your biggest wish, now with the skirts of Đilasa in the Alliance for Serbia, that you be Bosko Obradovic instead of Bosko Obradovic, you would still have those 3% that we will make as a censors as a mental noun. Mr. Risticevic, your proposal to change it down even less than 2%, 1%, we can discuss it, but you know what, to them it's big as a house.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70662	Comrade Sarovic, your word has been taken from you, you have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure either. Nemanja Sarovic throws. I've made a little review and I'm making it right now. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70663	I thank you, Chairman. Neither as a lawyer nor as a national MP, I will not allow any comments on the lawyer to come down to the level of banality, triviality and groundliness, even the insults made by my colleague Nemanje Sarovic. Again, law is an honorable and honest profession, and today, instead of talking about the authentic interpretation of a provision, one member of the Law on Implementation and Security, we agree to accept something that is both bold and shameless of colleagues, Nemanje Sarovic, when commenting on lawyers and lawyers. The lawyer's profession cannot be devalued in any way in the way that Nemanja Sarovic does. In the very authentic interpretation we've been pointing out and I'm going to repeat that - this authentic interpretation is not in the interest of an individual's lawyer and lawyer, this is in the interest of a law profession, which has to be done for the benefit of citizens, as a beneficiary of legal services, as clients, as a party. Compared to some other layers of the population and some other structures, it's really very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, In a concrete case, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the right to be protected just systematically, precisely by law, in a way that allows them not to suffer any burdens, no certified powers, no inconveniences, but to build a relationship of trust with a doctor, as they build it with a lawyer. However, it is obvious that there are those in this congregation who, and what is good for the citizens, do not want to accept it that way, but simply by pulsism, but only by demagogue try to gain something that is obviously utopian. Utopia is an electoral censorship. Lawyership stays the way it is. And those who have sinned against the law in law enforcement will always answer and answer. And that's why the lawyer is different from the others. And what was already asked as a political question that I didn't think I should answer, but I am obliged as a member and a MP in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia to point out, before 2012 and long before that, the SPS had remained a state-of-the-art party. Unlike other parties, the SPS is in continuity in parliament and has never been out of parliamentary work. And let Nemanja Sarovic consider where he and his party are throughout the period of parliamentary action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70664	Right on line, MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70665	Thank you. Here, I would say the same thing to Mr. Sarovic -- it's normal for me to be angry about why a billion and 500 thousand dinars have been made that market. I'm angry, and I wish it was done with us in Srlig. But on the other hand, I can say a few things that matter to all of us. In Svrljig, according to Književec, according to the Old Mountain, a complete road was made, close to 20 km, completely done, which was made from the state, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. A road where tomorrow anyone who wants to come from Belgrade, Palilula, Vrakar, can come, and a large number of people are coming there, they're going to the Old Mountain. It's a great pleasure for you to come along, to go to the Old Mountain, to visit the beauty of our neighborhood, to see how the road is. The road is done as if you were in Switzerland. That's Serbia, that's Srlig, that's the area of Srlig. It's a railroad. It's a big investment for our end. The railway is made from Nis via Svrljig towards Književec, a railroad that will be the veins of the housewives for the development of the economy, for the development of agriculture, for all that has not been done before. I spoke here several times in the Assembly in what state this railway was, which during the term of the previous government, in 2007, were then yellow or others, I don't know which were exactly in power, then the railway was declared inadequate, and that railroad was to be shut down, that there was no more going, no more train. Here, this railroad is now being built, it's being made, and that railroad is going to be something very important to us. There will be tourism facilities, except for the economy. The beauty of our neighborhood, the Svreliga, the White Palanka, Gage's Han, that's something only on the spot can anyone see. Otherwise, I would always prefer it, and I want it to be more invested and created in Srlig, in our municipalities of Southeastern Serbia, not Belgrade. Really, I'm honest with you. I love my place, I love my village, I love my end. I'm coming to Belgrade because there's the Assembly, by the way, I love my ending. I'm not against Belgrade, I'm not against New Sad, I'm not against Subotica, I love every inch of our country, but I prefer my village and I prefer my Srlig and I prefer Nis, where the centre of Southeast Serbia is.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70666	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mention any names in my discussion. However, I've experienced a replica, I don't know on what basis? I didn't mention anyone, but that's why I'm gonna say it now. One of the current vice-presidents of the government and the minister is tanging in the film. I'm asking you to take a look. It's Nebojsa Stefanovic. (Vladimir Orlic: What is tanging? ) It is said that, according to Wikilix, he transferred the offer to the US Embassy to divide Kosovo. (Vladimir Orlic: When? ) I don't know, I couldn't see on the screen which document, from which date, etc. As a spokesman for the SNS, check it out. I didn't mean to bring it up on purpose, so we wouldn't get a replica. But I think it's good to check for you and also for Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70668	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70669	Fantastic, what can I tell you? I heard someone say something or show it somewhere, but I didn't see it well when, who and when it was -- well, that's the level of all the stories on that subject. And did you see that, Mr. Chevarlich? These people you went out with, what did they do in Kosovo and Metohija? Did you see that? You didn't need a screen to get closer to him. What kind of politics did they run? Did you conclude that something clever was happening there because of those people in 2004 when the people died? Or did you miss noticing their shameful behavior in 2008? Here, this Wikiliks mentions today and Mr. Risticevic. That same Wikilix says -- the people with whom you went out to the elections, with whom you shared values to the extent that you put your name with them and became a national MP, asked the US Embassy not to declare independence until the elections in Serbia, that the results do not endanger them and that they can become MPs again, ministers again, etc. After that, the day, two after the election, they didn't care. They could do whatever they wanted. They told the U.S. Embassy - then you're welcome to declare, we won't interfere. Does that ring a bell? Do you know, for example, why he resigned from his time, Mr. Cohen, who was in charge of running these negotiations? Do you know or have you heard? You don't need Wikilix for that. For that, you just need to read the daily newspaper, look at the news from that period, official state information, that man could not believe with his eyes and ears when he listened to European officials testifying that Boris Tadic's cabinet, Vuk Jeremic himself, asked Tadic for the joint implementation of Ahtisaari's plan. You are aware that this plan, this Ahtisaari plan, implies independence, so-called independence. Kosovo? This was done by the state, by these people on behalf of the state to our shame, to our misfortune, openly and publicly. They talked about it and agreed with all kinds of officials from various countries, which Europeans, both worldly and these people, shared views, accepted their results as their own to become a national MP. Do you need a movie, a projection, or to sit a little closer to seeing it and understanding it? After all, what kind of policy is it, you explain to us, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, these remains of DS resolutions, which today wants the state to crash again, which wants to burn down the Assembly again, to take from here what it pleases to have them in power. Do you represent these people politically today or are you just close to them? Now, explain to us, because of them, a man of honor can't hear a single word. What do you propose to a KIM genius after you've destroyed everything thoroughly and thoroughly ruined it, or maybe it's true they can't say anything because they have nothing to say? They were never interested in Kosovo, never in Metohija, never in the Serbian people wherever they lived. They know what they were only interested in, only money, only power and only power. Do you know anything more than that on the subject, here's to share with us?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70670	Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević. (Milorad Mircic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70671	I'm advertising Article 109. Mr. Chairman, you gave notice to SRS MP Nemanja Sarovic, and you have no grounds under Article 109. Not on any basis under Article 109. Nemanja Sarovic did not deserve you to give him two warnings. He did not take offense and treat his colleagues, he conducted a debate. Whether you like it or not – that's another question now. You are personally animosity to Nemanja Sarovic, and you are here in the Assembly. It's very bad... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70672	My colleague Mircic... (Milorad Mircic: We are not colleagues. )......................................................................................................... Not only did I comply with the provisions of Article 109. Milorad Mircic: We were not, nor shall we be. )......................................................................................................... but also on the basis of Articles 103, paragraphs 7 and 107, would you like the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? Milorad Mircic throws. ) Right to the replica National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Orlic, everything I've brought out in the Vikilix Depecs, I stand behind it. So, at the end of 2007, Borko Stefanovic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, were very happy to stay at the US Embassy at Jennifer Bras. If I recall correctly, they expressed their dissatisfaction with the Ambassador of Russia, Konuzin, on that occasion. So Dragan Djilas presented himself as a great fighter against Russian influence, Borko Stefanovic asked that the Americans draw attention to the Albanians that, due to the victory of Boris Tadic, they would not declare independence of the wild state of Kosovo until Boris Tadic was re-elected, which they did. So, Boris Tadic took an oath on February 14th, as far as I know, and on February 17th, Kosovo Albanians declared independence with some of them. So, it was the time of the DSS and DS authorities, and on their list was Mr. Ševarlic, regardless of what he could also see these "Vikilixa" dispatches. What I'm trying to say is that we don't get a little wrong about the market in Palilla. There's a lot of negatively said here, because of a market that takes up 12,000 squares. It is very important to farmers for the sale of agricultural products, above all on unfavourable times, and since it is a closed area, you are certainly in Belgrade, Mr. Chairman, you know that the square of closed space reaches thousands of euros. There are about 70 bars, 50 gigs, malls, etc., cooling devices, windows, etc. All this suggests that this investment, which was a billion or 12m euros, is certainly not doped at 12,000 squares, and to the farmers and what it means, because without markets, without sales, you will find it difficult to place your products. Those who advocate that farmers have a known buyer should certainly not speak so negatively of markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70674	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70675	Thank you very much. So I didn't mention any names. Secondly, what happened before I joined the assembly, I really don't know, and I don't have to follow that. I wasn't involved in politics, but the only thing I know for sure is that by then, including those elections in 2012, Serbs in KIM were able to participate in the elections. I ask the question – will the Serbs in KIM be able to participate in these elections now to be called? (Alexander Martinovic: Well, of course. Is that okay? Great, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70676	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70677	Mr. Chevarly, I don't really know how to understand you right now. It is not known to you that as long as you sat in the same parliamentary group until yesterday, that is to say, on the list from which the parliamentary groups formed, among which were MPs living in KIM territory, participated in the elections, some people voted there for them and for others who ran in our elections and then sat here most normally, represented someone. Now you wonder and wonder if it's possible? I don't know who they represent today, you're probably right to say that many of them don't have two votes behind them. You're probably right, but these people are living proof of the lies they've been making and the lies you've shared with them, that there's no right for our people to vote on KIM, that he couldn't or couldn't. How? There. These people are proof that this has nothing to do with anything. Since we have already touched on our people's questions at KIM and the election, have you, perhaps, followed the vote of our people on KIM, who is supported by our people there? For the Serbian List, if you may have missed it to notice, which is politically supported by Aleksandar Vukic, SNS, and everyone else, and, watch out now, not only by the parliamentary majority, but also by the opposition in Serbia who are aware of people, understand how important it is to have a common, unique, complex policy on KIM just to protect our people's interest there. It seemed to me that 98% of our countrymen on KIM voted for that list. That's the answer to your question -- how these people are experiencing questions about who's protecting them, how these people understand who's on their side, how these people understand who's theirs, not just the protector, but the man who's capable of choosing what's right for their interests. Of course, Alexander Vukic, of course, all of us who followed that policy, advocated and supported the Serb list, among other things. Did you know they weren't all on that same side? Do you know that there were also those who went against the Serb List, against the people's unity at KIM, against the authentic representation of our political views, but worked to somehow, synergian, chicken, scratch somewhere for a term, if at all possible, to sell our national interests, to sell our people there, to make peace with all those who do not think well in Pristina, and you know how many there are. Those who were on the other side are the ones with whom you participated in the 2016 elections for our parliament here. That's Dragan Djilas, that's Vuk Jeremic, that's Rada Trajkovic, that's the one Rasic says in liquid Albanian -- I'm a Kosovar, please vote for me. Do you know how many votes they got? That was so funny, we read that data here, from place to place where Serbs voted, somewhere zero, mostly zero, somewhere one vote, about two. You know when someone misss the number by mistake and accidentally circle someone they didn't want to round up. Of course, they didn't win a single term, but that was literally when everything was summed up at the level of statistical error. It is the best possible answer for you, Mr. Chevarlic, to what the Serbs think of KIM, who works for them, who protects them, who is able to fight for them. Therefore, these people also vote, 90 per cent and plus per cent for Alexander Vukic, the SNS and the policy conducted by the Serbian government, which is defended and represented by the parliamentary majority. Those with whom you went to the elections, so much so that you are right when you say Mrs. Jovanovic, you can only extend your hands and say – so no one votes for them anymore, no one represents them anymore. Now just tell us at the very end, did we understand who is here for the Serb people in KIM fighting and who is not only standing here, but is able to win for them on a difficult ground, on the ground where everyone is against us, however well.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70678	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70679	The most tragic thing is to discuss who is more protecting Serbs in KIM, instead of discussing that we must all stop from Serbs to KIM and beyond the unique territory of the Republic of Serbia, including the province of KIM in Serbia. So any speech from any representative from the former or this regime on the division of KIM is a boomerang effect for the Republic of Serbia. I hope it is clear to the citizens, if it is not clear to the MPs in this House. I've never stood for any other concept. As far as the election is concerned, please, we can talk differently. Let's form a non-party group and see how many non-party groups get votes in the next election and show legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70680	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70681	Two things, Mr. Chevarlich. First of all, you can't, because you're already coming from the ranks of those who every little bit resent patriotism and say that I don't know what kind of traitors we are, that we don't know what we sold, and you know that they do the most to Alexander Vukic. So did these people who sat with you until yesterday in the parliamentary group come together here to the National Assembly with those banners that say "Vučić the traitor"? Did they wear the "Wolf Not My President" banners? They were just saying all the worst things they could make up and get along, and they're making up all the lies on the subject of KIM, trying to transfer to Alexander Wolfich, and what actually happened? What was going on in real life in the meantime? So did you hear that 17 world states just because of Alexander Vukic's tireless work have withdrawn the confession of the so-called. Kosovo's independence? It happened in practice, it happened in real life, it was real, and these guys talked all the time – you're traitors. They talked, we betrayed something, we sold something, and we made sure that our people could live safer and materially cared for than ever before. That people themselves say, "Mr. Shevarlic, yes, that's right." Our people say themselves – Alexander Vukic takes care of us and shows that we care and can provide us with what they promise and vote for it. Now, you're accusing us of treason, and then you say – but it can't, it's not right that we're talking about who did more and more. It's not fair or fair if we're going to talk straight. So that's the first thing I have to tell you. The people you sat with until yesterday, I don't know if you're still sitting, here, I believe you're not sitting, but they're saying these things to our account, they're doing these accusations without shame and shame trying to pin us on the back, and then when we say, let's measure, let's show what you did in 2004, what you did in 2008, let's show it is a million and one time we've claimed openly in the media that you're against Serbia at KIM, is to get to the international representatives or Pristina authorities. These people, Mr. Chevarlic, with whom you shared the list, who went to the polls, and tried against the Serbian list to play, so they didn't get a single percent vote. This Rada Trajkovic, how many times did she say that our efforts to help our people there were a remethyling factor. How many times did they talk about Belgrade interfering and trying to destroy everything that they, the great geniuses, who have no two votes behind them, have tried to come true since 1999 and what they are and how much they've accomplished, I've already told you everything. So, Mr. Chevarlitch, these are the things we need to understand each other about. Do you know of any other plans, some new plan of Gilas, Jeremic, this Obradovic, Ljotic, someone third, fifth, it doesn't matter who belongs to that side, which points to us, and we save whatever we can on the ground where they've ruined everything they can, whatever they've already sold everything, they've destroyed everything. Watching where the border will be set between Serbs and Serbs, they will look to whom they will agree, whom they will wash, get a little more international support and a little support for their international careers, that they can spend the money they have never earned, and all at the expense of state sovereignty and Serbian national interest. So these are the things we need to understand each other about, Mr. Chevarlitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70682	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70683	Mr. Orlic, I'd like you to tell me what you object to my patriotism, if you object at all? (Vladimir Orlic: Whose? Yours? My personal one. (Vladimir Orlic): I did not tell you that you were traitors. It is. (Vladimir Orlic: You told us.) ) No, I just said that in the film "The Weight of Chains" is a picture of the document "The WikiLeaks" on which, according to the statement that was made, and I wasn't the only one present at the premiere last night, there were other MPs here, the name is mentioned, and I didn't specify a name at all not to cause controversy. You insisted on saying the name. I wouldn't have told him. It was in the period, according to that statement from the film, in the pre-election period of your government. (Vladimir Orlic: Which Government? ) Probably in 2012, because it can't be a SNS spokesman to someone who's the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. (Alexander Martinovic: Nebojsa Stefanovic was then president of the National Assembly, such as the Deputy Prime Minister. That's why I'm saying it. (Alexander Martinovic: What in 2012. You're not ashamed! Why should I be ashamed, please? (Alexander Martinovic: Because you're lying! What am I lying about? (Alexander Martinovic: A man in 2012 was president of the National Assembly. Want to go see a movie tonight? (Alexander Martinovic: Where should I go with you.) What kind of way is this? (Alexander Martinovic: So what is this way, the vice-president of the government in 2012 was the president of the National Assembly. Do you know what you're talking about? I'm just saying he wasn't the vice president. (Alexander Martinovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70684	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, in the most brutal way possible, is insulted by the dignity of the National Assembly. Whatever "Vikiliks" we read, Mr. Sevarlic has not heard of it, but he heard and watched it, he says, on the 2012 "Vikiliksa" movie, where Nebojsa Stefanovic, in his words, then Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, offers the Americans a division of Kosovo. Anyone who deals with politics is following political developments on Serbia's political scene, knows that Nebojsa Stefanovic was elected president of the National Assembly in 2012. He was neither a minister in the government nor a interior minister, and he was not particularly vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Those who have made us an almost unsolvable problem, the almost insolvent problem in Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Ševarlic, are those with whom you went to the 2016 elections, are DSS, Dveri and those with whom you are in the alliance today, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and similar to them. They wanted to shake KIM like a ballast. Little because of the money, little because of the promise that we will enter the EU easier, little because they are otherwise political ignorant and cannot solve any problem, nor can KIM, because they were only creating problems, they have not solved any problems. You lecture us on patriotism, you were in the alliance and today you are in league with a man who directly participated in the breaking up of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, I mean Vuk Jeremic. The transcripts of the talks of Vuk Jeremic, then adviser Boris Tadic, served with Boris Tadic in the presidency of the Republic and the ambassadors, then Serbia-Montenegro in Moscow, that Rocen, where they say -- we are j... Serbia-Montenegro's mother. Then in 2019, here in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, in Nis, we bang into heroic breasts, we defend Serbian saints at KIM, we defend Serbian saints in Montenegro, we don't give Ostrog etc. And we did everything to get them out of Serbia and out of the wings of the Serbian people and of the Pećko Patriarchi, High Decani, St Vasilija Ostroški and all in a row. Who's to blame? It's your blood, Wolfie, it's SNS's fault, he says, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Well it's your fault, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Bosko Obradovic, this Samardzic of yours that leads some kind of movement. He was a KIM man in 2008, in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Yesterday he was at a gathering organised by Dragan Gilas in the House of Unions. The great powerful Alliance for Serbia cannot raise more than a thousand people in the House of Unions. The event features a great statemaker, the great defender of KIM, Slobodan Samardzic, as KIM Minister in 2008. He didn't run away, he didn't speak a single sentence about the defence of KIM when the Cypriots declared the false state of KIM. Every day, Slobodan Samardzic lectures on patriotism, about how Serbia should not join the EU. He, Marko, teaches at the Faculty of Political Sciences – the EU political system, explains to students how the EU works. He sent children to school in the EU. Why didn't he send them to another part of the world? It's this false patriotism, it's hypocrisy, it's that nonsense when you pretend to be something, and you're nothing. You left us a country in ruins, the stone on the stone didn't stay with that Alexander Wolfie you're talking about all the worst. You ruined our country with Montenegro, you failed in 2004, you slept over in 2008. You've led the state to bankruptcy. Then you say - e, but I saw a movie reading some dispatch where Nebojsa Stefanovic, 2012 as Deputy Prime Minister, offered the Americans the division of KIM. When you're such a great Serb and a great agricultural expert, why don't you go to Gjilana for a little lecture on how to grow corn? Why don't you go to Pristina for a while? Why don't you go to some other part of Kim where the Serbs live? It's easy to be a great Serb here in Belgrade and hold patriotic sermons, someone's offering division, someone's looking for division, etc. Why don't you go to KIM for a while? Among other things, to see how many countries Serbia is investing in KIM, in a Serb people who have remained to live on KIM. I was the other day and you know what people say? They say no more money has come from the Republic of Serbia's budget for roads, for schools, for hospitals, for universities. I was at the University of Kosovo Mitrovica. The University of Kosovo Mitrovica building looks better than any university in central Serbia. This is proof of how much Alexander Vucic, how much the Serbian government is fighting for KIM. But we would have been much easier, our starting position would have been better if it hadn't been for the devastating policy of Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Samardzic and all those with whom you and you are similar in the alliance.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70686	The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70687	I have no intention of plowing any more. I didn't say at all that Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic was the Deputy Prime Minister and was mentioned in the dispatch. Alexander Martinovic? How could you not? I said it was mentioned in the dispatch when he was a SNS patron. (Alexandar Markovic: He was never a paraol. I don't know. That's what the dispatch says. At least that's what's been said. I don't know anything else. (Alexander Martinovic: That is not true. It's possible it's not true. That's why I didn't... Because I didn't have that document in my hands so I could show it here, so I didn't even want to mention my name and name. Please. As far as dealings with these others are concerned, you know it best. Then you worked together in the congregation and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70688	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70689	Thank you, Chairman. In one of his previous reports, Orlic spoke about a common rhetoric, i.e. a rhetoric adopted by a national MP, who is no longer in the hall, unfortunately Nemanja Sarović, by Marinika Tepic, Boška Obradovica and others, and unfortunately such examples are enough, but if you were wondering why he adopted this rhetoric by Marinika Tepic, Boška Obradovica and others, it is because they are informed from the same source. So, they are jointly informed exclusively through that magazine, "Tabloid", which regulates Milovan Brkic, and then that speaker, who is no longer in the hall, when he runs out of arguments then always takes out those topics, some kind of hotel, some ric and all that he could read in "Tabloid" Milovan Brkic. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's session is being held in the atmosphere of a campaign organised by a television station. It's "N1" television as part of one company, which is the School's United Media. The campaign serves as an additional pressure on state authorities, some state-owned enterprises, but also as political pressure directed against some state-run officials, primarily the Serbian prime minister, but also the president of Serbia and all this masked, topping with the story of asphyxiation of media, media darkness, censorships, about how the SNS government is suffocating the TV "N1" and other nonsense that we can listen to every day. Then it turns out that behind that story, it's actually just a financial moment. So, it's a business relationship between two companies, two companies, two companies, so, a clean business relationship, commercial contract negotiations, specifically expired the contract between one of these companies, and then those from "N1" started the hajka and haranga and against Telecom, against the state, against the government of Serbia, Vukic, and it's been going on every day, here for weeks and it's slowly becoming the main topic in the country. So, just because they've run out of contracts and because they're unhappy with the business offer of Telecom, we now have to listen every day to the nonsense they've been giving us on their television for days. So for people to understand, this is a purely business dispute that "N1" television abuses for days of daily political purposes. This is a purely political campaign they called to see "N1" and theirs, as they call hashtags or hashtags, whatever it means and then we have round tables, shows, conferences, rallys in the last few days, here I see that they also schedule a rally and a special campaign of lies, false news, a replacement of thesis against state institutions and businesses. So, for the sake of truth, Telecom has made several offers, among other things, that "N1" is being broadcast free of charge until the end of the negotiations, so until the final resolution of the dispute, and the United Media responded by suspending the negotiations by suspending the negotiations. That way they sent a message that they never actually wanted to come to a compromise, to come to an agreement. But the more important thing is that they, in that way, had actually stripped their position and shown that in this whole story, it was only a financial moment, not any media freedom, asphyxiation of the media and the rest of the instructions. And most importantly, no one has banned "N1" television anywhere, but they have excluded themselves from the negotiation process. One more thing should be noted, the chairman, which is a political campaign led by these media against Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. What is the sin of Anna Brnabic in this case? It is a sin that she noticed and stated that "N1" has actually become a little bit of a political party. And the truth is that television "N1" still lacks to collect signatures and register, and in that case they would have all the elements of the political party. So they have a campaign, have hashtags, or hashtags, as it is said, every day, 24 hours a day campaigning against Vukic, against the Serbian government, the Serbian Progressive Party, have a political programme, the political programme is called – how to bring Alexander Vukic down and how to bring Dragan Gilas to power. So it's all there. Here, I suggest they register nicely, expect them to run in the elections, to collect 10,000 signatures and to start slowly, to represent their political programme, not only do I know who will be the bearer of their list, whether Solak, whether Đilas, perhaps Jugoslav Ćosic, but in any case more chances will have in the elections "N1" TV, but the Alliance for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70690	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70691	Thank you. What should we say about this law of authentic interpretation? I think this is what we need to do, and in one part I never want to say anything against people who do their job, specifically what they say before and about our lawyers, about these perpetrators, but the perpetrators who used to work, when they were working through the court, it was a little different. They were people with high school, but they had more understanding. Now the perpetrators who are very active, who in one part had the possibility of getting rich for a very short time, are all things we can talk about, and there are a lot of arguments at the expense of the citizens, and for their benefit. We're changing things now, and that's good. It is good that we have the opportunity to ensure that our citizens who have some debts are freer, and that they can feel that they have no problems, but on the other hand, we're going to sort this out now. A little while ago we're talking about problems in the judiciary, how it's very bad in the judiciary, how it's in one, how it's in the other. Here we are witnessing today that the police, the prosecution and the judiciary are doing their job, where people who have done something wrong or suspected of doing something wrong will answer to the law. I used to speak, during 2017. In 2018, related to the Railways, how the great problem in the section of the railway that goes from Nis to Svrljjig, Književec, is that the railway was in poor condition, that the rails were going through the rails with an increased amount of certain ingredients, where there was a greater number of jumps of these tanks, where there could have been a catastrophic situation at the end and an ecological disaster. God forbid if those tanks were poured out in the Timok River, it would be a catastrophic situation, it would be an ecological bomb. I've talked about it many times. Even people, who are professional, from the Railways said that these tanks are overloaded, that that's why these tanks are falling out and bad things are happening. I expect that these are the elements now, the state is doing its job, that the judiciary is doing its job and that no one is protected from the law. It's a big deal for all of us, that no one is protected from the law, no ministers, no state secretary, no MPs, no council presidents, no people. Everyone who works in the interests of citizens and works under the law, they have nothing to worry about, there's nothing to be afraid of, but that's why all those who work for their own pocket, no one will protect them from the law, and that's why the judiciary, I'm sure they do their job the best way and the way they can. So let us think of a period earlier when judges lost their jobs because they did not like a political leader. It was a period of 2010, in 2011, when some others ruled. In that period, a large number of judges lost their jobs. Later these judges were returned to work and continued to work. Once again, my dear friends, my colleagues, the state is doing its job. All those who have violated the law will answer to the law. It's inevitable and it's shown and now, it's going to show up further. The state of Serbia, the president of the state and all of us are working in the interest of all citizens. I am talking about the problem of the southeast of Serbia, because I want more investment there, that it is also about the end of the roads, at the end of the construction of the railway, that it is about providing quality and water and sewerage, to ensure. New jobs in southeastern Serbia are also the possibility of people staying there to live. As far as agriculture is concerned, that's what I want us to do. The state of Serbia will certainly do its job the best way. We're doing our job right here. There's someone who doesn't think so, but tomorrow, when the time comes, here, it'll be very soon and the time will come, the citizens will say who are worth the support of the citizens, whether it's local self-government, whether it's a local community, whether it's a region, whether it's a state. I am sure of one thing, that the largest number of our citizens will support people who are worth it, and the president of Serbia is a man who is for all of us, I can say, an umbrella, all of us are trying to somehow help build and work everywhere, but one thing is certain that no one who has sinned will be protected. Once again, I, as president of the USS, will support all of this, to work for the benefit of all, but with an emphasis on the countryside, on agriculture, on southeastern Serbia and thus go forward and across Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70692	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an authentic interpretation of Article 48(6) has been proposed here. The law on enforcement and security. Simply, the practice has imposed one such need and I personally believe that this problem will not be solved with authentic interpretation because it would take 551 authentic interpretation to properly interpret this law or to justify many, I say freely, illegal public enforcement procedures. This has come to the National Assembly, that the National Assembly gives authentic interpretation under pressure, on application, or all is one profession or all. A lawyer's profession. This should not be read or interpreted as an attack on a particular profession and there is no group whether it's a political party, whether it's a particular company, whether it's a state body where everyone's wrong. It's simply not true and we don't experience it that way and we don't want to say it. Here is the problem with the application, i.e. to be precise, with the payment of claims after the procedure has been completed by lawyers because the proposal for enforcement should be re-confirmed. It also slows down and collects the process, but there's one thing, respected colleagues, that we should keep in mind. Everything goes by, the parliamentary mandate, the call, but what we say, what we do remains. Here, I have notes here when this law was held in 2011, the Security and Enforcement Act, on 5 April 2011, when it was discussed, when it was discussed here in the National Assembly and it is very interesting what the MPs of the SRS said at the time, and what the current governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the director, for example, the companies "The Ways of Serbia" or "The Corridors of Serbia" said. All that remains recorded here. Here, in principle, the debate was set together by these five laws, a united debate, and here only the discussions of the SRS MPs on the amendments that we have submitted. This is what I said when I said what the governor of the NBS and the director of Corridor of Serbia were saying and making a negative statement about this law. There was supposed to be a thread. We expected it. We couldn't in 2012, members or authorities of the SNS, right after coming to power, to change that law, but they could have already, now that I wasn't determining time, a year or two after that, but there wasn't enough will. The constitution in the most precise way does not define what judicial authority is. He says the judiciary is being tried by the courts, and that's why we have jurisdiction over judicial jurisdiction. This disenfranchisement of judicial jurisdiction did not come from the SNS, but the SNS did so in some segments and supported it. We had one part of the exemption at that time from business courts, so the APR was formed, and then we had the appearance of the notaries. Do you remember what the alarm was for a lawyer when the notaries were supposed to take over a certain part of the court's jurisdiction? Now, the minor problem is that it did not suit the lawyers, but it is a big problem for Serbian citizens. Someone was saying today that the law is being corrected, that something's changing, and it's not fixing. The basic essence is under pressure from the public of Serbia, citizens and actions in which the SRS participated and collected over 100,000 signatures and I can tell you that Serbian citizens pleaded very, very bad about the perpetrators during the signing. I want to believe that out of 217, i.e. 214 perpetrators, plus three deputies, there are also honest people, but it simply doesn't allow them most of them, and it's well known that in presales there's a place of execution, to call it so colloquial, it cost 50,000 euros. The first public perpetrators were appointed by Minister Snezana Malovic, I think. A small part of the perpetrators is now under the authority of the SNS, but this does not release you from the responsibility and relationship of those perpetrators to the citizens of Serbia. We're famous, Serbian radicals, that we like to talk to you and read facts. Here I have one concrete conclusion about the execution, where the basic debt was not full of 30,000 dinars, 29,800 dinars, and the cost of a public executioner is 24,600 dinars. Of which 11,400 are for execution, 1,200 dinars pausing post office service or postal delivery. Well, each of you sometimes had a need to send something post-net. Here, a colleague from the post office is here, and she knows it costs up to a hundred dinars, about, if it's not an excessively rich set... Or up to 180 dinars, if sent to the fastest possible post office. Here, there's 1,200 dinars charged for it. The executioner's route from his office to the execution site, 30 kilometers, three thousand dinars. Successfully done work, six grand. Up here stands the coat of arms of the Serbian state. There's something to be done here. We seem to be the only country in which the perpetrators rob and kidnap their people. From the law of execution and security, as it is, he has now left one such possibility. Who shows up as an executive trustee, in principle? Very poor citizens of Serbia appear, as executive creditors, but in principle it cannot be challenged, foreign banks appear, are less rare, public enterprises in Serbia have given up, they say to me – it is a shame how many public executioners take from our committees, from our consumers, water, garbage, or some other public conditions used by citizens, so some have started to give up, but by talking and some other way trying to collect their decisions. Here, in a way, we are also pushing down the French bourgeois revolution that was tasked with creating this, to divide the government. This is where the division of power goes to the harm of the judicial authority. From who? Well, by the executive authorities, by the executive body, even though it is part of the judicial authority looking through the Ministry of Justice and the like. And then who here has the opportunity to get, not the one who's stronger and right, here has the opportunity to get the one who's richer and right there when the list, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia says who's its debtors, and then who's the biggest debtors, is that where the execution is being conducted? Well, you know better than to do it. There is a huge difference between what the SRS insists on returning to the jurisdiction of the courts. One of his colleagues said that these judicial perpetrators were mostly men with a fourth degree of professional training, but their skills and ability to make it possible in the most rational, most efficient way to charge the executive trustee and the possibility, i.e. to ask the executive debtor to do so in the cheapest and best way. Did that work best? It's not. Was there something else to change? Well, it certainly is. But it certainly shouldn't have done it this way. Now you can say, this one example I'm going to set, which brings God to me by many citizens in a troubled state. In the state of Serbia, the figures are different. It is said that about 51, 52,000 go annually, now that we are not presenting statistics, where over 90% of parents, mostly young, professional people, support the departure of their children to other countries, or countries. I am absolutely certain that this is not every time because of better economic earnings, or better profits. It is also very common because of the injustice that a certain number of people, or citizens of Serbia, are experiencing, cannot be said by the state. The state is being personified by some perpetrators, some specific people by these people. So Serbia is the 10 countries in the world where the fastest outflow is, or out of the population. I am absolutely certain that this is not because of the lack of natural beauty, that it is not because of the lack of or lack of patriotism or love for your country, but also because of the injustice and because of some rules that do not allow some people to be equal in relation to others. We have a commitment and we will do this, I can't say when, as long as the citizens of Serbia want it and they tell us that they want public executioners to be wiped out of Serbia's legal system forever, we now have as a dual education, we have a dual way here, or a dual enforcement. We still have the bailiffs and the public executioners. True, judicial perpetrators are mentioned in some two groups of executions, which are working relationships and family relationships. I guess one thing about speed and the need to react quickly and it means it can, and there's a quick intervention in working relationships, and when it comes to family relationships, I guess there's something that's private and I'd say sacred, because the family should be something sacred, I guess because of that in experiment, first of all, DS shouldn't have trusted that part or that corps of questions in the hands of people who are making harraklia. I'm building here on a number that aren't like that, but can a citizen or a party in the process ask for an exception from a judge, can he ask for an exception from a public executioner? He can't. He can only do it if he's given a meatless executioner. If the local authority covers a number of higher courts or one higher court and one commercial court, then he cannot seek exception. The example that I cited about the amount of compensation or reward, or whatever you want, would not have been so drastic and painful for a public executioner if the court hadn't said that this debtor was right. It's been charged twice. It's not once, it's twice. I've shown you, illustrated what this is about the main debt and the cost of execution. Dear colleagues, if you are able to remain in front of such facts and silent and blind, we will not. Well, of course, it shows now that it is. It is because since October, we have come out with a concrete proposal of the Security and Enforcement Act. First, we went with the law to put out force, and then we prepared a good Security Act and a solution where neither debtors nor creditors would be favored. And there wouldn't be that third party that would be enormously rich through the execution procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70694	Right on line, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70695	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yes, it is true that practice has imposed the need to talk today about making authentic interpretations. I initially gave some examples of why adopting authentic interpretation would help and why it would help parties in the process, on the one hand, and lawyers on the other hand. It's simple, increasing the level of legal certainty in our country. I don't think it takes authentic interpretation for every member of this law. I'm talking about the law on enforcement and security. It is clear to me that there are MPs who would not want such a law to exist or who have a proposal to abolish public executioners, but I also believe that there was a need for authentic interpretation of every member of this law, such a need would arise. There's no difference between law-making during DS and SNS authorities. I talked about it today, but here, I'll do it again. So in 2011, it was a completely different situation. I must say, the most serious approach has not been made to the problems that regulate, or issues that regulate the law on enforcement and security. First of all, it was not intended for the perpetrators to have as one of the conditions for selecting a passed judicial examination. This was removed in 2015. We know who was in power in 2015. As an additional qualification, we asked that a certain training be completed. Also, the 2011 law, I'll remind you, took the right of the debtor to a basic remedy, to a legal remedy, which is the right to appeal. From 2011 to 2016, when amendments and additions from 2015, when the law came into force, the executive debtors did not have the right to appeal during that period, only had the right to use the complaint and the requirement to remove irregularities. The complaint didn't exist. What I would like to say, and as far as the tariff of public enforcement is concerned, I will end up in another sentence, the tariff of public enforcement is not brought by the perpetrators themselves, the tariff is brought by the minister of justice. The last changes, Mrs Kuburovic gave on 23 December 2019 when the 2016 tariff was adjusted. Therefore, it is not quite a finding that we do not want to fix the situation or that these provisions of this law are going to be better, because there is a supervision carried out by the ministry and there are measures that the ministry has taken, namely the reduction in the tariff of public enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70696	Legally on the line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70697	Now, symbolically, when I said that a 551 member could be asked for authentic interpretation, you don't think the last one, when he says the law goes into effect then and then it's going to apply, that he should be interpreted, too? That's quite clear. That's how I wanted to draw attention to all the bad consequences of this law. There's one thing, colleague, you're ignoring. The situation is now worse by the debtors than it was in 2012, when the law began to apply. Because the data that we talked about and Mrs Nela Kuburovic as minister of justice presented how much immovableity was sold in 2017 and 2018. It surpasses the full period before that, since the entry into force of this law. It's quite clear to me, when it comes to judicial reform, when the judges were appointed and elected, that it was as if you were doing something to your opponent, to one of your enemies, as if you were not working in the state where you live and you should do the best you can. And then in the judicial system, including the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, or at that time only the Supreme Court, who was ready to say - we got a verdict. That was terrible. We have great law professors today, we have great students, we have good lawyers, we have graduate lawyers that we first choose as judges. Here's just one name, which I can't help but mention, and that's with the intention of others wanting to compete. One young girl, a graduate lawyer, Tatjana Tesic, all scores of tens except, I think, of Roman law. I apologize if I'm wrong. The judicial exam passed with distinction. She is today, if I am not mistaken, a spokesman for the High Court in Belgrade. I believe it's not a lonely case. We have such good, young experts. That's what we should be working on. In this way, the failures and mistakes of the MPs in the legislative activity, as well as of the judge, are removed in concrete court decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70698	Right on line, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70699	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I also spoke symbolically when I said that not every member of this law needed authentic interpretation, because I wanted to actually say that there are a lot of provisions in the main law on enforcement and security, which is good. You say the situation is worse for the debtors. I don't know how the situation can be worse by the debtors if, when we talked about the amendments and additions to this bill, we first pointed out the protection of executive debtors, to the extent that we had to finally make it clear that we were aware that there were also executive creditors and that we are aware that executive creditors are also citizens of Serbia. One of the most important and most sensitive issues is, on the one hand, the question of the proportion of the debt of the executive debtor and, on the other hand, the value of the asset of the executive debtor representing the subject of execution. It is said that when selecting between multiple means and execution cases, the public enforcement officer shall, under official duty, take care whether the execution is carried out by that means and on that subject which is at least unfavourable for the executive debtor. It may be changed by a specified means and subject to enforcement if there is an obvious disproportionateity between a specific asset and an execution object and the height of the Executive Trustee's claim. So this is another example based on which I would conclude that the situation is not worse for executive debtors. Today in the first part of the session I also said, if we had a situation before that we could confiscate two-thirds of the salary and today one-half of the salary, and if we had a situation that was two-thirds of the pension before and today about one-third, and even one-tenth of the pension, that's also the protection of the debtors. Finally, just to say, since we are in the field of a situation that is reportedly worse by debtors, what is important is that this law has a social character, although the law on enforcement and security is not really expected to have a social character, restrictions relating to forced executions, salaries and charges of executive debtors, to compulsory executions when it comes to pensions, when it comes to restrictions on which things can absolutely not be carried out. And another thing that we were talking about when we adopted amendments and additions to this law is that they are excluded from the execution of all receipts received under the Law on Financial Support to the Family, that the executions and all the funds used by the state authorities to carry out their activities, so that it will no longer happen in Serbia that the bidding takes place on medical equipment or on means to carry out the work within the courts, as previously happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70700	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70701	Just once again to remind ourselves that in 2011, we were against this law, and already in 2016, when we returned to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, we persistently insisted that this law be put out of force. And then we had statements, if I remember the name of the assistant minister of justice, Jelena Deretic, who, in early 2018, announced amendments and additions to the Security and Enforcement Act, saying there would be no more savagery, literally savagery, executioner. I'm not saying, and I'm not going to call at all for cases of taking away the wheelchairs or anything like that, it really doesn't fit, and if it does happen somewhere, let it go to the soul or whatever you want, to the perpetrator or the trustee who could've allowed it to happen and keep on doing it. Certain things have changed. But when? In the year 2019, the Council In 2019, the Security and Enforcement Act was amended and there are certain adjustments compared to earlier times. But does the owner of the apartment have to prove that if he shows up as an executive tenant, the owner of the apartment has to prove that these are his things so that they won't be taken away in such cases? Well, there's a series of examples here where a debtor, and sometimes it's not a debtor, but maybe a connected person, has to prove something that shouldn't, in no normal state it's not proven, but it's based on some assumption, and most of the time there's a string here. You know that. There's another example, I'll remind you, you're coming from Nis, that there's property worth over 100,000 euros sold for 30,000 euros to settle some debt. Well, you know that one contractor, maybe it's popular now, maybe other creditors will be looking for that perpetrator, the third, fourth apartment already took and sold him to their friends to ensure her own status. That's what Serbian citizens can't stand. They're against it. Serbian citizens are not against reconciliation of their obligations and debts. True, sometimes for some reasons beyond their will, they are not in a position to meet their obligation in good time, but they do not flee from it. They don't want that. Very often, this has been discussed before, and a delayed execution has been made. There's no possibility here. Well, are you familiar with the case that the Chief of Police in Chačka was fined with over 100,000 dinars because he didn't want to provide assistance in the case where the mistake was more than obvious? Now you're going to say -- well, he doesn't have the right to think for himself. I think every citizen, every serious and professional man should think for himself to make it better for others.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70702	The word has a People's MP, George Komlenski, the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70703	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, say to me in the village - patient, saved. I will not talk about the authentic interpretation of Article 96(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. I will refer to some of the comments some colleagues in the previous discussion had on the proposal for an authentic interpretation that is on the agenda today. I have to say one thing, so let someone interpret it subjectively, but I can really give it to myself, because in 2016, I put an attorney's office in a standstill so I can devote myself to this job, and that gives me one opportunity to, I think, look a little more unbiasedly at initiatives and what lawyers do when it comes to legislative activities. I'll remind you all here, distinguished colleagues, who are full of mouth problems with notaries, problems with public executioners, that they were the only lawyers who were seriously trying to influence the fact that the laws of 2011 were not passed. The lawyers strike in 2011, but I didn't notice anything, I must admit, at the time I didn't have the honour of being an MP in the Serbian Parliament, that they had just come across some big support for citizens and politics, because they simply didn't understand what their lawyers were telling them. For that reason, I think there should be a lot more hearing about what the attorney says. We're a variety of lawyers, but there are a lot of colleagues who deal at an extremely high level and theoretically studying everything, but in practice, in life, we're the ones who are practitioners, who, by protecting the interests of their parties of these laws, as we pass, have to apply those laws that have been passed before us. Therefore, you must honestly believe that a lawyer can, first of all, identify where potential dangers are in something and think about it in a serious way. In fact, at this point in time of attorneyship, what I agree with, I would not now read all that is written, it tells us two things: that Serbia's Bar Association has the view that it is necessary to improve the mechanisms of unifying court practice by extending the jurisdiction of the highest court, etc. So, it suggests that we have a very serious problem in practice when it comes to equating judicial practice or, as I prefer to say, equal application of the law to all citizens of Serbia. This is what we do in our judicial system at this point is seriously missing and seriously wringing, and that the lawyer has very well recognised why it is so is another thing that I will read here, which is the finding that the established network of courts does not meet the real needs of citizens and it is necessary to pass laws in the field of justice and it is necessary to establish a different network of courts, primarily bearing in mind and evenly burden on the holder of judicial functions, so that in time, the lawyer here also shows that he is responsible and indicates, through practice, seeing what happens, where he squeaks, where there is missing, when it comes to justice in Serbia. Therefore, I would in no way be insinuating, in any way demeaning one honest approach and the desire of a lawyer to help the laws that are passed be as effective and applicable as possible, but I am telling you honestly, and more justly, when it comes to Serbian citizens. This authentic interpretation is precisely because, unlike us, the lawyer recognized where the problem might arise in practice, that the problem could arise precisely in the different interpretation of Article 48(6). The law on enforcement and security. I must say, personally, and I have been taught by some professors there, in the late 1980s, at a time when the legal language was clear, when the terms and terms used were quite clear and the exact meaning of a certain term and when we didn't need such concepts in front of every law, I wouldn't have any doubt that the correct interpretation of this article is exactly what we're proposing. The lack of justice, which is systemic, and this is not just about the even distribution of cases between judges, but about what kind of network of courts we have. It should be done in some future period, it will likely deal with the next assembly of this parliament, to make one extremely serious analysis of what changes in the Serbian judiciary have brought, where mistakes and what needs to be done. You know, the flat rate or the suggestion that public enforcement should be abolished without a deep analysis of what effect it can leave on the legal system, I must say -- is something that might bring popularity, is, in a way, identifying with debtors, but can bring the legal system of the Republic of Serbia into serious trouble. I don't want to be a public enforcement attorney or any other person entrusted with public executions, but what I have to say is that whatever we want to confess or not at this time of execution is being conducted far more effectively than it was done in the period until the public executioners were gone. Could the court officials have done so and that would be a less burden for the debtor? I agree that they could, but we now have an inherited public enforcement institution and what we have to do is be either acceptable to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or to make a decision in some future meeting, after a serious analysis, what to do. It's precisely because before 2012, we had a systemic disturbance in the functioning of a system that existed until then, without adequate estimates, without appropriate analyses, without analysis of what all the consequences could produce, today we are paying attention to something that shouldn't even be the subject of debate. However, I agree that every problem needs to be discussed and every problem deserves the attention of this House. Today, this is on the agenda and needs this as efficiently as possible and as useful as possible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to this authentic interpretation, I'm going to add just one more thing, this is even, not only a more favourable variant for debtors, this is more favourable for creditors and debtors, because in the end this is the cost that would go into the total amount of debt, it would also raise the basis for calculating public enforcement fees, the fees that are due first to be taken in the case of court proceedings, i.e. public executioners, but at the end of the ballad, it all comes again to the burden of the debtor. It's not our goal to put more burden on the debtor. I just have to ask one thing - will we at least try to get out of a debtor's skin once in a trustee's skin? For a moment, let's forget the claims of public utility companies, for a TV subscription, for Infostan, for anywhere in the state's trustee. Do you think that whoever has the right, based on a court ruling and justice to charge for something, is not someone worthy of our attention? Should he wait years to collect his claim? Don't let us look away from the truth in which we live. Unfortunately, in Serbia today, there is a saying that many will not forgive me because I will say it, but it says so – if you want to lose a friend, lend him money. When I was younger, some other time, when one of the neighbors decided to build a house, he didn't have to think about whether they'd have the money to finish it. People offered to help, and they knew that it would do anything to get back to them as soon as possible, and also to help someone else when he was in a position. Unfortunately, we let ourselves go bad, not to be who we were 30 years ago, and we have to do it seriously. Is it a greater shame that whoever is extremely sincere in wanting to help someone gave money, and in fact at the very beginning was deceived, that we would prevent him from being able to collect his claim that through a painful and long-term court procedure he managed to determine that he existed, because we feel sorry for the fraud? You know, we can't look at things one-sided, there are these things. I can agree with you that we need to build certain barriers so that we don't make social cases out of debtors, and in some situations, are we inclined to make social cases? I'm talking about the man again, I'm talking about people, I'm not talking about the state, I'm not talking about municipal enterprises, I'm not talking about public institutions. We were angry, to make a digression now, at a time when the building land was declared social property, registered the right to use, and you could build a house on it only under certain conditions, and you couldn't sell it. We were rightly angry. Now we'll all agree here, I believe, that the state was obliged then to say that if something of interest to the state to pay the market for damages for such a thing, when it had already put its paw on someone's property, you can't use it, etc. etc. Is it now analogous for the state to say – we forgive to some amount of debt owed to other people, and then the state should if it did say so – yes, the state will pay for it. First of all, do we have the right to do something like that, do we have a chance for something like that? That would be fair to the trustees. Dear colleagues, I am pleased that there were not many comments whether or not there are grounds for this authentic interpretation. I'll just remind you, and this really isn't a degree of vanity and responsibility, listening to my fellow lawyers just on this remark right after the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the law on enforcement and security, I have submitted a bill to change this very provision and it is said in a different way. I have not noticed that you have paid attention to this during the regular autumn session and that you have supported this initiative in any way. I can accept that the text might not have been good, it wasn't beautifully written, that I did it wrong, but we haven't even talked about it in any way to fix it. The subject, among other things, of this asylum proposal was what we had one debate about, and that is, when I tried to change my reaction to it, that it cannot be blocked over one half of the profits when it comes to claims for maintenance on the basis of executive documents. I'm telling you, and the lawyer says to you, soon we'll seriously think about changing that too, because time will very quickly show that these provisions will make some of the children, some of them powerless to seek justice, on a fair judgment they can't charge. I'm not going to talk here today about manifests that all executive debtors are willing to do, unfortunately, especially unconscious parents, all of which are willing to avoid helping their children when they're already growing up without them, so that at least they don't feel like an excessive lack. I've been through all sorts of things for 20 years and a couple of years of lawyering, I've seen. I don't want to give anyone else an idea here so they can try to avoid it and eskicipate it. Unfortunately, we've become such people. So I ask you colleagues, that when we criticise public executioners to say yes, yes, and we are guilty here in this house all because we did not adopt an amendment that should change the provision and say – one's immovableity cannot be sold below 80% of the market value. This would protect the executive debtor, thus protecting the executive trustee, not by telling us that it can't be sold at all. If we want to be honest and honest with ourselves, and look ourselves honestly in the mirror and figure out where we're responsible sometimes, this is where we need to talk about this. I may have gone a little far compared to this authentic interpretation, but I guess you can't root it out yet, that lawyer is waking up from me and what experience I have and I want to point out to you my thoughts about the experience, and it's confirmed by a lot of messages that I got today from colleagues who are still active and working and doing this job. They make it extremely honorable and honest. Honestly, what I'm pleased with is that this authentic interpretation will help a lot, and it's very important that that lawyer, which is called a small, individual lawyer, is easier to maintain, and only an individual lawyer, only an individual lawyer with whom you have one more friendly, one more protective relationship can guarantee that someone for your right to fight and fight in the right way, but the big offices that come here under the influence and impression that comes from where I don't like it, and that's the West. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70704	My colleague Banac, on what grounds? Here you go. [[It's because of the replica. You have in Criminal Code...)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70705	... Things about perpetrators please. I just wanted to draw attention to, to point out, that in the Criminal Code there is a non-payment of alimony socially beneficial work. No one's applying that. I don't know why. Here you go, buddy, all kinds of manipulations, here you go clean up, give him a broom, let him clean up this town, and it's not a problem, but nobody's gonna do it because there's a lot of colleagues among them. Secondly, as far as the perpetrators are concerned, please, the public executioners, they, I don't want to make my own example, blocked in agreement with the bankers, so they stopped the receipts they had in the Assembly without documentation, without local jurisdiction, without anything, so I sent them out of the cabinet, so it doesn't touch them at all, because no judge is going to apply the law. Why? Because he's a colleague. It's another thing. That should be known, so we all know why you don't say it. I don't understand why you don't say that. In law, it's esnafi, not to talk about lawyers, we're talking about justice whether it's being applied or not. A lot of things don't apply. I agree with my colleague, Sreto Periæ, and I congratulate him, he is a good lawyer and a good man. He's nice to bring to justice, this is a deposed judiciary, please don't, whether it's coming or not. We also have to watch solidarity, we have to watch the social category. You can't let someone who lives, who makes me want to take everything away from him for objective reasons. What are the objective reasons? Did this people have any income? Does he still have regular receipts today? There isn't. After three months, people don't get paid. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70706	Right on the replica, MP Djorđe Complenski, then Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70707	I thank the chairman. I'll try to stay in the way I tried to say it and in the previous report, and now I'll just say -- do you know how many babies a mother can't work for, because she has to have, and her father won't pay for her support, but he quit his job just to keep from paying for her support, how much does it mean that this one will go to clean streets and community service? Well, it doesn't mean anything to her if that bastard goes to jail, where he belongs, unfortunately. So that part just doesn't stand. Do not recognize your own personal problems as a universal item. Children have the right to a decent life, and when we talk about supporting and confiscating two-thirds of the profits, I speak exclusively of supporting children and those of the oldest, most endangered. So if that's why someone who doesn't support their children is going to be hungry instead of children, I don't have any dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70708	Thank you. I'm sorry, my colleague, Peric, I was warned that the first right to the replica was given by her colleague, Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70709	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I would like to ask you at first that when you give your word, it is given on the basis of a word and that you take care of who it is, as well as why it was given the word and whether it has the basis for reporting or has no basis for reporting. Also, I would like to say that those people who do not agree with the policy conducted by Aleksandar Vukic or the policy conducted by the SNS are not at all obliged to go to the SNS elections in the coalition, but to go out on their own to the elections and instead of some MPs dragging themselves along with the largest parliamentary group, which, above all, makes SNS MPs, here we are now going to lower to 3% of the census, so let's see who gets the votes in the next election. I wish them good luck with that. As for my replica, I would first of all like to refer to Jelena Deretic, assistant minister of justice. That's what we were talking about, and when we were doing the amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security, and since I have a rock note with me, I'm going to read it, it would be best if I didn't paraphrase, it would be best if I talked fast, because somehow I always have a little time. In order not to convince what Mrs Kuburovic said, therefore, I quote Mrs Kuburović, she says – since my assistant cannot speak in the Assembly, I must say that it is not true what you stated at the beginning that Jelena Deretic said, so I can say once again, since I had the opportunity and read that interview in an integral form, that such a sentence was never spoken by the assistant. So now that it is not Mrs. Nela Kuburovic who is currently sitting here, it does not mean that we do not know what was being discussed at the sessions we had earlier in this session. As far as monetary punishment is concerned, monetary punishment is absolutely not in the jurisdiction of public perpetrators, and I call on anyone who has been in a position to be fined by the public executioner, although I find it impossible, to file a criminal report against it and to have the competent authorities respond accordingly. As for the sale of property in the waste and abuse of the perpetrators, there is, above all, electronic surveillance of the work of public enforcement offices, the Ministry has passed a rule on this so that at the daily level now the Ministry can monitor what is going on in the public executive offices, even knowing how many hours in the evening. Otherwise, it was found that the public auction, as the central stage of selling immovable property, was the weakest link back years, and there were some changes that we also talked about at the time, which is that the public contractor, his co-workers from the office, and even employees at the Ministry who are following public auctions can no longer be found at the place of the buyer of some immovable property. I would say to the end, despite everything we've heard today despite all the efforts and despite all the government's intensities that any law in this country has improved, if any changes have happened, it's too late, if those changes haven't happened, we've made another mistake, so I don't think I'm going to answer for the replicas anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70710	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70711	I would take this opportunity to inform my respected colleague, Žarić Kovacevic, that the SRS will go to elections on its own, as every time so far, so what God gives us, and it will give us what we deserve. We don't have any problems here, you may not have thought of us, but here's the thing. Secondly, I like to argue with my colleague Komlenski, because he was a strict man in matter and about one part of what he was talking about also referred to the discussion of the MPs of the SRS. We have conducted a fellow Komlenski analysis of all the laws to ensure enforcement, not Serbia now, but also the former SFRY and compared it to 2011 and established the huge advantages that are on the side of it, is that so, fellow Mijatovic, the former communist regime, and we saw that it was then more humane than it was later in 2012. So we did this detailed analysis, colleague Komlenski. We're trying to put both the trustee and the debtors in the same plane, and from that same plane to push out the third side, and these are the perpetrators. Again, based on some analyses and on what citizens of Serbia live and survive, and when it comes to the alimony that you've talked about, I'm a little emotional man, perhaps for specific reasons of my own personal life, I can't understand my parents, whether the mother or father that a mate has to sue for contributing to the support of the common children. I could never understand it, I don't understand it today, and no one can convince me. When it comes to heights, I can understand that it can be as much or as much, depending on its receipts, but at all the need for something like that, I can't figure it out. Secondly, you've started a good topic, and we always talk about it, when it comes to the judiciary, about reviewing the judicial network. We know what's happening to us, how much it costs the state of Serbia to travel judges from one place to another. So here's a concrete example, the judge from the first los losnica, right, colleague Grubor, and then back to Love, because that day should have a trial in Love. It's something that's a big expense. Some judges have had it and there are several, I don't say this now as an indicator of that analysis, but it happened that they even had car accidents traveling from one place to another, which is sometimes not so close, even up to 100 km. Let's see what this is about. That's what someone wanted to completely disfigure Serbia's justice system. Now let's not wait for all the negative effects to come to us, and then let's say we'll change that. And fellow Members, this is not a matter of politics, this law is a material procedural nature, and it should be interpreted as such, and thus be watched and tried to remove everything that is possible. The authentic interpretation of my colleague Komlenski, I have friends lawyers, and they also pointed to me that this is a problem and it's a good thing that's done, but with this authentic interpretation, I would say a small part, the problems that come from this law we solve, and there are many more problems left that we won't even see yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70712	The word has been given by the proposed representative, Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70713	Thank you. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure to hear that something in communism was better than it started in 2011, so we are here today to welcome and to make it better and more humane. So here we can agree that from one human angle, from the same level to the perpetrators and the creditors should be watched to bring this law to the right place where it is. I'm glad you agreed, but you disagreed with me alone, you agreed with most of the lawyers in the Republic of Serbia who say that the network of courts is not appropriate. Not only according to my local schedule, or in places and seats where we have courts, but even in the way of organising the courts themselves, and I will be inclined to say that what has been changed has been far better for me, and I also need to do a serious analysis. I think the network of municipal and district courts has been far more efficient, fairer, fairer and more accessible to Serbian citizens, allowing better functioning of applying uniform court practice and equal application in each place. You know, rationalisation by all means against which I am, must not be applied and applied there, when it comes to the judiciary and when it comes to the availability of justice to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. After all, the seriousness of the state is measured according to its presence in every environment in which it is possible. So it's not just economic cost-effectiveness to measure it, whether there's supposed to be a court seat in Love and whether there's a court there or not it's supposed to be or it's supposed to be just the days ahead. I think there should be a court, as it was in the old network, if I'm not mistaken, it's been a long time since, but it's also time for us to question a lot of things about the judiciary. I hope that to a sufficient extent, in the current period from 2012 to 2020, we have put Serbia on its feet, strengthened it, stabilised it as a state, stabilised its military force to reduce the risks. This, however, had to be the primary task that this parliament and this government have been working on so far. But now we need to review all these innovations that have been misrepresented to us, and I'm one of those innovations, which I've also personally been against, it's a prosecutor's investigation. The investigating judges were a far more efficient system of work, but this way, if we go a long way to talk about it, looking for anything that was better and anything that should be better, of course there's nothing ideal. Getting the law into every single situation opens up a lot more space for what's not good, you know. I was taught in college, it's one of the few lessons I remembered, that the law of 12 tables, which is actually a law that contains only 12 basic rules, everything else was conscious and conscious, the judge was the best law. There was nothing that was not covered by the principles that were applied at the time. Of course, we shouldn't be coming back at that time, but working together on one serious promotion regardless of which political group, even ideological prefixes in all this, is our task for a future period. I sincerely hope that this will be a priority in the work of some new assembly of parliament after the elections that await us in April of whatever composition it is and whoever it is in it will have a simple obligation to pay attention to this part of the life of Serbian citizens and to work on its promotion regardless of who it belongs to in the parliamentary benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70714	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Comrade Peric, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70715	My colleague Komlenski, we were still saying that in 2008, 2009, and in 2010, everything exists, just like this one was just about the law. Well, how long does it take to get me this analysis? I agree with you, and that's what Mufti said well -- a man should be in a cent, see, you see that we don't have a problem if something's wrong, that's fine. I have, along the way, cited it as some side-by-side financial effect, although it should be taken into account, there is also the safety of those who travel on one side, but the most important thing is that the court is in one place, that it is close and that it is accessible to the citizens. The question, if there were courts where they were before, as you say, were the seats of municipal and county courts, would the perpetrators and such a way of execution ever need them? I'm sure it wouldn't, and now that I can apply some laws that used to apply, I am, I think, although it doesn't seem a little older than you, so I've also learned some principles, but we can't appeal to that time and this, an ideal legal system can't be done today or tomorrow. It can't be done for a reason because we're not ideal people. If we were to respect our obligations, respect our obligations, then everything would be different, less should prove some of their rights. If I could benefit less from my rights, you know how many car accidents there would be or use other people's rights to stop us sometimes. We're not like that, we can't, but let's get started, I'll be happy, I won't answer again, let's try to analyze this network of courts and everything else since 2010. It's a decade, a decade from this kind of application of these judicial laws, and that's quite enough time to see what we need to do to fix the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70716	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are in one situation to give an authentic interpretation because laws can't predict all life's situations, and when we bring the law here, we can't predict how who's going to apply this law and so there are certain misunderstandings, inconsistencies, different interpretations, different application. That is why the National Assembly is serving to give such an authentic interpretation of the law that she herself has brought. Of course, the National Assembly is a place where political, not only professional debate is conducted, I respect the right of my colleagues whether they support the governments of the Republic of Serbia or not, whether they are opposition or not, whether they are the former regime or not. But when we're dealing with interpretation or law-making, let's look at some things, facts and realities in the eyes, as we see that this is one question, that we don't know how the law is going to apply in life, let's see and see how some things happen, which aren't the rule of law enforcement, are politicizing and show that this is the problem since this law has been applied and that this is the general problem that exists. So, as I said in one part of my exposure, it's very popular to attack tax collectors, it's very popular to attack and the police when they do their jobs and control the speed, alcoholism of the driver, etc., it's very popular to attack and prosecute court executives, it's very popular to attack banks, public enterprises if we have a commitment to them, because even if they know they're wrong, they like to be shown as bad, it's out of some way to get revenge for what's happening to them and for some of the obligations they have, and they don't. But let's really look at those life situations as they are, so we have a story that the work on execution should be done exclusively by courts, by no means by private perpetrators. I'm saying, there's this option that we're talking about and we're judging maybe the coster used by private contractors, but let's see what it looks like, so the court of general jurisdiction would do it, because he was in charge of the execution proceedings from the territory of his judicial unit and whether it was strictly an execution at no cost. Now, here's the thing, all those costs now charged by a private contractor, you have to pay the bailiff, but you had to give something else to the bailiff, not everyone. But to ask him to start doing his job, you often had to buy him at least one lunch. For every one of his outings, you had to buy him at least one lunch, and for every legal store he ever took, you had to buy him a treat. Because, well, the man didn't have enough pay, so he didn't want to do his job, so you had to exercise the right that came from a judicial verdict, based on a solution to the execution that his court as an employer had betrayed, so you had to honor him. Now we go into this story and we spread out how the perpetrators conduct some arbitrary actions, legal actions, and destroy citizens, sell out their property. So we say that's what the bailiffs are supposed to do. I have to ask – and on the basis of what act and paper does a private perpetrator do? Well, based on the court's verdict and the decision to execute the court's jurisdiction. He doesn't have the will, he can only do as the court ordered. But I'm going back to that part of the story that it's always popular to attack banks, public enterprises, executives. And now I have to ask one question – what if the trustee is a single mother and that the father, their shared children, will not pay child support, or participate in supporting children whose father or mother is anyway? I'm talking to you, colleague Peric, you were the one who attacked the most. Now, tell me, how is this single mother with the bailiffs that you've had to honor, talk them, force them, beg and wait outside the court to go to work to collect child support? Here, no more banks. There are no more public enterprises. There's no more greenies. How are you gonna charge for this? What kind of picture do you send of us as a state if we are unable to carry out our duties? I told you, when you mention banks, remember that in them, the money of our citizens and our businesses, and if the bank goes into bankruptcy that these people will be left with no money because some hoodlum or mass of mangoons have raised loans and fled all over the white world, or they're hiding property, or, well, we won't deny them social justice. And what about the social justice of the trustee? Someone will say, "Well, banks don't go into bankruptcy." Only in the last few years how many banks have gone bankrupt. You want me to show you how much I have a stockholder's request, these are natural persons, people who, under some duress at the time of the communists, had to buy out the Agrobanks' actions, they lost that money, they lost the shares, Agrobanka failed, went bankrupt. How will they collect their claims? You know how Agrobank went bankrupt? Because of the bad billing systems and the security of the claim. That's how she went bankrupt. A team gathered, took out loans, pulled out loans and assets all over Europe... Go ahead and charge now that there's nothing. And now again, shall we defend the debtor or the trustee? Shall we grab on to the social aspect of each other? Because the fact is that someone raised it, if he had any obligation to have it created or because he raised some money, was it based on a loan from a natural person, was it based on a loan from a financial institution, was it based on the service that was provided to him? Now let's discuss it. If that debt was made, should it not be charged? Here, we said about the debts that, by law, are set for debts that are less than 5,000 euros in dinar equivalent, and they are created by the use of public funds, so, communal and public enterprises can't be seized property. What if the debt is private? What if he tricked, robbed and enjoyed it because there is no legal system to protect that man? Well, it's like his kids haven't been taken away from their money. We are ready to accept both the criticisms and the talks about this tariff that the perpetrators have, that it really be realistic, that it really covers their expenses and their reward proportional to their engagement. He can't be rewarded if he first sent a warrant for forced payment to a business bank or an employer. Well, he only has what's coming to him on a regular basis. That's where we agree, and we can talk about it, we need to get it in order, and it's much better now than it was a year ago. I think there's still room for these paratroopers to stop being used. But don't put yourself aside just for the debtors, you're a people's MP, look and trustees, and they're your citizens. When the bank goes bankrupt, it is paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that budget is again filled with our citizens. A public company when it goes bankrupt, which is again charged from the budget of the Republic of Serbia or from the budget of the local self-government, which is again filled by our citizens. You can't watch the law. We're half-applying it. We don't apply it until halftime. The law applies or does not apply. So don't let everything be subordinated to one relatively small political popularity, and later on, being in an awkward situation when someone asks you why you said it, why don't you keep looking for it, because maybe you're participating something somewhere, it turns out that you cheated on these citizens. There's no need for that. Let's be realistic and say things the way they are. We have the right to political differences, we have the right to see differently the situation in the Republic of Serbia, but you can't say that despite the fact that the Republic of Serbia still has a hard time living today is not a much better place to live than it was before Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party took responsibility for the future of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70718	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70719	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, after such a very good explanation by lawyers Gjorge Komlenski, Neđa Jovanovic and our lawyer Micin, and besides them and the honourable MPs, it is too much to say, but I just want to give my support and say one sentence that without a judicial solution there is no execution. The main question is the court's question, until the court makes a decision on the execution they can't do it, but let's leave it to the lawyers, they today, these lawyers have extremely explained, the citizens have heard it. What I'm saying is, we've been discussing something else for five hours today. Those who debated something else today are not here, they ran away. There were those political opponents who kept leaving, and even one piece that came here, it is important that they accused the Serbian Progressive Party and said, Mr. Sevarlic, that we were to blame for KIM. Dear citizens, we have been patient today all day, as you can see, some of us stay to the end and give answers. They thought they'd say their own and run away. Now we're going in a row. First, these last two days, you heard what the so-called "One of the Five Million" Association is a political organisation. Have we, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People and the Honorable Citizens of Serbia said that since the beginning of the SNS MPs? Of course we are. So here's what's important here, in my opinion, that I don't take the time. First, it was formed by individual universities. Can individual colleges organise political parties? It's nowhere in the world. We've been saying this since the beginning, Mr. Martinovic, Orlic and the honourable MPs, all the time. Is it true, gentlemen, that there are no MPs here tonight? Isn't that right, respected citizens of Serbia? Answer yourself. And what hurts me very, very much, is that young students are played. The students, our children, have been abused. We've been saying that since the beginning. Look at the wonders, respected citizens, they were disappointed, as you heard last night, and Mrs. Serbiana Turajlic. And a dot. But she didn't add who was responsible. Where are their teachers now? And I'm going to answer why they did it. You know, respected citizens, why did they do it, and you distinguished students, played it? The one who led you, one of them was chosen for the fourth time as a doctor, and he taught at the university where I've been teaching for the last 10 years. That was his goal, and that's why, gentlemen of the students, you've been manipulated. They got calls, pushed you out, scattered, traveling circusers, like I said from the beginning, not just for these from "One to five million" but also for these protests. Allow me, we're moving on in a row. Believe it or not, respected citizens, and you who did not follow, the leader of the People's Party, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic confirmed what I say, that the protests "One of the Five Million" from the very beginning were party gatherings. I quote Mr. Zivkovic: "It's funny for me to listen to the stories of "One of the Five Million" as a group of independent students. Since the first protest, this is not an organized imaginary group of random passersby, but political parties," from November 2018 until 13 March last year. On that - watch out for respected citizens - who will speak and what will be the topic of the protest decided no movement "One of the five million", but our consultations - Dr. Orlic - in Old Town, near Mark Bastic". Done quote, January 24th, 2020. Is it true, Mr. Zivkovic, or not? Dear citizens, we expose what we do every day. Now we're going in a little bit of a row. Today, the honourable MP, not only one of my fellow professors but also others from political parties, tried to accuse Alexander Vukic and SNS of Kosovo and Metohija. Right, Dr. Orlic and Martinovic? You denied them in that. And for the sake of the public and the truth, since you mentioned Wikilix, and they called in falsely, my smallness will try to tell the truth, to ask them if it's true what I'm saying tonight. On 29 November 2018, Vuk Jeremic, in the authorial text for "Vashington Post", said, quote: "Alexander Vukic is a traitorous bastard", completed a quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, in contrast to them Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian statesman, a great Serbian reformer, a great Serb patriot who will never, ever do anything to harm the Serbian people, citizens of Serbia and his country. Now let's take the turn. Is it true, gentlemen of the Alliance for Serbia, that you met four at the Chapanese bar Moravski Alasi? Seventy-seven. In 2018, there is no respected Chevarlic to hear this, Dragan Djilas, in a people called the "Jiki Mafia", Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international group of bandits and thieves, Janko Veseinovic, called "Janko Stanocrat", which I did not, by the way, tell him but told him "Free Dalmatia" Split 14. 11. In 2014, there's a list there, so you don't prescribe these names to me, Mr. Journalists, Bosko Obradovic, called "Bosko Violent", we don't need an explanation, we spoke last time, Dusan Petrovic, in a people called "Dule of Cows", to remind citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when he was Minister of Agriculture, the cattle fund was 500 thousand cows, 250 thousand cows ordered to be slaughtered for a year -- is that right, Mr. Petrovic, called 10% in his neighborhood? Now, what were they doing? They staged a plan to launch protests, to bring Vukica down on Kosovo. Dear citizens and honourable MPs, instead of destroying Vukic, should have agreed to return Kosovo and Metohija from where they drove him away. Isn't that right, dear People's Messengers? I don't want to explain. So low fell those moral groats, that the Serbian people's misfortunes were used for their selfish interests. Now we'll move on to WikiLeaks. Vuk Jeremic, a member of the Balkan and international gang of thieves and frauds, said in talks with US congressman Ted Doe in December 2008, quote: "The entry of Kosovo and Metohija into the UN is the best Serbia should hope for," a quote ended, and thus stabbed its own country. Isn't that right, Mr. Wolf Jeremiah, and you're accusing others? What was further, Vuk Jeremic said today by my esteemed colleague, Aleksandar Dr Martinovic and Dr Vlado Orlic. Let's move on. Sergei Trifunović, in a people called "Sergej Pishoi", I did not name it, but he, or the people, quoted it as saying, "It will piss on Alexander Vukic's grave", is 31. 1. In 2019, he said, quote: "Kosovo is lost, Kosovo belongs to Albanians rather than to Serbs", completed a quote, putting itself in line for our country's traitorous bastards. Boris Tadic, just one quote for him. Namely, 27. In the 7th of 2006, in a conversation with, this is what Mr. Ševarlic needs to listen to and not run away and make up stories of some kind, 27. On 7 May 2006, in a conversation with US envoy Vizner, I quote: "He gave assurances that he had worked within himself and accepted KIM's independence as the outcome" finished quote. Is it true, Mr. Boris Tadic, or isn't he? And about the other quotes that I'm not talking about. Let's move on. Sasa Jankovic, in a people called "Sala Pranja", thinks we forgot, and there are those who have not forgotten, who may also be writing some things from this Assembly today, tomorrow. On 3 August 2017, he said, "Serbia is in the interest of Kosovo entering Interpol and thereby acknowledging Kosovo's independence," and thus placed itself in the order of traitorous bastards of our country, not the one they are accusing. Nenad Canak, in a people called "Some Gicos", that term is not what journalists prescribe to me. Gicoje Sebastian is a respected MP in the Romanian parliament, as contradictory as Mr Nenad Canak is. He knows it very well, unlike anyone else. He said on 05.03.2017 as a failed presidential candidate: "I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence" and with that he has also placed himself in the ranks of traitorous bastards of our country, and are accusing Alexander Vukic. Cedo Jovanovic, not to speak, has already spoken, said on 29 September 2015 that Kosovo and Metohija should be independent. Dragan Djilas, in a people called the "Giki Mafia" on 13th August, in a conversation with US Embassy Ambassador Jennifer Brass said exactly like this and I call on him to say whether or not he is – I stand for the arrest of Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo and Metohija, and this puts him in the line of traitorous bastards of our country. Professor Rade Veljanovski, who salts our minds every day, in a people known as "Rade eggs", teachers know why, not to explain because of the weather, said 21.4.2018, quote: "Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence and secure a chair in the UN," finished the quote. Is that right, Mr. Professor, colleague Veljanovski, and you salt us every day in the City Assembly and on various newspapers and televisions? That, Mr. Veljanovski, puts you in line for the traitorous scum of our country. Now let me do it one more time. I think this fellow is getting weaker, but he's doing a public quote. Goran Markovic, in a people called "bumbar", in 4.7.2019, said, quoting: "That Aleksandar Vukic is a primitive figure", completed a quote, and added: "The prost, and the crowd is its natural environment", finished the quote. Mr. Markovic, he didn't tell me – said, but did you say it or not? And in 30.8.2019, he said that the Serbian government, I quote, "Terrorist and that elections are organised by a group of bandits," a quote concluded. Is that right, Mr. Honorable, Mr. Goran Markovic? Another, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would recommend that Goran Markovic frame all these spoken abominations about the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, and his associates, as well as in this Assembly, and put them in his living room and remind himself daily of his high artistic range and the high degree of civilization values, and in the morning when he wakes up, he wakes up and looks in the mirror, he will see a bloated beetle full of hatred for the Serbian people and President Vukic, who has been lying down for the last 28 years in it. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I fear when he learns that Aleksandar Vukic and his president are, and he said he did not, that this hatred in him will crack and destroy him himself. God help him. Finally, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, allow the honourable MPs to ask you and the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia seven questions. The first question we ask us and the citizens – who was the first of the presidents of Serbia to mark NATO's aggression against our country? Answer you, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you, honourable MPs, and I will remind you - Aleksandar Vukic. Who said the first of Serbia's presidents - I don't want to go to NATO? Another, but Alexander Wolfie. The third question - who said the first of our country's president - will not impose sanctions on Russia? I got from respected professors on this, they know, two bets two and I'm asking them to do it. Who said that first? Well, Alexander Wolfie. Is it true or not, answer yourself, distinguished citizens? Who was the first of the presidents of the Republic of Serbia to tell the West – will not stop me from working with friendly China? Who's first? Who wants another one, but Alexander Wolfie? The fifth question - who, after the 1999 bombing of our country, raised Serbia's army to an envious level by a criminal NATO alliance? Answer me, you respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I'll just say - Alexander Vukic. And this is very important, honourable MPs, respected intellectuals, gentlemen professors, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, remember well. Who first, after 175 years recovered the 166th Gospel of Miroslav, while many of the presidents of the Republic of Serbia tried? Alexander Wolfie. This last question is very interesting, Alexander Vukic is the last and only free ruler in Europe. Is that how gentlemen are intellectuals from the East, the West, the North and the South, and within our homeland? Isn't that right, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Is that right, honourable MPs, or not? Once again, you “one out of five million” who have led me to the controversy for two years, do not defend you to a respected teacher and two other teachers from us, but to defend them from you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am sorry that today some opposition MPs in the first row from the DOS have tried in some way to take responsibility for what is happening in Kosovo to the SNS. It best proves that the Serbian List won all votes. I'm not talking about Rada Trajkovic because I've been talking about 15 minutes here. All those who have tried some pigs these days, as the people would say, do to Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic and me in the Republic Square in front of 300 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have also begun to touch our families. May it serve you honor. Our love for your country and for you is stronger than your hatred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-03-0.u70720	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what we do today's work. We continue our work tomorrow on Tuesday, February 4, 2020, starting at 10.00 p.m. Thank you.
