ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1753	About seven and thirty groups of people close to Muamer Zukorlic raided the construction site of the Islamic Centre yesterday. The Islamic centre is working on Mr. Dzjad Aljovic's gift plot, incubated six acres of land to the Islamic community of Serbia. On the plot is the building of the Islami centre "Jami". The group has driven workers from the site under threat of weapons, according to construction workers. Then they blocked the road that's been in existence for over 50 years. That's where a whole village is used. We had a similar situation last year when the same people raided the central mosque in Prepolje, knocked down a barbershop in the center of Novi Pazar, usurped the Isa Beige Square in the centre of Novi Pazar. They also ruled out heating at the sultan Valida mosque in Sjenica. There was always a good custom with us in Sandzak, and if someone builds a neighbor's house, they come to his cell phone, they come to help, and especially if a mosque was built, and the church all brought donations. It was never like this to come with a weapon and ban the construction of a mosque. Therefore, I refer my question to the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Justice. How is it possible that in broad daylight they come to someone else's property and bulkhead the road, and that the police and the D.A. say there are no elements of the crime or of the offense? On what grounds did the New Market Police Administration issue a statement yesterday? Are the legitimate people who trespassed illegally on the site? Did they search them and thus establish that they were not armed, as they claim in the statement? Did they take statements from workers and witnesses who were threatened? Based on this statement, it can be concluded that police are trying to cover up this lawlessness and leave an open conflict among citizens in Novi Pazar. How long will the police provide protection and allow the bullying usurpation of other people's assets from the same group of thugs? Is that the price that citizens must pay for the political positions of individuals in this political group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1754	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break to get the service to see what it's all about. [[after breaks]] I'd like to ask you ladies and gentlemen, if everything's all right now, to re-establish the quorum. Please insert the cards into the MPs again. Thank you. There are 129 MPs at the moment. You must reapply to the word, under Article 287. Who wants a word? The word is Jelena Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1756	Dear President, honourable MPs, in the context of the agenda of the current session at which we will elect REM members, I would like to ask today a question concerning the implementation of the Law on Electronic Media, which concerns the role of REM as an independent regulator in the electronic media sector. The role of REM is defined by law and concerns the implementation of a established media policy in the field of information. He is also entrusted with a new media strategy. The importance of REM far exceeds the role of controllers and bodies that sanction content, but REM also plays a role as catalyticizers, one of the important creators of a healthy cultural environment and objective public information, to which citizens of the Republic of Serbia have every right. All public powers are of paramount importance to our society that REM has, because we are certainly aware of what power and power all electronic media have, when we are talking about collective social consciousness at all, more precisely by determining the cultural level of the entire nation. Given that REM is a functionally independent organisation, I believe that the media should and must be free and independent, but that they organise their programmes in accordance with respect for human rights and freedoms and to protect, both media users and the public interest. We need to enrich our daily life by making our operators, productions and content creators, through dialogues and concrete support measures and helping to create more educational programs for children and young people, more sports programs that would highlight the importance of sports, but also artistic and educational content that would enrich and focus in the right direction kids who are our future. We have great examples, such as, say, a format that was broadcast, "Pink Stars", which promoted the talent of children, and was one of the most watched programs, or, say, the "Virtuosis" programme, which is currently being broadcast at a public media service and also, a great way to bring classical music and children closer to classical music. Such and similar types of programmes should be re-produced and helped by operators to survive in an extremely harsh market, but by being free when it comes to editorial policy, but supported and encouraged to create more creative and quality content. As an example of quality media content, I would also like to praise the "Cultural Log", which is broadcast on RTS, but, for example, I would suggest perhaps a second prime term that would give greater accessibility to the content of the auditorium and the expansion of topics and contents from the cultural field. I'm sure we'd all like to see more of these on all national frequency broadcasters. I believe that the creation of more of such content would be a pleasure to all both states and citizens who would once again go into greater consumption of cultural content. Operators would cover time for culture and sport, which on the basis of the licenses they have to have daily on their programs, cultural MPs, sports and scientific aprons could finally work and begin to carry out their missions and perhaps at some point start to live better than their work. On this occasion, I would like to commend the defined budgets for the culture sector in general, but also the increased resources for certain branches concerned by creation. This is a great move forward, towards understanding the importance of culture and art, and if again I believe that the budget for the culture sector at the moment is 15 euros per capita, we can and must raise and draw closer to our European partners by separation for culture, but also to neighbouring countries, such as Croatia and Hungary, which separate 43 and 35 euros, respectively. Only illustrations work, only one shortcut of five or six kilometers in the construction of planned highways, if such savings were to be directed towards culture with quality media content, lead Serbia to the head of the region to help culture and return it to the pedestal that it should enjoy with our citizens. Every step towards promoting knowledge, education, culture, sport, social justice, equality of opportunities acquired is indescribably important because in this way, in some future period, if we concentrate on these very values, as we have strengthened in the economic domain, we will be identified as a society that cherishes and invests extremely in our identity, heritage and creation. I would like to ask, in relation to all of these, the question of the Minister of Culture and Information, Mrs Maja Gojkovic, recently, about the need and amendment of the Law on Electronic Media, in the section relating to REM, in order to remove ambiguity, especially in the application of the provision of this law, which concerns the telling of measures to media service providers for non-compliance with the law. I'm referring to the pronunciation of warnings, services, warnings and temporary bans on publishing software content. I would particularly stress here the need for more precise regulation of criminal provisions that would ensure a responsible respect for the general obligations, the broadcasters referred to in Article 47. The e-media law, which refers to software content that broadcasters must adhere to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1757	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1758	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago, on Monday, December 14, 2020, it was 25 years since the signing of the Dayton Agreement. The negotiations were held in November 1995 at the Dayton Air Force Base in Ohio, but were officially signed, or the agreement was officially signed in Paris on 14 December as soon as the war ended in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It seems that it was the very anniversary that led to a general, very synchronised attack on both Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, and the president of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, both abroad and from the region, but from Serbia itself. We already know from experience that every significant anniversary from our recent history can hardly pass without attacks from the region, so Tirana, Zagreb, Sarajevo, Podgorica, until recently, we will see that from now on the situation will be, unrarely and Skopje, and we are used to it already. But what is devastating is that many from Serbia have joined the campaign and hashish against Serbia and Alexander Vukic, who is their daily target, and only because he is fiercely defendingspread national interests. For decades, we have been listening to accusations and attacks that Serbia is the only one to blame for everything that has happened in the past, that Serbs are the only culprits for all the wars of the 1990s, that Serbia is the only one responsible and a whole series of monstrous accusations coming from the region, but I cannot understand the need for this orchestrated campaign to be joined by many from Serbia. One of the portals, and miraculously, by Gilas' control, published a series, least said, of problematic titles, in one day. In one text, he says -- a very dangerous property of Republika Srpska from Serbia. Who's yours? What is the way in which this bargaining is done? Why are you lying? Why are you launching such dangerous weights? When did you hear from any representative of the Serbian state that he did not respect the Dayton Agreement, that he denied the Dayton Agreement, the principles and the assets of the Dayton Agreement? When did someone from Serbia make a statement denying the Dayton Agreement? Give me one example, give me one statement. Serbia is a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement. So, now that we're the guarantor of the Dayton Agreement, we're breaking, or destabilizing the Dayton Agreement, and those who openly threaten to cut the Republic of Serbia into two parts at Brcko, what are they? Peacekeepers. They're Democrats. Well, there is a Viskovic, who says that in Serbia an intellectual elite creates a feeling that is very dangerous, which is that Serbia deserves compensation for Kosovo through the accession of Republika Srpska. Why are you lying? Why are you making this up? Why do you launch such dangerous weights? Well, there's this Milan Antonijevic, who says – Serbia should stay out of BiH's affairs. The co-chair of the Igman Initiative for Serbia, he said today that Serbia should stop interfering in a destructive way in BiH. Shame on him! How is he not ashamed? How are you not ashamed, Milan Antonievich, to make a statement like this? If you and your sponsors are giving you money to talk this shit, if you don't like Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, that's your problem. You will not prevent us from loving our people and helping each place, working on the well-being of Serbia and Republika Srpska and helping our people wherever they live. When Serbia gives money for concrete projects in municipalities, both in the Republika Srpska and in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is a destructive interference in BiH's internal affairs. How is he not ashamed? And how much longer with autoshyvinism? How much more of that masochism in these people? Is there a limit? On the same day, they pulled out the oil from that Sasa Jankovic, who, in an author's text, again for one daily under the control of Dragan Gilas, said, "Vučić pushed Serbia to the wrong side of history." Not to mention various Albanian lobbyists, Viola von Kramon, Daniel Server, and to announce that Madeline Albright will actively engage in the process of negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina and any other pressures that will increase in the coming period. We also have that Croatian writer and journalist Dežulovic, who tells us that Belgrade stopped being a city and became a dirty cassaba, muddy casabs, and then attacked Stefan Nemanja and "Belgrade on the Water" etc. It is not a problem for the unfortunate Dežulovic, the problem is in domestic autoskillers and other Serbians who have taken over and supported the narrative faster and better. Well, that's the kind of guy we're dealing with. It is clear that pressure will increase in the coming days, both on Serbia and on Aleksandar Vukic as the fiercest and most powerful protector of Serbian national interests. It is not appropriate for Serbia to be strong, strong, self- and self-absorbed and will therefore continue to try to bring down Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1759	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since none of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan M. Markovic and Vesna Ivkovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the meetings were called to be attended by representatives of the Government. I welcome the Minister of Finance, Sinisha Malo, with his associates. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours, because of the need to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on to a search in detail. You have received an amendment that was submitted to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism by Parliament Dr Aleksandra Tomic, as well as the Report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Government's opinion on the table. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we begin the search of the draft law in particular. On the 20th amendment by Parliamentarian Dr Aleksandra Tomic, the government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending, the amendment was accepted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is proposed by Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1760	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, first to thank the accepted amendment. The amendment refers to the extension of the deadline for the implementation of the digital property law, and to amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The six-month delay actually gives us a chance to fully implement the digital property law in a year and that we as a society should prepare ourselves for such a thing. But here, today, I told my colleagues, the Guardian announced that on today the bitcoin as a cryptocurrency has the greatest historical value – 21,380 euros, which is almost 30 times more than it had in March of the month, when it was about three and a half thousand euros. So, with us, the state has recognised growing economic activities that relate in general to digital assets and all transactions that are carried out when it comes to crypticcurrencies. It's not just a bitcoin, it takes over 66% of the others, and it has over 2,000 currencies. It's like a value paper store, except here we have virtual currencies, with her not having an intermediary so far, and she didn't have a name and name. We have abolished the anonymity of this law, introduced participants in the market and simply the state has dealt with finding the most appropriate way for those who trade simply to invest through a certain trade of crypts, to apply to the country's portal, to simply report their activities and thus enter legal investment flows into a small economy. There's one more thing I'm going to say, as far as this law is concerned, if you'll allow me, the chairman, maybe a few minutes longer. When we're talking about the IT sector at all, we have 116 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises today, in total, when we're talking about cobwebs. You were the minister of the proposal, and last year we adopted, support to IT companies that are opening right by the pausal taxpayers system, and you then made a proposal that we accepted here, which is to subsidise the payment of taxes and contributions in 2020 70% for new employees, in the following year 65% and 2022. 60%. Why am I saying this? Because this is a fast-growing industry and because when you look at these blockcane technologies that actually represent one large scaler, which makes up a relatively small number of people, actually represent one industry, as one production activity that happens with certain machines. That small number of people are paying taxes and contributions right now. We actually open up the possibility of young people working and opening up companies here, not having to do it abroad, or doing it in a completely uncontrollable way, but simply here on a well-known market and paying those taxes. On the other hand, we have now entered a period of the pandemic of the Crown, which really affects the small economy. When we talk about a small economy, we're talking about the flatulents, the taxpayers you've made possible on a proposal here to pay the next year's tax on 24 wars. What's good is that that tax will be postponed for more war. But what they feel, I mean in relation to this IT sector, which won't have a problem paying taxes and contributing, is somewhere that they've been denied the right to work, given that we have a closing at five o'clock in the afternoon and have no right to work for the weekend either. Now we need to find ways, not just you as the Ministry of Finance, but also the Ministry of Business and, of course, with the Crisis Staff, to allow these people to really make as much money as they can afford to pay a flat tax from next year. And it's somewhere crying out for all those little and cosmetics and hairdressers and carriers and tailors and cobblers. When you compare their small business of services and the relationship of the IT sector, which we attract with these good measures, then somewhere we have one imbalance and on the one hand, people who are really developing in that part, and we as a state look forward to it, when it comes to digital property, and on the other hand, we have a really big problem of small businessmen, who need us to meet. So, next year, I hope we find a solution to support this part of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1761	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Nebojsa Bakarec, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1762	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, therefore, I will point to the utmost importance, of course, and this law to which this amendment has been filed, but I will point out the exceptional importance of this amendment precisely because it is very important that this law or parts of this law be applied as soon as they begin to prevent abuse, all of those abuses carried out by the tax, digital or offshore mafia, because the offshore mafia is also operating in this digital area. So I'm going to name three examples of abuse in a digital area through a fairy tale or a bass about three pigs that didn't build anything, they weren't building any houses, they were building three pigs that were robbing. The first example of digital abuse is a $70 million robbery that took place in Nis for nine years. It was 11 people, but they didn't rob Serbia. The robbery was done abroad, I think American investors were robbed through fake platforms and it is still positive that those faces did not rob Serbia. That's one example. It's more natural that the crime in this case isn't worth it, because they're all under arrest, but he's probably not an arrest warranter. I'll move on to the third pig. This is the most famous example of global abuse in the digital field. The author of the robbery is the famous Oxford doctor, Bulgarian businessman Ruž Ignatov, so indeed the doctor of law with the Oxford degree who conducted the sale of a fake currency she called onecoin. She sold it for four years. It has been robbed around the world and has not been well robbed by Serbia, but has been robbed around the world between four and 15 billion euros. So you see how dangerous abuses are in this area and here it's significant again... The more natural thing is that Rose Ignatova disappeared in 2017. She's suspected of having changed her identity. However, because it has robbed this amount of money that has not yet been determined, whether four to 15 billion euros, I can basically assume that it has been liquidated because it has robbed some very dangerous and unfortunate players during that period. I'll go back to that and, therefore, it's a terrible abuse, she was selling a fake crypto currency. Now we're getting to the other pig. The second pig is very familiar to all of us, it is yellow and has robbed 619m euros, but it has not robbed the world, but this second pig has robbed only in Serbia. The robbery was exclusively the city of Belgrade and robbed only our country of Serbia. That pig, let's say, did business in the virtual area. That pig invented one krypto currency before the other currency crypts were invented in the first place. It's a chico's krypto currency, invented by Dragan Gilas and his own brother, of course. Shikoin marks the value of a second of advertising time expressed in euro, and that currency was useless to the media that sold seconds and huge world houses that bought seconds. It was worth only to Dragan Gilas, who earned 619m euros from that currency crypt. When we talk about those 619m euros, it's a completely abstract issue for all of us. That's what many people said, but to understand, here's to explain, that a citizen understands what 619m euros is. Gilas earned that money, under the name of ten years. You're ten years old, 3,650 days old. So, every day of 3,650 days, Dragan Gilas made 167,000 euros a day, times 3,650 days, means five million and a few euros a month, over 61m euros a year and so on for 10 years, and he was the director of the National Office of the President of the Republic, Minister and Mayor. That's when he gained 619m euros. Look, just these 167 thousand euros one day is more than we all earn by honest work for our whole lives, and the message of Dragan Gilas is what I'm trying to do, you're not going for your whole life. That's what the Partibreakers said. So, these are abstractions, but now we understand what it means every day, and so it is one day, when he put Roma into containers, extremely inhumane, and what there is a report of Amnesty International that will remain forever and ever, but on that day, when Gilas, like some in Germany in a dark age, he put Roma in containers and placed them there in some dark forest on the edge of Belgrade, and that day, Dragan Gilas earned 167 thousand euros. He earned 167,000 euros and on the day he went to his ex-wife and former father-in-law, attacked them, inflicted a former 70-year-old father-in-law, and that day, Dragan Gilas earned 167,000 euros and so for 10 years, 3,650 days and now you understand how many figures they are. Not to mention, is Dragan Gilas, when we talk about the prevention of money laundering, and here there were laws concerning and tax collection from this area, digital, which is being put into order, did he pay the profit tax, on all those 619m euros? I'm saying it's not because Dragan Gilas is doing business in the offshore area today. His brother's doing business in the offshore area. Digitally operating in offshore areas, and those two invented a new game, you know, they're big innovators. In Vojvodina you have this game called the Shore, and here the Gilas brothers and Mr. Solak invented a new game called offshore and it is played in offshore areas. So, big innovators. When I talk about these 619 million euros, I'm going to give you one exclusive and fantastic information, it's a good thing we have a transmission of RTS. So the RTS hub is behind this door, and I'm going to give the representatives of RTS after the speech, and that's important information, the answer I got from the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime to the parliamentary question that I asked, and as far as these digital areas are concerned, is also RTS. The issue concerns RTS robbery, which weighs 688m euros and the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, says three proceedings are being conducted, two against legal persons, four natural persons and one case against a legal person on suspicion of committing crimes. There are four individuals suspected, one legal person, while, it's very interesting, and I'm going to say something about it, one suspect is not available. Of course, the D.A. doesn't say the names, because that's correct, but this information is fantastic and I have to commend how institutions work, how the Assembly works. You deliver my question to the D.A.'s office, and the D.A.'s office gets an orderly answer. For five years, as a city councilman, I asked one question at every session to Dragan Gilas and other questions concerning the bridge, everything and never in five years did I get an answer to a single question. You see here, in two weeks I got an answer to the parliamentary question. So now I'm going to express my concern. One of the defendants, possible, is the person who is not available, and I will say who it is, that is Jadranka Drinic, Gilas's director, co-owner with him was in "Darrekt Media". Since August 2019, it has not been available to our authorities. So it's 16 months, it wasn't a crown. Our authorities have taken action before the competent authorities of Italy, but they are not yet able to find it. Now let's go back to Ruž Ignatova because I'm concerned about the safety of this Director of Gilas, Jadranka Drinic, the question is, is she innocent, if she's innocent and alive, not to report to the authorities? However, as Ruza Ignatov disappeared, the question is, what about Jadranka Drinic and who has the greatest benefit of Jadranka Drinic disappearing? Let me put an end to it. It's gone. I think the clear answer is who has the greatest benefit of Jadranka Drinić disappearing, and the person who has the greatest benefit of her disappearing has a long history of violence, whether verbal, or family, and I am seriously concerned about the fate of Jadranka Drinic. Also, as for Mr. Solak and the gentleman, so first of all, Dragan Gilas, we said there are a number of firms not established, a huge number of companies in the six countries of the environment. There's a string of offshore companies. And if what I'm saying is true, I'm only telling you one example of where his brother was caught that he was the head of an offshore company, or the presidency when they were selling one million-dollar villa and his brother Gojko Gilas was the head of the office. And why was it necessary to open the office of an offshore company that was apparently owned by Dragan Gilas? Because the money laundered wanted to get into Serbia somehow to buy that villa, so they did. Of course, they discovered that the offshore company exists, but as there are many others. And Brother Dragan Gilas, also has two, least, companies now owned by digital business, digital veil, webfest and Marthach industry in Montenegro. Šolak, also the owner of the 2018 Darekt Media, when Gilas sold it to him with a series of machinations that were difficult to establish even by friendly screams. There's also a series of offshore companies, his companies doing business here, and what he was selling, he wasn't selling N1, United Group, United Media. Look, it's like those Rusks, the Matrus or the Babas, one in the other, so whoever catches them, there's 100 "matrus" in each other. And I'm going to end with this, with one short message to Dragan Gilas, and I'm going to quote again, because we can't quote beautiful poets here, and here I'm going to quote "Psychomopop" from their song, which is usually the favorite song of Dragan Gilas, it's called "I love only myself," and it says, "The dark stains of the past on Gilas' white shirt, the washing machine of the future will never wash." Long live Serbia. Now let's go to RTS, copy the answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1763	By amendment, MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1764	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Orlic, it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted this amendment for the reasons that the provisions of Articles 6, 7 and 8. The laws apply with the date of entry into force of this Act, not after six months of its adoption, and this goes into favour with the current epidemiological situation caused by the corona virus, as well as the esteemed MP, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and stressed, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its reasoning. Speaking of Kovid - 19, I must point out, Mr. Vice President, that during this pandemic, some of the opposition parties have reported to a certain vulture corona in the form of Prof. Dr. Mile Alečković, Dr. Nada Kostic, Dr. Jovana Stojkovic and Srdjana Nog, former MP in this high house. And not only do these four spread daily false news about vaccines, about masks, about distances, about the coronary virus, about the PCR test, about the Crisis Headquarters, about the Government of the Republic of Serbia and about the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, as well as the honourable MPs. Our heroes, our doctors, their nurses are telling them, and I quote, "Come to your senses. Come and see how people choke, don't talk," finished the quote. So, Srdjan Nogo, a former MP in this high house, Prof. Dr. Mila Alečković, Dr. Jovana Stojkovic, Dr. Nada Kostic daily urged citizens of the Republic of Serbia through various portals not to wear masks, not to make a distance, not to be vaccinated and that there is no coronary virus. They are eyelessly insulting the Crisis Headquarters, especially Dr. Kona, the government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. Speaking of spreading false news, the esteemed Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr. Orlic, notes that the second part of the opposition in the image of Djilas's Balša Bozovic, some NGOs in the image of Milan Antonijevic and Sonja Biserko, spreads the truth about the current government, and particularly about the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. Thus, Djilasov and Jeremic Balša Bozovic falsely accused the current government in Serbia, and particularly the president of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, of creating a Serbian world on the route of Belgrade-Podgorica-Banjaluk, accusing the current government of leading a large Serb policy, he attacked the SPC, even the dead patriarch Irinea. Djilasov Balsa Bozovic has formed, as you are informed, the Academy of Democracy in the Western Balkans, and its headquarters is in Novi Sad. The first lecturer at the academy will be Bogic Bogicevic, a destroyer of the former common state. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the esteemed Vice-President of the National Assembly, these days, the European Community has published a study called "Mapping False News in the Western Balkans", which was made for the European Parliament's Foreign Policy Committee. Look at the wonders, the European Parliament's study found that the largest news distributor is not the media in Serbia, but Djilasov Balsa Bozovic, the opposition. Since the European Parliament's study found that Djilasov Balša Bozovic, the biggest liar in Serbia, I call on him, publicly, that if there is at least a minimum of civilizational or democratic culture to apologize publicly for all the lies and vomit he has spoken in this high house for the past five years, and not only here, but also in the means of public information on the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, the President's brother, the President's family, the Ministers Velibor Loncar, Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic and Aleksandr Vulin, the People's MPs Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic and Dr. Vlada, congratulated, Orlic. Of course, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Djilasov Balsa Bozovic, has these days, I said, formed a Academy of Democracy in the Western Balkans, with a centre in Novi Sad. It's not for no reason in Novi Sad, remember what I say. The first lecturer, as I said, will be Bogic Bogicevic. It will be an academy, respected MPs, to spread false news in the Western Balkans, as the European Parliament's Foreign Political Committee found that Djilasov Balsa Bozovic is the biggest liar in Serbia. In a text full of lies and baseless accusations on Serbia's account, especially at the expense of President Vukic, Sonja Biserko suggests that the international community must remove the malignant impact of Serbian claims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, noting that Serbia's policy acts as a destabilising factor. It states that Republika Srpska is war prey and that Serbia will not give up on it. Mrs. Biserko, of course she will not and will protect by recognising BiH in accordance with the Dayton Agreement. In the anti-Serbian campaign, the failed presidential candidate, behold, will likely be in these next elections, Sasa Jankovic known as Sale Prangia, otherwise the old business partner Dragan Đilas, an actor in the "Pistol" affair in which Predrag Gojkovic allegedly committed suicide in his apartment, which I spoke of several times in the previous term in this high house, and I must point out that I received an answer to the question asked that all documents in the Belgrade City Archives were destroyed, and the archive director was, behold, Branka Prpa. By the way, Jankovic had a gun without permission with which he allegedly committed suicide. There is also Mr. Milan Antonijevic, director of the Open Society Fund Antonijevic, says, quote – Serbia should stop mixing in a destructive way in BiH, completed a quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pure fiction. Dear People's MPs, did anyone in this high house speak a bad word for parliament or for BiH or for any neighbouring country? Did any of the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia do this or possibly the President of the Republic? Of course not. Here, dear citizens, you can see how he got involved in a direct hack on Alexander Vukic, started with the text of Sonja Biserko published on Deutsche Vele's portal. The Satanisation of Serbs included a Croatian, Dežulovic, an alleged writer, who quoted Belgrade as saying -- that it is no longer a city, only a slightly larger cassaba, muddy, sad selendra, completed a quote. Dear citizens, of course, and Slobodan Georgiev got involved, supported him by adding, quoting – even worse than that. This is the Free Georgiev who constantly attacks Alexander Vukic and the state of Serbia without arguments, but without shame. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, will continue to lead a peaceful policy with our neighbours and around the world, regardless of the lies that are spread daily towards economic progress in order to make it even stronger and better, aware that it will interfere with many factors both inside and outside. We will expose the Satanization of our country, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our government and our president whoever it came from. This is ours, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the people, the obligation we have given to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this high house, making an oath to serve the truth of freedom and of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1765	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. By amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1766	Thank you. Don't worry, Mr. Atlagic, though I just don't understand why we as a people have experienced that we have to defend ourselves all the time and be in some kind of defensive state. You know how, my father and all the families of my father are from Republika Srpska, and I'm very proud of it, and what I can say as much as I can get up there, and again, in Serbia, they tell us that it's very good to split into more parts, how decentralisation is, and when it comes to BiH where there are three constituent people there, they say it's best that we have centralist authority and that Republika Srpska abolishs as an entity. Of course it's something that's illegal. I am very proud that all of my fathers' families from Republika Srpska will always be Belgrade's capital, not Sarajevo, and Sarajevo will respect it in the sense that it was the second Serbian city per capita in the former Yugoslavia today, which unfortunately has no Serbs. So much for multiethnic Bosnia and about their tricks and their puppies and that nonsense of those people from that sort of thing or what's called the Igman Initiative. It is terrible that those in Serbia have many and never said a single word because the entire almost Serb population in Sarajevo has left. They never spoke a single word about a terrifying crime against the Serb people who lived in Sarajevo, but they always knew that Sarajevo was surrounded, that forest people bombed it and so on, although everyone knows well, whoever knew the configuration of the war in BiH that the very Serb positions were surrounded around Sarajevo, they had only one exit through Trebevic, and that is a notorous lie that is constantly being forced here. The Serbian people, I will repeat again, there are only traces in Sarajevo, but that's why many different from Kuwait, from Emirata, from where all of them are not, who are building portfolios in the former Serbian settlements, there are as many as you want. I don't want to go on about it, but, Mr. Atlagic, in any case, we can agree on that, Serbia will never leave its people west of Drina. Serbs west of Drina will always sooner understand Serbia as their country, which is completely natural, as their queen, will respect administratively what they must respect, BiH, because it exists as a state within some borders and we respect it. I certainly can't lie to myself or anything. If every Croat in BiH can vote in the Croatian elections and dream of being united with Croatia one day, and what would be forbidden for a Serb from Republika Srpska, even if he had a dream of living unitedly with Serbia one day, and if God hopes that we will ever allow them to vote in our elections because it is something that is completely natural and normal. But I don't want to get into it anymore. As far as the amendment is concerned, it's a very serious area, Mr. Mali. I'm afraid we don't take it seriously enough. We're here to focus on bitcoin. However, it's only one of the crypts. You have more and more in the world now. For example, I had a chance to meet an Austrian company, their representatives. They're making a special Cryptocurrency exclusively for football, and many world footballers promote so-called football. Sokerkoin, it doesn't matter. They have plans in the future that almost everyone in the football world is using that currency. In the future, all the stores and even paying will be moved online, and I'm afraid that we don't have enough clothes here to recognize a variety of malfeasances. Secondly, you can see today that a huge number, let's say Colloquially, the kids are trading in these crypts. I've only had one chance to meet a guy, a student. What do you live on, it says - I trade in crypts. The right to tell you is the only time I've ever met what that would mean. It says - I have a monthly allowance of about 750, 800 euros. Look, he's someone who trades at a small level, and you can imagine those who have huge companies how much money can be made through a cryptocurrency without hiding a tax, not paying anything. It's a serious problem where I'm afraid we don't have enough adequately dressed frame to track it. I also have to express my doubts about the very Internet trade itself, not only the crypts, but we generally don't have that adequate protection. We're pretty unprotected here. We don't protect our interactive skies, even though it's the future of the economy and we'd have to do more work there. That we don't talk about judicial authorities where I really don't think we have enough people or enough trained personnel to see what crimes are committed online in terms of that Internet trade. Speaking of the judiciary, I can see that for some other various crimes here, we obviously don't have prosecutors who want to work or watch, or stare at both eyes, without talking about terrifying pressures on the judiciary. Here, I have to admit, this morning I saw a scary lie that came out, which is that apparently at yesterday's VSS session, they deliberately released some media information, that apparently two judges left that VSS session, which is a notorious lie, no one left the session. But why did they make up that lie? Well, because someone demanded that one of the presidents of the court, i.e., in fact that the VSS in its statement be fenced from an interview given by the President of the Court for one portal, an obscenity portal, but apparently targeted for them, so that everyone would quote it afterwards. Now that interview he gave is more political. I don't mind, anyone who wants to deal with politics should go to the polls and run for office, so how many votes you get. It's a message to Majic and these others, people go to the polls, so as many votes as you get, go to the Assembly or run for president. You can't use it to abuse your office as judge or president of the court, and you give political statements, and then you get the support of certain media, and if someone puts pressure on the judiciary, then the media, N1, Nova S, KRIK, Direct rs, etc. So the greatest pressure on the judiciary comes from these media, they create affairs, they judge someone in advance, they invent affairs, and through that invention they put pressure on both the prosecution and the judges that they have to judge and do it constantly, and they complain that there's some kind of different pressure on the judiciary. No, they're the only ones who put pressure on the judiciary. And that's where we have to agree, the greatest pressure on the judiciary doesn't come from political circles at all, it comes from business circles. Those who have the greatest interest in judgment in their favour, etc., various tycoons, etc., are making the most of the pressure on the judiciary. It's 95% of the pressures from only business circles, political pressures can happen eventually if some president somewhere or some in local self-government is doing it, but you don't have any pressure from the executive, and there's this media, which is terrifying, where we have a constant insistence on certain affairs where events are invented, so that the prosecutor or judge would have to act, because in case the media doesn't act as it requires an experience in that media media media link. Now, that's how, unfortunately, you do it in practice today. I simply had to react here because we have to point out to the public that there was no abandonment of the VSS session by the judges, but, I say, it was targeted that such information was released, it was targeted to create such a lie in order to continuously pressure our judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1767	Thank you. Since we've completed our search under the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. We move to – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax Act on the Income of Citizens You have received an amendment submitted by the Government to the Bill of Law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1768	Thank you, Vice President. Since my intensity was to talk first of all about the previous amendment, in any case, I want to begin by commending the representatives of the government, the Ministry of Finance who had heard enough that all of these discussions that we had over the past two days in terms of amendments and all of the topics that we had in the previous two days included and that we are going with further improvements. At the very beginning, there's one thing technically I'd like to point out here. Namely, even when we have these discussions on amendments, given that we have the kind of information system, we as the MPs, and also the public of the Republic of Serbia cannot see the course of this debate, I have to notice as someone who is a longtime parliamentarian, I mean the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, that this information system is not only outdated, but it shows another thesis, which is that all those of the previous authorities, yellow, have touched. Well, that's exactly what this information system points to. I am asking you as chairman and all that in the next period of time we see this information system, not only because of the MPs, but also because of the public that we can participate in everything we can discuss in such sessions in a more transparent way. It is obvious that this was someone's good combination and that this information system when it was built here in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was intended to make the work of the National Assembly more transparent. Now, given that we are in the process of general digitisation, electronic administration and everything else, that all the legislation that we are adopting today is going in a direction that Serbia is finding on a broader scale as a country of digitisation. Serbian software is becoming a brand on the software market around the world. It is truly unquestionable that this process, which needs to be completed here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, should be improved. That's why I want to notice that everything they've touched has literally been ruined. We want to be transparent, we want to be more efficient in this kind of story and therefore the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia itself should go that way. I hope that these are not major funds, and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia himself asked Mrs. Brnabic to present an exposé, to find certain funds that would be, not for the benefit of the MPs alone, but primarily for the public of the Republic of Serbia in terms of monitoring everything that we have on the agenda. For this reason, I would refer a little bit to the previous amendment and say that all of this about security in terms of, say, fighting these new monsters, new crimes, new organised crime groups who in different and sophisticated ways are practically looking for ways to wash money, how to deal with certain crimes, that it is extremely important that and only the Ministry of Interior, we talked about yesterday, be better trained both technically and humanly. It is very difficult to monitor these trends and ways that all money can be washed and that certain criminal groups, through the execution of other crimes, obtaining certain illegal funds, invest through this electronic money, digital money and practically manage to circumvent certain legal procedures, and we must train our resources, primarily in the MUP, but also in the prosecutions to fight these types of crime. For this reason, I would just point out how important digitisation is in Serbian society and how important these trends are for revenue items in the budget. I'm just going to pull out one piece of information that's and how important it is, how important our Serbian software is, our people who do this job, how important they are, how much they contribute to the export of the Serbian economy. Only one data from the National Bank of Serbia that the average annual growth in IT technology exports was 21% between 2012 and 2019. For example, for the sake of comparisons, we had 312 million exports in 2011, and 1.42 billion euros in 2019. If we talk about 2020 and the trends we have in this year, marked by the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, we see that in the first six months this branch has not been touched by the pandemic, because it is extremely important to point out, here are these people who are frillers, who work from home, as well as everyone who works in IT companies across Serbia, who have countless numbers in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis. A huge number of young people work in the sector, they contribute. The state of Serbia, investing practically in digital infrastructure, in electronic administration, in all these models that we have today, allows this process to develop more and more. What are the perspectives of experts? They say Serbia could increase in the next ten years, in terms of exporting IT services to as much as 20 billion euros per year. Perspectives are huge, so every type of investment, every kind of denial in terms of and this legislation that we adopt here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia points out exactly that what we do is extremely good and not only is it good but it has an effect in these revenue items. It gives what may be most important, the possibility, if we can talk about it not only today, but in the next years where these exports will increase, that we will have an increasing and higher consumption of these items here, because the profits coming from this sector, the people who are doing this business are spending money in Serbia, increasing VAT, increasing space for other investments, increasing income space, for wages. Therefore, this is an extremely fruitful branch of the economy in both Serbia and in the next period of time it needs to invest more and more. Since I come to Republika Srpska and there have been a lot of topics here both BiH and Republika Srpska and what we have been able to hear these days that the Republic of Serbia has some claim from these Sarajevo quasi intellectual circles that in a common tone with Zagreb circles, with circles here from Belgrade from the circle of two, civil quasi elites, are practically blowing in the same trumpet. If you read different news from different portals, let me say from the region, you can practically see that the context is exactly the same. It's like they have one office. Here, in the context of this debate, I will ask if the claim made by the Republic of Serbia towards Republika Srpska is that Serbia has announced what 500 digital classrooms will deliver in the Republika Srpska education sector. Is this a contribution not only to Republika Srpska, but also to BiH? Is this the claim in which the state of Serbia invests in kindergartens, schools, bridges, in which Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs and all others living in BiH, who do not plead as one of the three constituent peoples? Is that the claim in which we give, and on the other hand from Sarajevo we get such a message, we get in a political sense, a rhetorical sense, only slaps and insults. Our hand, a hand from Belgrade, a hand from Banja Luka and delivered towards Sarajevo in that sense the story of co-operation. People who, here in this sector of the digital industry and everything else need to be the drivers of these changes, stories of people coming from the economy should be the administration of those people who will start new processes, and outdated policies, retrograde policies, party policies of Democratic Action, son of Ali Izetbegovic, Bakir Izetbegovic, and in these elections in BiH, defeated. Therefore, the future is focused on creating a new value, the future is oriented in this direction, which implies that we create new unions, customs unions, a union where markets and capital and labour and education markets, recognition of diplomas and everything else, employment, in these areas, will practically give the opportunity no matter where they live in the Western Balkans from Croatia and all the way down to Albania, to have space to impose themselves on the single market, practically competitive competition. There is no claim here that one country can put in a better position, there is simply one game in which the market that will be significantly greater in this area will contribute individually to each country and there is no Serbia's claim to anyone. For that reason, I thank the Ministry of Finance for all the things they've brought out these days. I believe that we have created serious preconditions for Serbia to protect its interests and that all those who have said in the past time period that we do not have plans, that we reject them every day and that Serbia will become stronger and stronger in the coming time period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1769	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. I am convinced that your words have been conveyed transparently to the citizens of Serbia in direct transmission. The word has a folk letter from Mrs Jelena Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1770	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Ministers, Mr. Mali with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia. Today, an amendment has been tabled before us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, which proposes extending the measures implemented in 2020, and concerns tax incentives for newly established enterprises and companies in the Republic of Serbia and thus tax incentives based on the earnings of newly employed workers. This kind of incentive has produced results in the previous year, and therefore this amendment to the government in which this type of incentives is being encouraged by the economy continues to be absolutely supportive. New start-ups have the opportunity to make tax reliefs in the period until 31 December 2020, i.e. if they are established during that period and for a period of 36 months, and certainly employee earnings relate to the salary of up to 150,000 dinars, and if earnings are higher than 150,000 dinars, then tax incentives relate to the maximum amount of earnings of up to 150,000 dinars. Given that these measures have produced results in the previous period and will be implemented in this year. The state of Serbia has a clear goal of encouraging this way to increase the employment of its citizens and, on the other hand, to reduce the grey economy, i.e. that all citizens of Serbia currently in the so-called state. The grey zone will be translated into official staff status. This is only one set of measures that the government of the Republic of Serbia carried out in the previous period, which it plans to carry out continuously in 2021. Despite the global economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, I dear colleagues must remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has so far allocated six billion euros to help its citizens and businesses in the Republic of Serbia. Given that in each public budget of the Republic of Serbia, the basic and main incomes of taxes are, you have a tax exemption for such measures, we can say that only a healthy, stable and strong economy can bear it. Such a healthy, stable and strong economy has the state of Serbia, thanks to SNS policy and President Aleksandr Vukic, who implemented the reform and ensured such a healthy economy. All public investments invested in the Republic of Serbia, and I must point out that for public investments, i.e. capital investments in the budget for 2021, 330 billion dinars are defined, all these investments in the Republic of Serbia on the one hand encourage, as Minister Mali himself said, encourage the private sector to invest and develop in our country. If we build and build new highways, new schools, hospitals, railways, industrial parks, on the one hand we encourage the growth of the economy, which is why we employ new people, and on the other hand we encourage the economy to invest significantly in the Republic of Serbia. As evidence of work so far and the results of the Republic of Serbia, we can certainly point out the external trade growth of the entire region of Šumadija, where an external trade exchange of 1.6 billion dinars has been achieved in the past 10 months, representing Serbia's largest regional surplus of 350m euros in the Shumadija region. It is just another proof that the responsible SNS policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic is certainly developing Serbia regionally. If we go deeper into the region of Šumadija, for example for the municipalities of Knić, where I come from, it is a municipality of 36 villages located in the territory of Šumadija, surrounded by four cities of Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Cačak and Milanovac, this municipality has managed to build 93.3km of asphalt roads for the last four years, responsible for SNS policy and continued support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The municipality of Knic managed to renovate almost all hospitals and infirmarys in its territory, reconstruct almost all schools, expand the network of preschool institutions into six other villages on its territory, implement a complete reform and education strategy in the Republic of Serbia. If I tell you that in 2016, Knic municipality introduced drinking water into 10 of its schools for the first time in the 21st century, and today, after four years, responsible SNS and President Aleksandr Vukic and the huge support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today all these schools have phonolaboratory facilities, modernly equipped kitchens with nutritionists, they have programs financed from the Serbian budget, through logos, sometoped, English since the third year in our villages learns in our kindergartens. In this way, SNS policy shows, not only to contribute to the regional development of our country, but to think about all its citizens and thoughts, above all, about our children and our future. This investment in villages, our villages, as well as agriculture, where for the last four years the municipality of Knić has provided significant subsidies for its agricultural holdings. I will also give you information that there are about 6,000 registered agricultural holdings in the entire region of Šumadija, of which 4,000 in the municipality of Knić and that Knić municipality for implementing the measures of population policy, through its agriculture and significant subsidies for young people and for the remaining of young people in the country, has managed to provide for 800 subsidies for the development of agriculture to its citizens. Thus, as well as giving advantage to women who are holding agricultural land by 30% increased the number of women holding agricultural land. As a reward for its results, the municipality of Knic was also awarded a few days ago, and this way I would like to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, the award for the biggest incentive in the development of gender equality at the local level in Knic municipality. The municipality of Knic is only one of the five municipalities that received such a prize, but certainly for one rural environment, which is in the third category of development, these steps are significant moves for Serbia to move forward. What I would particularly like to point out is that future investments that will take place in our forest region will significantly improve and improve this image as we do today. The construction of a highway that stretches mostly through the municipality of Kinić, which connects Corridor 10 with the Moravia Corridor, as well as the proximity of the Brodjevci airport where the centre of the kargo opening is planned, will certainly speed up new investments in the municipality of Knic, and thus the location and development of our municipality will be put on the map of future investors. What I would particularly point out is that thanks to this policy of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS, where Serbia is developing regionally, where Serbia thinks about its villages, where Serbia continuously invests in education, in its youngest, it is certainly the right path for SNS and the path for Serbia to move forward. Long live Knic, lived Šumadija, lived Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1771	I thank you, Mrs. Obradovic, and I congratulate you on your first presentation at the National Assembly. Of course, and all congratulations to the municipality of Knic on the results achieved and won awards. The word has a folk MP, Ugljesa Mrdić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1772	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, respected MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, one of the largest forms of patriotism is the regular payment of taxes. We have had opportunities these days to hear the excellent presentations of the Serbian Government's representatives, primarily the finance minister of Cynthia Mali and my fellow MPs, how important all these laws are, which we will vote on in the Voting Day. But on the one hand, we have a situation where the current state-of-the-art leadership led by Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia advocates compliance with the law, respect for taxes, good tax policy, and on the other hand we had a situation where individuals, such as Dragan Gilas and his associates, were not in favour of respect of the law. So I received in the eyes of this session a response from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office for criminal charges filed by Vračar City Municipality four years ago against the head of Vračar City Municipality and the business space of Vračar Municipality until 2016. Just to remind you, we are talking about keeping property, paying taxes, good financial policy, and this former management of the municipality and business space is due to the fact that five and a half million euros from the business space are not charged, which is not known to be a trail of over 5,000 squares of business space in downtown Belgrade at Vračar and that we have a controversial and missing 172 apartments and about 100 more apartments, which is still being explored today. Therefore, this time I would like to commend the prosecutor's response, which announced that More Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade has launched an investigation against former leaders of the Vracar municipality's business space, Mihajla Samofalov, Aleksandar Djurasinovic, Vladimir Medakovic and Svetlana Trijudic, for the criminal act of abuse of official position. The investigation is ongoing. Also, according to the prosecutor's office, Branimir Kuzmanovic, Tijan Blagojevic, Aleksandar Ivanovic and Mirjan Djordjevic, an investigative process is under way to collect the necessary information from the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, followed by the First Department of the Criminal Police Administration. By the way, mentioned Kuzmanovic, Tijana Blagojevic, Ivanovic and Djordjevic were people who, during the time when Dragan Djilas was the mayor of Belgrade and head of the DS City Committee in Belgrade, led the Vracar municipality. I don't want to put pressure on either the D.A.'s office or the D.A.'s office, but I sincerely hope it's not just gonna stay on this that the investigation is under way, that there's gonna be a trial, so let's find out who's guilty and who's not. Also, on this occasion, I demand that the Prosecutor's Office, as it has responded so well together with the criminal police in the case of these Vracar municipality leaders and the business space, suspected of serious malfeasances, therefore we are talking about dozens of millions of euros here, I also hope that the same will take place in the case of Dragan Djilas, that it will also react in the case of Mladjan Djordjevic, that it will respond in the case of Vuk Jeremic. The prosecution should be independent, but the prosecution should also preserve the property of the Serbian state. We're free here to adopt these laws, if these laws don't apply and if they're not the same for everyone. President Aleksandar Vukic said on several occasions that there are no protections as far as tax payments are concerned. Everyone has to pay their taxes. Also, all have to comply with the law, and these former heads of Vračar municipality and business space, but also Dragan Gilas. I hope that one day we will get this answer from the D.A., that during the investigation and investigation activities regarding the business of Dragan Gilas, 619m euros and many other things he has done together with his associates. Here, now we hear he included Brother Gok. I also expect that the Prosecutor's Office will give us an answer as to what the Prosecutor's Office has done about the allegations made by Caba Der, which Milenko Jovanovic spoke on several occasions and fellow Alexander Martinovic, who told the investigating authorities that two criminal clans had offered him money to liquidate President Aleksandar Vukic. And that's where the D.A.'s office is supposed to react, listen to Chaba and listen to all those who publicly admit to being criminal clans and get huge money to liquidate the first man of the state. Finally, I must refer to this topic concerning the Republic of Serbia. As someone who was born in Republika Srpska, and as a boy, came to Belgrade, the Serbian capital, the capital of all Serbs wherever they live, I must point out that I publicly condemn all these procedures that work and various Igmanic initiatives, Mladjan Djordjevic, Djilas and Balša Bozovic and many others, both in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the region, who want to bring down Republika Srpska, who want Kosovo and Metohija not to be part of Serbia. The only strong Republika Srpska is if it is strong Serbia, and Serbia is strong only if the laws are respected, and if Serbia is led by President Aleksandar Vukic. Serbia has now proved and proved that in Serbia, everyone lives fine, that both Serbs and Bosniaks and Hungarians and all other national minorities live in Serbia. It is the same in Republika Srpska. We must not allow Republika Srpska to be destroyed, now that it is 25 years of the Dayton Agreement. We have to keep peace in the region. That is why the agreement between the Serbian government and the Council of Ministers of Albania on the Mini Schengen is excellent, the free journey of citizens. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic once again proved to be for peace in the region. But don't come to the situation that we are the only peace in the region, and we want to abolish Republika Srpska, take Cosmet and destroy Serbia. We are for peace in the region, but we are also for the survival of Republika Srpska and for strengthening Serbia and Republika Srpska's ties, and for strengthening the interests of the Serbian state and of KIM and helping Serbs wherever they live. In order for Serbia to help the Republic of Serbia, and the southern Serbian province of KIM, and the Serbian people wherever they live, we must have a budget for it, and in order to have a budget we must pay taxes. It's patriotism. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1773	Thank you, Mr. Gristle. Thank you for sharing important information with us. It is always good to know when the questions raised by MPs and doing so in a formal manner, as prescribed, we receive appropriate reactions or answers from institutions. Regarding these questions that you spoke about today, and the answers that you and Mr. Bakarec received, for this last one, yesterday, Mr. Mirkovic spoke about the answer he received to his parliamentary question, as regards the direct statement by Chaba Dera, in which he announced that two criminal clans had received, practically, orders to execute the physical liquidation of Alexander Vukic. That's what MP Mirkovic was talking about yesterday at late afternoon, although it did happen when we were not in direct transmission, so it is a matter of how familiar the public is with that answer. Thank you again for underlining the importance of these questions. Mr. Mirkovic, I see that you are in the system of declared word, you will be given a word, only before that is the word of the People's MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1774	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, reporting by amendment. Tax pay is a legal obligation, a cornerstone of economic stability, and any other stability of any society and state. What I want to point out is that, unfortunately, we still have a gray economy and where we have people who have worked in companies for several years and haven't paid a job internship, they have a problem achieving their legal right to retire. So this is where we expect a more restrictive policy from the state, because the rights of workers were very often spoken by our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic. Also, I would like to point out, since I have now answered and to refer to the Minister the question why the economic assistance package did not include religious communities, because religious communities except explicitly, religious officials have other systems in their portfolio, such as the education system, the media system and other activities. There's a large number of people working and making personal incomes. I think this package should help cover them, too. It's an important segment of our society, and I think we should send a positive message to them that way. I want to look back at the public service and use this call. What I must point out is that as the strongest Bosniak party, as a parliamentary party, as another minority party in power, I would take advantage of this opportunity to ask them how they choose guests, which means, by which means, as a parliamentary party that has a vice-president in the last few years, we may have been hosting two or three times? And also, what I want to point out is that it's unacceptable that we don't have an editorial in the Bosnian language and the explanation they gave, questioning our identity, and among other things, part of our identity is our Bosnian language, through the answer of the programming council, is absolutely unacceptable. Now you are asking from 150,000 people who have declared on the list that they speak also in Bosnian language to pay you a subscription, and you do not allow them what the Constitution and the Law of the Republic of Serbia guarantee. So we absolutely need public service, absolutely necessary for this public service to be reformed primarily from the inside. How? By adapting its programming scheme to all citizens and citizens living in the Republic of Serbia, and reminding me that one third of the citizens and citizens living in the Republic are minority communities, minority people and that through the programme, it should be adapted to culture, customs, traditions, religious identity through this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1775	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1776	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Before I begin my presentation, Mr. Orlic, I want to thank you for having insight into the seriousness of the situation and the answers we received from the D.A. and for noting that the thing I was talking about yesterday and speaking about, unfortunately, did not go live in the RTS transmission. I believe that such serious things must be heard, not only in this room, but all citizens must hear and remain, because some of the things that have been happening in the last few months, and especially in the last two months or three, have to come to every citizen of Serbia, because this is a situation that has been provoked by people who today at all costs, at all costs and human lives want to return to power. The atmosphere in which we are present today, where it is almost normal to threaten Alexander Vukic on a daily basis, was also sparked by Dragan Djilas, and Vuk Jeremic, and Bosko Obradovic and the entire click that was in some Alliance for Serbia by yesterday. After that, they turned, I think, into a united opposition to Serbia, and as they cannot agree on the already imaginary chairs shared between them, I see that they are fighting again today, and that Vuk Jeremic is suggesting the end of the Party of Freedom and Justice of Dragan and Gilas, now requires some kind of apology, and I think that, the Democratic Party of his, to the almost party, is called a political corpse, I think that term has been used. It depicts, dear citizens, how sick their desire to get their hands on the authorities, but the atmosphere they've been sparking where they're threatening Alexander Vukic's son, shows just how sick their hatred for all people who don't think like them and who managed to get Serbia out of the darkest economic crisis that hit us in the period when they were in power. As for all the amendments, and what we discussed yesterday, finances are something that is most fundamental, but finances clearly show that there was no responsible policy of the Serbian Progressive Party and that there were no painful reforms that we took over seven years ago, the question today is to welcome this crown crisis, but the question is whether we would have where to pay for salaries and pensions. This is directly responsible for the people I mentioned earlier, and is directly responsible for Dragan Gilas, who used the time to provide his and his companies with 619m euros in revenue, to make him the richest man in this part of Europe, who put 74,000 euros in politics, his wife's house and his old car, and when he reported his property only in real estate, he reported 25m euros. If you take into account that the salary at his posts that was numerous during that period and the Democratic Party regime was about 100,000 dinars per month, the question arises, and every citizen in Serbia wonders – how and how could he acquire that wealth? Not to mention that in recent weeks, we've been witnessing that his brother has more than 35 properties that are estimated at five and a half million euros, that we're not getting into how close their associates are, and from some failed politicians, failed entrepreneurs have become everything and saints in our country. What we have to pay attention to, what we have to talk about when we talk about all these things, is the fact that people who have so much money, who have so much power, create an atmosphere in a society where no one even wonders anymore, doesn't wonder, or looks back at when, on social networks or in certain shows, it's perfectly normal to comment that Alexander Vukic should experience a tragic end, that it will wait not only for him, but for his family, his parents, and also the son of Vulcan, who seems to me, is three and a half years old. Now, these are the things we have to fight. It doesn't matter if it's Alexander Vucic, we can't let such things become normal and be directed to any Serbian citizen. It's not normal for such things to be said, threatened, or threatened by people just because they don't think of themselves as the richest people in our country. Accordingly, I must admit, as I said yesterday, I am surprised, I am pleasantly surprised by the quick reaction of the prosecution which has responded to my question on December 8th and sent an answer that I want all the MPs to hear, but primarily the citizens of Serbia. So: “In connection with the notice request and the explanation on which MP Aleksandar Mirkovic presented at the National Assembly session on 8 December 2020, we would like to inform you that the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime is taking certain actions to obtain information on the statement given by Cabba Der. “ Dear citizens of Serbia, it is not Aleksandar Mirkovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, or any of my colleagues, who has not invented anything, who has not lied, when from this room we have appealed to the competent institutions to give us an answer whether they have examined the allegations of Caba Dera who himself admitted to the Hungarian investigative authorities that from even two mob organisations he has received an offer to kill Alexander Vukic. So no one invented these things. For days they've been trying to make some kind of joke, make a comedian. Two TVs under the direct command of Dragan Gilas have tried in every way to discredit President Aleksandar Vukic's security issue. The question is, why would they want to do that? And if we don't get an answer to the question, the citizens of Serbia know it. But now the question is raised for all of us as a society, not just as a people's MPs – until when will we be silent about these phenomena in our country? How long are we going to keep quiet about what people think is normal that someone should take their lives just because they belong to one or another political party? And you see, my answer, i.e. The answer I received, and my question I asked, none of those two media outlets directly influenced by Dragan Gilas. Neither did his portal, but he used it for his own tirad and attempt to discredit every issue of the security of President Aleksandr Vukic. Here, now, from this place, I'm glad we're live on the broadcast, which will bring this question and the answer to a large number of Serbian citizens, and I'm asking these media -- will you pass on to your media what the prosecution has given as your answer? Now, if you don't trust us, will you trust the authorities and the prosecution that recognized this as a serious threat and a serious problem? If anyone has criticism and regrets about the prosecution's work, it's mostly me and my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, because we think they still have a lot of work to do when it comes to Dragan Gilas and his enormous wealth. But here you can see that while I often criticize them, realizing the seriousness of the situation in which we are and where President Alexander Vukic's safety is at stake, they respond. I hope that in the coming period I will never again be able to ask from this place or any other competent institutions whether they are dealing with threats that come at the expense of President Alexander Vukic and his family, but I also hope that I will never be able to ask the question whether anyone will turn around and refer to threats that any of Serbia's citizens receive just because they are working, thinking or politically acting the opposite of what the self-proclaimed elite or the richest people in Serbia consider normal or correct. This question is a question of all questions. Because in Serbia, rights are guaranteed to everyone and all citizens are equal. But it seems that the only one who is not equal and whose rights as a citizen are ruthlessly broken from day to day is Alexander Vukic. Something like that is absolutely inadmissible and such things in our country are unimaginable. If anyone thinks that this way will scare either Alexander Vukic or us who represent the Serbian Progressive Party, they are wrong. True, justice and the fight for better tomorrow our children, generations that come and for better tomorrow Serbia, have no price and are our top priority. That's why I call on all the people in our country, first of all this part of the opposition that claims to come to power without citizens' support, to turn to arguments, to turn to results, plan and programme, if any plan and programme have. When I say -- the results, they have nothing to boast about, but at least now let them do so that they offer something better to the citizens, so let the citizens decide whether they are to fail, destroy Serbia, what they have given them by 2012, or for the programme of progress, the constant improvement of living standards and better living conditions in Serbia and the complete development of our country, which is offered by the Serbian Progressive Party. So let the election be in two years, let the citizens decide for themselves what future they want. Once again, I urge everyone to respect each other, to respect each other and to turn to a common goal, which is a better life for our children and generations to come. And that from my point of view, and from the point of view of citizens who have given unequivocal support to the SNS in the past elections, is the policy of Alexander Vukic and the government of Serbia. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1777	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. So, you're right, it's not at all or it's not the only issue of ignoring a relationship like this, but also of trying, it's about trying to openly discredit a serious issue such as the issue of the personal security of the president of the state and members of his family. You must have noticed that. The media you were talking about did so at the same time or in the same place that they were at the most ground floor, most of all possible to say at the expense of the National Assembly. The same people did it in the same place. And that they don't like us or the National Assembly, it's just a small part of the problem or just no problem with this other, much more important issue. So someone's desire to discredit, to degrade the subject of their country's personal security, the personal security of their family members, is no less serious than the fact that criminal organisations ordered someone's murder, ordered the murder of the president of the state. What are the motives for wanting to belittle something like that as a subject? It's a serious question, and I think you lit it right. Thank you for speaking openly in the National Assembly. The word has been given by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1778	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Dragan Gilas is the biggest evil that has hit Serbia in the last 50 years, Serbia's biggest thief has not seen, the larger criminal city of Belgrade has not seen, I will repeat that word they do not like to hear from the chairman, the bigger scum and the bastard citizens of Serbia and Belgrade have not met at some leading place, especially in Belgrade's place. Dragan Gilas could by any chance, unfortunately, be back at the helm of anything in Serbia, he would most like to be Nero, the new Nero. As Nero set Rome on fire, this one would set Belgrade on fire to kill all those who are his insatiable. Most of them are such, convincing majority, that some one or two percent of those who agree with him and that they can go on uninterruptedly where he left off, when he was forced to vote with the authorities, continue to empty the full register filled with these evil, illiterate, disgusting advances, those ugly and illiterate citizens, and the ignorant in the government, you uneducated, you with bought diplomas, and they so elite, so educated, so smart, so over-smart filled their pockets with 619 million. If you look that today Belgrade Mayor's salary is 120,000 dinars, then think about what Dragan Gilas and his brother used to be a favorite toy when he was a kid and what else he wanted to get from Santa Claus. Here comes New Year's Eve. Dragan Gilas and Bata Gojko wanted the most to get a digitron, so they can multiply how much some leading salary is in some position, say Belgrade Mayor, how many years in power it takes to get 619m euros. Of course, they would justify it today, if they were lucky in power, so they would say, "We need to live our lives." It takes a lifetime for Brother Gok and tycoon Dragan Gilas to pay 120 years for them to earn that kind of money. Lucky for us, they weren't in power for long enough, but they were long enough for these scars to last today, that smelly trail of thieving, and we see criminal ties... So, not only was it stolen, that tenders, combinations were being staged, that cities were being made careful, that various nonsense had to be made that the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia had to pay for years after their departure from power would continue to pay the debts they had left, but they would sit back and come back again, so now one of their best friends and allies is this particular Chaba. We're not satisfied, I'm not just satisfied with the answer to being investigated, I can't be satisfied with that. I want to hear as well as the citizens watching this transmission as to who these clans are, who are these bastards, who are those behind the screen, behind the curtain in the dark, somewhere along with Gilas, Jeremic, Bosca, Nog and some unknown tweeters are making plans to overthrow Alexander Vukic. The murder of Alexander Wolfich and his children and his family? Who are your monsters? It's not enough to say there's an investigation going on. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We want those people who call for the murder of Alexander Vukic, the president of the state arrested, arrested, held in custody, to speak to the bastards who gave them the money to do it. We're not going to listen to stories of an investigation for life. What kind of investigation? The result is interested in citizens, those 62% who voted for Alexander Vukic. The result is interested in our children who want to stay and live in this country. Those kids have the right to the truth. These children have the right to hear who wants to take their future again, who wants to open the border to them, but in one direction, not to be tourists, but to be adventurers, to go into the unknown, to go somewhere else, and to think that someone loves them more, because they don't have people in their own country who love them and who want their future to be safe, safe and peaceful. These kids want to read something in the paper educationally, not obituaries, not announcements of murders, not announcements of liquidations, not of who blew up who bombed where and to conduct an investigation. What's Zagorka Dolovac doing? He's sitting on a cannabete in the morning at Dragan Gilas and making arrangements until he's supposed to keep his mouth shut or he'll do his job or we'll hear how it's possible to make 619 million dinars a month. Private companies? Okay. How did they do it when they were so capable? Why didn't they until they were in power, why didn't you do all those millions when you were so smart? Are we all crazy here, so we don't have tens of thousands, not hundreds of millions? Are there people sitting in the government who don't know anything, so they don't have fairies, dozens of apartments and angry cars? Are Serbian citizens so uneducated that they can't buy an apartment for 50 years? No, someone robbed them, stole them, kidnapped them. How can a normal man not get upset about it? How do you stay private? How do you explain to your child that it's normal to have a thousand-euro salary and that you can't buy him an apartment as easily as Dragan Gilas and his brother Gojko, the unhappy, poor one? Forty properties in the city's closest center, so he usurps the garage, man usurped everything he came in, usurped our lives, and now he's messing with all of us through his portals. He calls, in his, uh, humorous shows, mocking young SNS MPs. For what? That's why one of them told the truth -- that our schools didn't have the bathroom done right during the one that took care of free textbooks and free schools. Why didn't he let the kids have soap at school? Why didn't he give them benches, computers? No, he allowed his children, his women, his brother-in-laws to deal drugs, sell to children in the schoolyards, and she distracts Nebojsa Stefanovic with record drug confiscation while he was running the MAP, so they're in the way of reality programs. He's the greatest realist, realist bastard. He brought Big Brother to Serbia, so he wanted to be a big brother. Serbian citizens said a lot in the election, man, more. Are you a little 619 million? Six hundred nineteen years in prison isn't enough for him to justify that 619 million, to serve it. Why didn't we have highways in Serbia? What now in record number, in miles, hundreds of kilometers, are built highways, bridges? What are hospitals rebuilding, building new hospitals, schools? The infectious clinic couldn't rebuild. Nobody's invested a dime since it was made. It stood for 80 years and collapsed. It's not enough to do something, but you have to cultivate it, to rebuild it, to keep it safe. No, you kept that when they leave the government, they can say, what did you do with the Infectious Clinic? They were in trouble with a fountain in Belgrade. They're distracted by Stefan Nemanja. What's the matter with them? They make fun of everything. Make a hospital, what do they need a hospital for? Do school, what do you need school for? They don't need it, of course. What do they need school for? To them, the digitron was enough. All the brains they've got fit into that one digitron. Minus, plus, divided and times. That's enough, four computer operations, and they don't need more than that. They don't need banks, they don't need anything. A shifter to replace what they have and the end of the story. Where'd you get that money, people? How do you get 619 million? Why does the D.A. keep quiet about these things? What, are we here repeating like parrots a story, singing backwards for years, talking about Gilas what he stole? And the D.A.'s office, what he's doing, we're running an investigation. How far did the investigation go? Wake up, people. He organises criminal gangs and groups in the region to kill the president of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, because it is the only chance and opportunity for them to re-emerge in Serbia. Ruše and SPC, the Metropolitans, the clergy of the SPC, every day is under attack, everything in Serbia is under attack, the military, all these institutions in which the people in Serbia have the most trust, in the church, in the military, in the police, in the president of the Republic, all of this needs to be torn down, we need nothing. He doesn't need it, he's got his own private soldiers with guns and bombs, they do what they want, and they show it also record drug and weapons and everything that this Chaba Der said, and we want to hear who he is, who is that head behind plans to kill Alexander Vukic? Is it Dragan Gilas, or together with Gojka or someone else, along with them, because many outside people are disturbed by strong Serbia, because outside too, it bothers some to help Serbs in the region? One part of the family from Glamoc, part from Kosovo, and I can't speak emotionally about it all. Part of the family was expelled from Pristina, part of Bosnia. When my great-grandfather was asked from Bosnia what it's like in Bosnia, he says how to be in Bosnia, it's the hardest thing to be a Serb in Bosnia. In the 1960s, it was difficult for Serbs at the time, and imagine that for Serbs today in Bosnia, Herzegovina, Republika Srpska. How is it when people in Banja Luka listen, read the newspaper every day and see that someone threatens them with war, when they cannot maintain the best possible relationship with their brothers through the Drina. Serbia needs to be isolated.? Well, it won't, Serbia has President Alexander Vukic, and that's the problem today. Serbia has a problem with some of the great powers it wants to lift the Republika Srpska, to ban Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija, but it will not succeed, because Serbia has no stand for it. The weak foothold they have in Serbia, they have Dragan Gilas, it's not enough, but Aleksandar Vukic has a people, the people have Alexander Vukic and Serbia will continue to win as long as it continues to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1779	Thank you. Since MPs were asking questions, the remaining time for the debate of the parliamentary group “Alexander Vukic – For our children” is just over 120 minutes, so you have more than enough time to continue the debate. Since we've completed the debate under the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. We move on to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. You have received the amendment submitted by the Government to the bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending in the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by MP Stefan Srbanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1780	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, laid the foundation in India two days ago for the construction of Tojo Tyres factory, a Japanese investor, and this is the largest Japanese investment in Serbia. It is an investment worth 382m euros and will employ more than 560 workers in India and President Vukic said that we have indeed managed to win and bring this factory to Serbia. Competition between Poland, the city of Gdanjska and some other countries. And it's no wonder we won, at least in my own court, because in the past, we're used to winning. We're used to winning as far as attracting foreign direct investment. We're used to winning the state of our public finances, our budget. As for reduced unemployment, economic growth, where we are the first in Europe to predict next year, all of these are victories and all of this is the result of one responsible and serious policy led by the state summit. I think we heard a lot yesterday when it comes to an agreement that Serbia is signing with Albania, as regards the free passage of the citizens of the two countries at border crossings. Whoever wanted to hear it heard the essence of the whole agreement. I am now asking all of you here, asking all the citizens of Serbia, what is so strange about this Agreement, and what is it that bothers everyone so much, which is the point of this agreement, where it is said that Serbia has a tendency to some kind of imperialism, that Serbia has a tendency to create a "great Serbia" or Yugoslavia? The agreement only provides free flow of goods, services, capital and citizens of the countries mentioned. Isn't that the basis and the pillar and what the EU is resting on? What's the problem? What is the problem with “the little Schengen ”? In that we want to build, with our neighbours in the region, even better neighbourly relations and to participate together in solving some problems, to fight together, if you will, and against the crown of the virus. I don't think there's any problem here, essentially. I think the biggest problem is that one such initiative and one such proposal comes from Serbia and specifically the president, Aleksandr Vukic. I think that's the biggest problem. I think the biggest problem for all of them is that Serbia stands out as the hub of regional co-operation, which is logical, given that by the number of inhabitants we are the most human in the area of the former Yugoslavia and that we show our economic and financial results that we need to and must be the headquarters. On that road, we also invited Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Montenegro, a country that changed power in the previous period, which, among other things, because of the voices of Serbs, has exhausted its freedom and brought new power to Montenegro. I just have to remind all those who forget that at that time the representatives of the Serbs were arrested, that their families were arrested, that their loved ones were arrested, that their dwellings were searched. They were good back then. When they were supposed to gather the Serbian people around them and surprise that victory, they were good. Now they're called all kinds of names and it's really something that's unacceptable and unacceptable. We want the best possible relations with Montenegro, and I hope that the new government will have understanding and will work in that direction. It bothers a lot of people and that we're helping our countrymen across the region. You know, when Serbia is strong, certainly the population living in Serbia, living outside Serbia's borders, is certainly strong. You know, when Serbia invests in Republika Srpska, when it invests in some parts of the Federation of BiH, such as Drvar, Grahovo and Glamoc, when it builds a Serbian house in Montenegro, when it singles out major financial resources for its population and for its countrymen at KIM, it bothers someone. It bothers them because Serbia thus shows its strength, shows that it is ready, that it is capable and no longer on its knees, that it is simply a country that has managed to solve some of its problems within its borders, and that it is helping its countrymen in the region afterwards. It's true that everything has changed. We changed first of all and made a paradigm of failure a paradigm of success and hope that we could be even stronger and better in the future. And that's the essence of our policy. These days we see that certain parts of the opposition unite around some platforms and some suggestions that they will perform together in the upcoming dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, which is nothing strange to me, and none of us needs to be surprised, because they will eventually all unite, agree. They will agree and unite with only one goal, one wish, and that is to defeat SNS and Alexander Vukic. He will also have support on the road for some Europarliamentaries, he will have support and his media on the road, he will also have support for the region, but he will not have only one support, only one support will praise them, which is the support of Serbian citizens. In 2012 Serbian citizens who said what they thought of them and sent them into political forgetfulness and history, because they remember this people living until 2012, how they lived, how much unemployment was, where our public finances were, what an international reputation we had then, and many more, many more things. Mr. Minister, I really wanted to thank you all for being here with us all these days, for presenting in the best possible way and the budget that we've passed and all these laws and for having been heard from, to hear all our questions and to answer us. You have indeed shown one responsible and true relationship to the MPs here and to this high house at all. I'd also like to congratulate you once again on all the results you've achieved in the previous period, because you know this crisis, which is a global crisis, caused by the pandemic of the corona virus around the world, has left consequences. We have already paid four minimum earnings to all businesses for this year, thus preserving jobs, five. Today, tomorrow, aid will be paid to pensioners in the form of 5,000 dinars. There's no need to talk about how much it means to them and for the upcoming holidays and all. We are also expected to raise salaries and pensions in the following year. These are truly results that must be respected and that must be recognized. I want you to have enough knowledge, energy and desire to lead the Ministry of Finance in the best possible way and that we are all expected to have a lot of success in the coming years ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1781	Thank you, Mr. Srbanovic. On this particular subject that you were talking about yesterday, one was held in the National Assembly, I would say, a very good session of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region where these issues were just being discussed and the authentic political representatives of Serbs from the region participated. Mr. Mile Labudovic, as well as the President of the Joint Council of the municipalities, Mr. Jeremic from Vukovar, head of Republika Srpska's office in Belgrade, Mr. Mladen Cicovic, and they all said, it seems to me, important and valuable things which, unfortunately, are usually happening with those contents that are affirmative for our country and which are positive, do not get too much space in the mainstream media, because here seems good content, good news for the media is not attractive and uninteresting. Too bad it was because there was an opportunity to hear what the Republic of Serbia is successfully funding today for the needs of our people throughout the region. Who knows, it may have bothered the media the most that all three important friends are and as the president of the Committee said yesterday, it is too much to say to the guests, because they are here on their own ground and in their home, too, that difference of relationship has officially been noted by Serbia to its countrymen and felt the moment that the custody of our country was taken over by Aleksandar Vukic, that is, when his policy had the opportunity to show its results. That's what happened. Maybe it bothered the media, and that's why they didn't hear too much about it yesterday. I see he's in the O.R. and the chairman of the board. Maybe today he wants to share a word with us on the subject. The next reported word is MP Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1782	My dear Vice President, Professor Orlic, dear ministers, respected citizens and dear colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that this third day passes in a useful debate and that we are finally among the countries that will use crypts in the coming and coming times ahead. And I personally congratulated the minister, Mr. Sinisha, because let's say a country like Belarus is already five years old and why would we be some exception when it's useful and drags the entire economy, the economy, and it will speed up investment. As for the debate that was on this Mali Shengen and the signing of the agreement with Albania, I fully support it because it is extremely useful and this fear that Serbia will dominate, so Serbia has to dominate, it has always dominated and Serbia has been the only country in the whole of the universe before new countries such as Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Macedonia, even Albania, and so on. It should not be forgotten that Serbia is a 623rd-century state, from the seventh century and Serbia, to be the engine of development throughout the region. Whether it looks like the former Yugoslavia is another thing, but I can only say something – God forbid all these countries in this region reach that standard and that life and prosperity that was once in that Yugoslavia. I will gladly welcome one such day if that happens. Serbia's great advantage over other countries in the environment is its leader, Serbian President, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, from it all begins. Whatever they're looking at, so-called. The opposition we mention here every day, I practically don't see them, and when I talk to them, I always have the same question – what do you suggest, what do you have new to offer Serbia. We're not like the ruling majority here against any of your useful suggestions. That only an abnormal man would refuse something useful, smart and good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, there's nothing, except looking for President Vukic's shift and the government's shift. It can happen and only happen by the will of the people, by the will of the voters, not on the street. If we just go back a little bit, it doesn't take much, let's see, he said before my esteemed colleague, Serb Filipovic, how they, behold, were a little in power and did a lot of damage. The Serbs are young and here are all MPs, so mostly young, but it is not necessary to forget 12 years of their rule, 12 years of obstruction, robbery, crime, kidnapping, dear colleagues, 12 years of age, that's a huge time. It takes us 24 years to correct what they did in 12 years. First, the destruction of financial infrastructure, the sale of all banks in depravity, the sale of all real estate, the biggest businesses. Be careful, they boasted at the time, ministers and prime ministers and the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and that G17, all of them, boasted that they had sold 5,000 companies for 2,000,000,000 euros. Five thousand companies! Only one "Mobtel" created by Bogoljub Karic, the president of the Serbian Force Movement was sold for 1,830,000,000 euros and, of course, today, there is no telling where that money is, who has had it, how it has it and I will never forget the ads of the finance minister at the time, Mr Dinkic, that all apply to receive 1,000 euros. Imagine how impertinent that government was at the time. And if someone robbed this country, it wasn't the oligarchs who robbed it, it was the 12-year-old government, so-called. Democratic power. So there was no democracy. They are written and can be written whole novels, because such a robbery, cruel privatisation, no one has done anywhere in any country like they did in this Serbia. Serbia is an open country today. We've got our president's daily standoff and handing out arms to all his partners, all his neighbors. Normally, I think President Vukic will seem to have to look for investors as well. For example, Bosnia thought, Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is enough that their leading party in the Bosniak establishment has excellent relations with Turkey, and the Turks will rush on this religious basis to invest there. They forget that money and money go where they can fertilize and that's most important, that the most important thing is that such an investment climate is created here that everyone is happy to come and invest. There is something much more important, in Serbia, besides the investment climate, there is no need to forget that Serbia has people, has human resources, has educated people, has a capable working class and people come where someone will be able to implement it, not only to invest money. Another thing, as it is possible for 12 years, 12 years of their authority, from 2000 to 2012 was not built one tunnel, one bridge, one kilometer of highways. We have today from 2012 to today 360km of highways, bridges, tunnels and not to say hundreds, hundreds of factories. I can't imagine that someone else, someone else in that time, is at the head of this country. I must sincerely commend the president who has entered into the essence of all economic and economic financial problems so quickly and has made a great team. It's only enough when we have in mind what interest rates were on those loans, and what interest we have on these loans today, so I am extremely grateful to the Minister of Finance and at all to your team and part of the government. Normally, you don't need to sneak in, get some sleep, you can always do better. It can always do better, it can always do more and we're here just to remind you that all of this is pretty good, but it can, normally, and much better. When it comes to co-operation with China, Russia and the European Union's objections, partners from the EU, partners across the ocean, so sorry, we are ready to work with you. We are ready to accept your billions here and make them very transparent and useful to the benefit of this entire environment. Because if Serbia has good railways, good highways, good factories, well, please, it's no longer a problem. If we're growing, if we're making progress, this whole region will progress, and it's inevitable that there's going to be a formation of this little Shengen. Personally, as far as the EU is concerned, I wish we were there, because we are a very capable people and we would raise the level of economic development, the economic development of the entire EU. It would be one game where Serbia would be quoted very high, regardless of the benefits they have gained in the past 25 years. Anyway, I'm here pessimistic about our admission to the EU. Something I don't believe in, and that's why I welcome the idea of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic for the creation of Mini Shengen. We will say that we are a Balkan tiger here in all directions, not only in economic, financial, but we have something to say, we have what to recommend, because if we have such a number of tourists that is proof that the country of Serbia, the country they want to visit and the country where it is invested and in this pandemic. Russia and China as strategic partners of Serbia are extremely important for the development of the whole part of Europe, not only Serbia. If such factories are built in Serbia, if such bridges, railways are built, fast tracks. It's all useful for all of Europe. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, Budapest from Thessaloniki will take us five hours by rail. That's awesome. That's what draws Serbia forward. And normal, employment. Serbia comes in one phase when it lacks workers. We inherited 27% of the employment, which is now up to 7.8%. So, practically in Serbia, the next situation is happening. It's not just the one who chooses the job and who thinks he needs something better, and it's gonna be a while. I'm optimistic. I welcome the government's decision to give the right to all public enterprises, to the ministries, to all of these times employees of people who are at a certain time, so that they can decide for themselves to accept 70% of the people. That's necessary, believe me. You're out of frames, and creating new ones isn't easy. Therefore, this decision is very good and I believe that you will know that you use it and recognize those people who have been there for seven, eight, ten years as temporary employees of people under contract to get a permanent working relationship, that they can plan the long-term development of their families and their careers. As far as discrimination is concerned, no one has more rights in the area and minorities and education and in employment and in everything Serbia has. In Serbia, they are equal. Six languages are used equally. I personally don't mind when my fellow Albanians, you can speak Albanian and that's good, talk, why not. They've got headphones here that don't know. I was lucky enough to finish Ali Keljmendi high school teaching in Peća in Albanian, I graduated from high school in Albanian. There was no discrimination. We had both a high school and a teacher's school and a high school of economics and school of students in the economy and a higher commercial school in Albanian. I'll be glad whenever you speak your language, Mr. Shaip Cambery. You'll always have applause. You don't have to hesitate, you always speak your language. You know, how when you speak Albanian, it's the same for me as when I listen to our Krajina Serbs here or I don't know where they speak with one of their accents. I like that. Those who speak Ichakawa, Ekva, Ikawa, etc. That applies to the Bosniak brothers. There's no discrimination. I don't mind when you say Sandzak. You can say that's your business. We've got all that in the Constitution, we've got it covered. So everything that is within the Constitution, everything that the Constitution of Serbia has allowed, I support it as a MP, and that is supported by our President Aleksandar Vukic. We are all welcome here, we all have the right to address the citizens of Serbia in our own language and to express our opinion. I'm thanking you. I will vote and support everything the government has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1783	Thank you. I welcome Minister Ruzic and MP Marijan Risticevic, who has just joined us in the hall. You can hear everything, Mr. Risticevic. We missed you. Welcome back and congratulations on another important victory. Right on the line, MP Shaip Camberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1784	It's not a replica. It's just one explanation. Do minorities enjoy rights not depend on whether they can speak in their own language, but whether someone listens to them where they talk? The remarks we make, unfortunately so far have not met the echo on the other side and cannot be the criterion of my freedom of speech in my language, or at all my freedom of speech here a criterion for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1785	Thank you, Mr. Cambery. Since Mr. Cambery did not use the right to replicate, by amendment, Mr. Karic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1786	Normally, I am handling myself that my dear colleague, Shaip Kamberi, said the other day in the Assembly that language is the basic right of every citizen and every nation and that in that language, I am leading my dear colleague, said that you can and that it is one great right, and it is a pleasure in multi-national Serbia to hear several languages of my fellow countrymen, nothing else. I welcome you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1787	Thank you, everyone. Time remaining for the debate of the parliamentary group 94 minutes, and the next reported, MP Mladen Boskovic. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1788	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Orlic, Honored Minister Ruzic, Honored Ministers Sinisa Mali, with Associate Savičić, Honored fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am reporting under the amendment to the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. In Article 3 amending Articles 40 and 50. The Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance is added to Article 2 which reads – in the position of the 6th word – 2020 – is replaced by the words – 2021. I'd explain that. In order to further encourage employment and reduce the number of employees in the so-called the grey zone and their translation into the status of formal employees, an additional extension of the measure relating to the relief from the payment of contributions to compulsory social security on the basis of the earnings of new employees who are at the same time the founders of the company with which they base their employment, if the company as an employer is a newly established company carrying out innovative work. How the exemption from the payment of contributions to compulsory social security can be achieved by an employer, which was established at the conclusion of 31 December 2020, it is proposed to extend the period of application of a relief to employers established at the end of 31 December 2021. Which means they're extending the relief for another year. In addition to this proposal for legislation and amendments to the same, all the other draft laws that we discussed at the 7th session of the Second Regular Session, with a total of 17, are excellent and should be adopted in the voting day, as well as proposals for a member of the Fiscal Council, a list of candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. Congratulations on the excellent rating of the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia at BB level plus, published by Standard and Purs on 14 December this year, and thus maintained a stable outlook for its further increase. All thanks to consistency in implementing the responsible economic policy led by the Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic is with her team and, of course, headed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. The agency said that the Republic of Serbia is good grounds for sustainable economic growth and that it has gone into crisis with the pandemic and with stable public finances. Also, I have to look back on setting up a cornerstone, a new investment in our country in India, in the middle of the third wave of the pandemic, when it's the hardest thing for us to do and when we're fighting for every life of our citizens. It is an investment of 382m euros and it is the largest Japanese investment in our country. These are huge incentives for the development of the Serbian economy, and more importantly, we create conditions for more investors from Japan. There will be about 560 workers here, and this investment brings with it new technology. But I can't help but look back at the so-called. The opposition to Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovica because they all have 3% voter support together and may not have that kind of support. That's why they try to be in power again and do what they know best, which is to rob Serbia and its citizens. Little did Mr. Vuk Jeremic while he was in power and cobajagi was acting as foreign minister, and in fact only by his doing or not doing so much damage to the external political position of the Republic of Serbia. It is not a problem for him, because he has no problem with the truth and facts, because for him as well as others mentioned, Serbia's progress in all fields is not true and the facts of Serbia, but it is precisely those who deal with lies, insults and threats that daily and persistently repeat both according to President Aleksandr Vukic and his family, and according to the members of the SNS, and also from the municipalities from which I come. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not succeed, Serbia will win. In the end, I must say that I will support all the draft laws in the voting day, which I call on my colleagues to do. Long live Negotin, lived Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1789	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1790	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with the Co-operation, is on the verge of a very challenging and difficult year, the year in which our people and our state government have been tempted. We are witnessing a new great wave of epidemics, but we are witnesses of both timely and effective state and its health system, which as a result has the care and treatment of every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Serbia who needed this assistance. A catastrophic scenario of a part of our society, a piece of the so-called opposition and a small number of those who trust them did not come true. Our health system works as one of the best in Europe. We have evidence of that every day. I come from the middle that in time created the conditions to fight this pandemic in the best way possible. The local self-government in Leskovac, headed by Mayor Goran Cvetanovic, has done everything to bring about the reconstruction of the General Hospital in Leskovac, a 21m-euro project. The initiative came before the pandemic and was the target of criticism of the opposition. The lack of understanding for the importance of a project that begins and ends the local self-government of the town of Leskovci, of course, with the comprehensive support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is something we meet daily. However, the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Leskovec have great confidence in the exercise of SNS authorities at the local site, as well as at the republican level. How important is the timely response and efficiency of the health system, it is best concluded by those who have criticised it, because they now see the importance of the organised system. Health care professionals through multiple increases in earnings have been given additional motive to continue to put forth superhuman efforts to defeat this severe pandemic and thank them for that. On the other hand, the economy in Leskovac is still on the rise. We had a kind of paradox, that when there was an expected reduction in the number of workers in Leskovac, the number of employees increased. A great credit for this goes to the government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, President Aleksandr Vukic, who has helped the economy of Leskovec in a timely, efficient and optimal manner and assured the businessmen, both domestic and foreign, to operate in a highly-organised state with an extremely favourable environment that takes care of those who earn income and pay taxes. Today, I am proud to point out that the infamous unemployment rate, which my colleague Mr Dragomir Karic spoke of, has been reduced to 13% for the past eight years. Every morning, as in the golden age of our city when Leskovac is considered a Serbian Manchester, tens of thousands of Leskovcans head for industrial zones to one of the Jinsi factories, Juru, Falki, Auto stop, Rutek, Knitting, Leskobeg, Stesterstil, Aptiv and many others. The opening of new jobs has increased the purchasing power of citizens, recognising trade chains such as "Lidla", "Rode", "Capitol Park", "Idea", "Maxia", which are now available to all Leskovci. Thanks to the clear and consistent policy of the government and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, the private sector and the attracting of foreign investors has been booming over the past few years. I remind you that Leskovac is the first city in Serbia to receive a BFC certificate for the city for the fourth time in a row with a favourable business environment, with an estimate of 96.33%. In reality, this means that the city with such standards has three times more direct foreign investment than other municipalities that do not have it. Continuing the measures taken to support the economy, which aim to increase the liquidity of operators to mitigate the consequences of the resulting pandemic Kovid – 19 is one of the most important measures. The guarantee scheme regulation, among other things, allowed banks to approve up to two billion euros of favourable loans in the economy from 31 December 2020. Given the uncertainty we face in 2021, the extension of these measures for another six months is an additional mechanism that will help our economy come out of this pandemic with as little effect on production and, of course, with preserved jobs. Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic announced that the Republic of Serbia will be among the first to provide a vaccine for its citizens. We expect that in 2021 we will be an economy that will grow ahead of many European countries. I'm simply sure that these measures aimed at the economy, as well as health measures, will yield results, as has been the case many times this year. Finally, to point out that the outbreak of several important projects in Leskovac is at a stage of realization. Of course, it is crucial to complete the central wastewater treatment plant in Leskovac, a project worth 22.4m euros, which makes it worth 10.2m euros. These are the EU delegation's grants. Also, there is an expansion of the sewerage network to 16 places that are gravitating around the central plant itself, and it is a sewage network within 80km. It's funded by the Dutch government. Refunds, too. Of course, a collector that will supply a central facility, in which the Serbian government has invested a billion dinars. With nearly a billion and 600 million dinars, the town of Leskovac, of course, supported by the government of the Republic of Serbia, restored road infrastructure. With 750 million dinars, water infrastructure and sewerage nets with 45 million dinars were restored. These were decades of problems suffered by the town of Leskovac, which are now being solved in the last eight years. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the reduction in the unemployment rate from 25% to below 13%, the business environment created in co-operation with the government of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, which the government has already provided for economic operators, as well as the extension of this guarantee scheme, are guaranteed to further develop the town of Leskovec. Development that was finally launched in 2012 and which the biggest opponents and destructives lag behind so-called The opposition won't be able to stop. Of course, the policy of prosperity and better life, security policy is a permanent definition of Serbian citizens, who clearly show this in the elections and give their absolute trust to Alexander Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1791	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinović, and all the congratulations on the latest successes in Leskovec. Since we've completed the debate on the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. We move on to the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Provisional Editing of the Method of Charges for Public Media Service. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Katarina Rakic, Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1792	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, there is one saying that says: “Health is not everything, but without health everything is nothing. ” Health is the most beautiful suit that only we can see when we get sick. I want to thank everyone for supporting me these 40 days, especially the medical team and the medical team at Zemun Hospital. Thanks to them, I'm among you today. Thanks to the masks, we have fellow Matic with us. No one who sat next to me and hung out with me has ever gotten a crown. The Chinese broke the crown and broke it with three things, masks, no contact and no discipline. Our people have no discipline and hence measures. That's why I resent the MPs who object to the measures carried out by the Crisis Staff and recommend it because they need to know that we have a lack of discipline. Because of lack of discipline, we have measures that are often rigorous. If we were all wearing masks and we were all treating the people that are coming at us, like they're gonna hit us, we wouldn't need such rigorous measures. Nondiscipline is what spoils our wonderful people. Let's go back to the media. The media in Serbia is free. What does freedom of the media mean? The freedom of the media is that we as a government, in no way interfere with the editorial policy of the media that broadcast or re-emission the programme unless it causes national hatred, racial hatred, etc. It's clearly defined by law. So none of us want to interfere in one way or another in any media editorial policy. What does it mean to release some medium when politicians say that? That means, in fact, take him, and his information, or misinformation, adapt him to his political option. Ladies and gentlemen, not wanting to get involved in tycoon media editorial policy, and I have to count for viewers that these are "N1", "New", "Cinemania", that there are 30 of their channels, which are fun, which are sports, which are political, they're so-called. cross-border channels. What do cross-border channels mean? These are channels that re-emitting the programme from abroad and pay nothing in Serbia. Imagine you have two shoe shops doing services in Belgrade. One is registered in Belgrade and pays all taxes and contributions. The second one does the same services, but is fictitiously registered in Luxembourg, and at all, does not pay any taxes and contributions. The only thing he defends by saying -- here, we're registered in Luxembourg, is that we don't do business, we do business here, we don't pay anything here, and we don't pay anything there because we don't do anything there, we're just registered there. So, the media registered in Luxembourg, REM, SOKOJ, pay nothing. These media can't be sued when their editorial policies fail. To be clear, I don't mind them broadcasting whatever they want, but they have to register. Media that are building a programme in Belgrade must be registered in Belgrade, and media re-emissioning a programme broadcast abroad as "Rai Uno" "Rai Due", etc. However, these are classic cross-border media that re-emission the programme out here for the general public, i.e. viewers, such as Montenegro, BiH, are classical cross-border media. We have a media mob. We have joint media crime in this group of media. We have 30 fake cross-border channels, and when I tell you, let's say, "N1" television doesn't have a PIB, let me ask you how they pay taxes? They use PIB Adria News, d.o.o. Belgrade, which is not even the founder. And that it is the founder of N1 television, N1 television, when you establish a new legal face, it must also have a PIB. You can't have a legal face without a PIB. They're using someone else's PI and it's already a tax offense. They are a collection of businesses, not just media, let them broadcast the information they want, but to register in Belgrade, they are a collection of violations of the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Cross-border Channels, which says that re-emissioning is at the same time taking over an external programme, which is being broadcast, without broadcasting, no re-emission, no termination, no interruption, no interference, etc. They throw in a bunch of commercials, they take a bunch of money, REM that needs to do it is blind and dumb to fix it, because REM has powers, to order an operator, and that's in this case SBB, from United Media, they're all United Media, United Group, they're all registered in Switzerland, the Netherlands, etc., just to avoid obligations to this country. There's a lot of money pouring away. The regulatory body for electronic media is supported by compensation paid by domestic channels, like that... These cross-borders don't pay anything. They don't pay a white dinar, they don't pay for copyright, they don't pay for anything. In doing so, they're re-emitting, allegedly, commercials that aren't being broadcast in Luxembourg. That's it. That's it. That's it. They don't have their own original program anywhere. When I ask that question I get an answer, believe it or not, I ask REM, and I get an answer from United Media, I get an answer from the goat that it didn't eat cabbage. That's the kind of answer I got, and from Luxembourg, I get the answer that they're fictitiously registered there, but they don't broadcast the program there. No re-emissions without broadcasts. It's one big offense. They're not in the APR. They're not in the IRS. They don't have a PIB. How can they pay for anything? How can they charge for commercials? How do they charge their services if they don't have a PIB? There's one more thing to tell you, from the subscription paid by the citizens, so there's a small difference between Telecom and SBB. Both are supported by public money, from subscription, only in Telecom, you have the participation of state capital, but both are maintained and supported from the subscription paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One way or another, it's public money. They pump that money up and go into losses by paying for re-emission to Luxenburg, although no program is broadcast there. So in order to re-emission, he's being broadcast from here and they're paying for a show in Luxembourg that's not being broadcast there. And paying for fictitious services, and a serious tax offense. A series of violations were committed by electronic media. The advertising law says that cross-border channels cannot broadcast domestic advertising unless these ads are broadcast in the country from where the programme is broadcast, so it's re-transmissioned here. Tell me what it has to do with Luxenburg. I'll explain it to you on Fox Moves. What do they have to do with Diamonds? Are you telling me that there's commercials in Luxembourg about "The Deer" beer, "The Rabbit" beer, "The Diamond" etc.? Of course they're not, and they're supposed to be re-emitting here. By taking the advertising market, they are jeopardizing domestic media that pay all taxes. It's one offense, another offense, and now they're in third. Is someone monitoring these other channels, which were once normal, cross-border, except for that "Ray Uno", "CNN", etc., look at Fox. "Discovery" and other channels, did you notice that there are domestic commercials in them? Whoever's following it knows. I've watched in one movie have 1,000 seconds in two hours, 1,000 seconds of advertising. Are you telling me that these Serbian ads are part of the original program in America? Of course not. That's how money is stolen. That's how tax obligations are avoided. We're watching REM that's mute. So you can't go to REM like a sacred cow. There's some Mr. Todorovic and some Mrs. Rajka, they've been sending me such incomparable answers that it has nothing to do with a healthy brain. For example, they write to me this way: "Yes, the programme is made in Belgrade, so it is sent by cable to Luxembourg, from Luxembourg to Slovenia, from Slovenia to Serbia, and it is considered a re-emitation. "The law says that re-emissioning is at the same time the takeover of the programme, the original programme on the outside without termination, interference, etc. The media mob is stealing huge money. If 1,000 seconds in one film, to take only ads are very expensive, to take 10 euros, that's 10,000 in one movie in two hours, times 30 days, that's 300,000 times on one channel, times 12 months, 3,600,000 in one movie, and there's more movies in the day. The robbery that they're doing right now through advertising, putting in commercials, and without SBB, United media and these tycoon media can't go, they can't put in commercials any more than they can. So, in the original program, he turns it over, he throws in commercials, and he collects it. Who's at a loss? The media supporting REM is at a loss, with 307 million being paid. It's all domestic canals. Why don't the home channels fight back? Why isn't RTS objecting? They don't object because the SBB would transfer them to 155, 355th place in the cable. That's why you have to keep your mouth shut. And that's why, even though they're in harm's way, they're quiet. I argue that the advertising space that steals from domestic media is worth more than 50m euros a year and is pumping up the subscription. With this money, they finance not only the collapse of the government of the Republic of Serbia, with this money they will finance the country's collapse. They will team up with these, so those who have stolen us and the owners of these tycoon media, who have stolen us from inside for ten years, will now join those who have threatened us outside for 10 years, will unite with this and these media tycoons will try to bring this money and their media through the Belgrade elections, remember, try to bring down not the government but to bring down the state of Serbia. I think it's time for the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration to comb through what I was saying, see if there are tax offences, whether there's organised crime, but we shouldn't affect their editorial policy, because the freedom of the media means that they can freely broadcast the information they want. But in doing so, they have to be registered here or that the same program that they're recasting here is being broadcast in Luxembourg. They lied to us a lot, they cheated on us a lot. It's a huge damage we're suffering. Now they've crossed over, the commercials are going to Sinestar, and I don't know which channels, check it out. It's the end of the original channels. That's one big crime. Some media are free, but they do not have the right to commit business and tax offences because they damage the budget of the Republic of Serbia and worse -- thus damaging domestic media that are financed by the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1793	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1794	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by harmonising the amount of subscription paid to the public service of RTS and RTV, we provide independence in the work of public services. All of what my colleague Marijan Risticevic said, as regards some fictional television N1, Solaka and Gilasa, I completely agree with him, I do not believe that they are looking forward to what counterpart Marijan Risticevic is again with us today and is ready to continue his work in the National Assembly. Because, you know, it's important for them to shut anyone up in every way. There is also no public service in the Republic of Serbia's budget, no more need. It's no longer at the back of the public service of Dragan Gilas to take the money. So, in all of this free speech of public service independence, Serbia, I can say that it is far ahead of many countries in the region. We can agree or disagree with the public service policy. Of course, they have the right to criticise the MPs, to take their views, to see, to a certain problem, and we, the MPs, have the right to respond and to say what we disagree with our public service, to make some of our views, some of our assessments, etc. It is known to everyone that today is an epidemic of birds and that, apart from the lives that are threatened by our citizens, the states of Serbia, headed by its President, Aleksandr Vukic, is making a really great effort to preserve the public health of our citizens and the lives of our citizens. It also makes great efforts to maintain the level of economic activity that is on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to maintain the standard of living for our citizens at the same level as before the outbreak of the pandemic, as we know, we have just voted on the budget, some pay increases, above all for healthcare workers, later on for members of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, something for the state administration, which, of course, was opposed to the Fiscal Council. It seems to me that some people feel that it's not enough and that it would take even more of some branches or actions to give, so that they could continue to work. It seems to me that in this one noise that even the RTS participates in and pressures not on the government but creates one false picture of what was done for all the branches of the economy, so we had, I think, the day before yesterday, a show that was just talking about the crisis that is in the field of services, and the crisis that is in the area of hospitality, and the crisis that is in the area of tourism. I have to ask the question – which branch is not the crisis? In what line of action is this today not a crisis? Everyone would wave, massively, if they didn't pay income taxes. That's the first condition you'll hear. Here, metaphorically, to agree, but then I have to ask another question - and where are we going to provide funds for health care and the preservation of our citizens' lives and health if not from taxes? But no one at RTS wanted to comment. Another thing, why I say metaphorically – if you have to pay income tax, means you've earned something, means you haven't done business with loss, and that you need one share of profit like everyone else to pay to the state, like everyone else. Also, there was no reaction from any of the journalists, the manager, the editor, I don't care. It was important to show that the state does not take care of them and that the aid given by the state, given by those who pay taxes, is not enough. Guys, it's a crisis, a health crisis, an economic crisis. Well, you can't make as much money as you made before the crisis broke out. Well, hold on a second. It'll pass. Well, you'll be able to earn again. But don't threaten and don't say anything was done for you. It's not right. Here, I'm going to give an example of how correct people behave, I don't think you'd even agree to give any interview, any newspaper house. Goša, not from Smederjevska Palanka, but from Simiceva, has close to 200 workers. The production program – 95% export, orders fall to 15% than from times of crisis. The owner does not fire workers, but instead owes his company to preserve these workers and those jobs during the crisis. He pays taxes, he uses these benefits, but he pays taxes. He's in production, it's all systems and processes, looking to keep both his employees and his company. I've heard many stories, 485 thousand unrealised tourist trips completed by March 2020. So wait, does Serbia have seven, eight million people or 25 million people? Now I'm interested -- how much is really paid by the Foreign Exchange Act to the inopartners? Let's check it out. That's what the National Bank has to do with it. Let's see what this is all about. Is that really that much? Is it really in line with the foreign exchange business that money was transferred to the inopartners or was it carried into cash? If he was taken into cash, he'd go straight to prison, because he was billing his client's taxes, he'd charge that tax, he'd take the money, he'd take the money abroad, and he wouldn't write the tax, and he'd expect the same state he was cheating on, the money to survive, right, while the fur is going on. You can't cheat on the state and expect help from it. That's not normal. Is anyone banned from action today? It's not. Okay, I accept that tourism organisations really have great difficulties and those who work in accordance with the law really need to be helped as much as it is in the state's power, but we don't want to cheat. Is it forbidden for the caterers to work? It's not. They've only had a little short notice in the last two weeks. They represent it, as if they're doing nothing, on our public service, as if they don't have any jobs, no traffic, like they're just paying workers, so they're asking them not to pay taxes on profit or income. If you haven't done anything, then what kind of tax do you have to pay, you haven't earned anything? Then anyone who has difficulty in functioning, in carrying out their work, and everyone, believe me, from agricultural producers, industry, traffic, so here's a limited number of public transport places, so now everyone who deals in public transport because they have half the number of passengers in order to protect our citizens should ask - the state to make up for the other half. That's not how it works. The state helps as much as it can. He's not a minister, but I'd like him to tell me when he enters the O.R., when there's been a control of the application of the fiscal registers, in which activity was the most irregularity? Let the minister say I don't say it, or maybe I'll be subjective. I bet those who are the loudest now that the measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are not enough that they can't work under such conditions, I bet you whatever you want them to be the biggest breakers of the Fiscal Cash Act, so here's the independence of the public service. They can't say that they haven't been provided with funds, they can't be told that they can't do whatever they want, they can carry whatever they want, they can criticize as much as they want, but also let journalists, editors, leaders, whatever they want to do, if they don't know the details of that topic or they don't want to talk to them on purpose, let them expect an answer here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1795	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1796	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for that beautiful announcement a few moments ago when you summed up the impressions from yesterday's session of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to relate to your story, and I will try to sum it up briefly and for the sake of the people who are here in this room and for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Minister Ruzic, if we try to establish, respected ministers, who are bigger than the two of us in centimeters or weighs in kilograms, we would have to simply stand on the scale or stand side by side. Of course, it doesn't say anything about the quality of a person, nor does it mean anything other than the comparison that is related to it, to those sizes itself. Why am I telling you this? In order to make a comparison of any government, including yours, and to know how you work, we would have to compare it to some other governments. For a long time, we have compared the work of your government and the president of the state to some previous governments in recent Serbian history. I don't think that's appropriate. As time goes on, I am increasingly thinking that this may be a little and offensive for today's institutions of the Republic of Serbia. It is not appropriate to compare the results of this government and this president's work with the results and work of some previous governments and some former presidents from modern Serbian history, and it is particularly not appropriate to compare work with governments from 2000 to 2012. I think the work of the Serbian government and the Serbian president should begin to compare more and more closely with the work of serious European governments and developed European democracies. One comparison should be made in the work of the Government with the European governments behind which serious economies stand, and therefore serious collection of public revenues, which we are talking about today. These and such governments, as well as such, use revenue to develop their own state, improve the standards of their own citizens, and also use public revenues and budgets to help their countrymen living outside the countries of origin. I think Serbia and Serbia's government should begin to compare greatly with governments and presidents of serious countries within the EU, not with governments from a previous period in Serbia. These comparisons are no longer adequate. Perhaps we could make a comparison with our northern neighbour who is doing a pretty good job, but also with someone else within the EU. Sometimes it's good to make comparisons with yourself, to see what you're doing today, and to see if there's progress in relation to what you've done before. Since today we're also talking about public income, among other things, taxes, I'll just remind you. In the first nine months of this year, tax-based, 962 billion dinars were charged. If we compare it to last year's period, same period, we'll realize that it's 81.5 billion more than last year's. If we're talking about the billing index, it used to be 99.2%, and today it's somewhere at 109.2%. Now, right here, dear Vice President Orlic, we're coming up with that topic that you've just begun, which I'm about to continue on. I thank you very much for this state-of-the-art feeling, that you are speaking in this distinguished home, even though the media in Serbia seems to be very silent. That does not mean that both you and I, Mr Orlic, will remain silent and we will not inform the public in Serbia. I am extremely grateful that you attended the Committee sessions yesterday and thus respected our fellow Americans who were yesterday, so I can't say guests, but people in my house and attended the sessions of the Diaspora and Serbs in the region. And why do I compare the revenues to this? Well, these very revenues that I was just talking about were the basis for all that the Serbian government and the Serbian president are doing, when our countrymen are at stake. If you have income like this, if you have a responsible policy, primarily fiscal, then you are able to help our countrymen in the environment. If you were to talk about this help to me here in this respectable home, maybe someone could say, above all, someone malicious, that it's subjective, that it's a subjective feeling and that maybe it doesn't fit some objective state. Yesterday, however, it was a pleasure to listen to the very ones to which the aid was applied, and that was the only thing that was certainly objective and certain. Yesterday indeed, the board session lasted two and a half hours. You haven't heard much about it in the media. Two and a half hours because we had something to say to each other, people who had nothing to say to each other don't sit for two and a half hours. It's only in case they're friends who are a little hard to part. Yesterday, all of us members of the board, the vice-president of the Assembly, and our friends from Montenegro, from Republika Srpska, Croatia, the leaders of the Serbs, had a pleasant and long conversation. He will say, presenting what the Serbian government and Serbian President Mladjan Cicovic, head of Republika Srpska's presidency in Belgrade, is doing: "Serbia and Republika Srpska's co-operation for the past seven years is better than ever before, and Serbia's contribution to the preservation of Republika Srpska is immeasurable." The credit is that President Aleksandar Vukic's excellent co-operation with the institutions of Republika Srpska is excellent. This will be transmitted by all the important state and private media in Republika Srpska, have you heard anything about this in the media in the Republic of Serbia? You're not. But we are the ones who are going to talk about it today and discover the truth that is objective, which determines who it actually refers to. However, let me be honest with you, in addition to everything we've heard, and we've heard a lot about concrete projects that Mr. Cicovic also spoke of today, which I won't talk about today, and as far as the airport in Trebinj, the water pipeline in the village of Baji, and further through the construction of the Assembly temple in Mostar and the Foca road – Gacko and all the kindergartens and schools in Banjaluca and "Junko" factories in Drvar. I won't talk much about concrete projects today, it was more and better done than I did yesterday, Mr. Mladjan Cicovic. However, one of the most impressive details I brought yesterday from the board's session, and I will probably bring it as one of the most impressive details from the mandate of this assembly, when speaking of the difficult situation of the Serb people in Montenegro, the director of the "Serbian House" Emil Labudovic of Podgorica, also spoke of the construction of the "Serbian House" and the assistance of 3.7m euros sent by Serbia. He said one big thing, just like this: “No one has done this to the Serbian people in Montenegro since the time of King Alexander. ” Believe me, it was pride yesterday to be a member of the SNS and an MP for this honored home. When such a word is said by someone who is directly concerned, because today is the president of Serbia and the president of the SNS, it is probably the most important impression I will offer from yesterday, and perhaps, we will see what time will bring the most impressive moment in this term. Today, we also talk a little bit about RTS taxes and we all agree that public service should be kept, but had the demands of our friends, particularly from Podgorica and from RTS, asked RTS and MTL, as the daughter of Telecom Serbia, to work better with them. I will take advantage of this moment and this assembly speaker that RTS and Telecom Serbia, whose daughter MTL operate in Montenegro, ask as much as possible to meet the demands and requests of our community living in Montenegro and to do their best to contribute to their better position. I hope this will be heard by the leaders of RTS and the leaders of Telekom Srbija. There's a lot of things we talked about yesterday. I hope that the media will follow the little thing in Serbia better, at least as closely as the media in Podgorica and the media in Banja Luka. I've made several comparisons. Based on this, I leave Serbia's citizens alone to make comparisons in what this government and this president and this parliament are doing, in the end, in relation to other parliaments and governments, and perhaps best compared to European parliaments, governments and presidents, to make a comparison and the decision will be easy to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1797	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. I'm sorry, Professor, but now I've noticed since I was absent because of the National Convention that Marian Risticevic has returned, recovered, survived. Happy birthday. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1798	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic, it is certainly good that the Government rejected this amendment because the proposed decision by the Government of Serbia that in 2021, unique media services are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and in part from the public media service fee, which would be charged through an electricity bill, is the real thing. Why? Because it provides a high rate of charge, because that's what we've had a little trouble with in the past. It is proposed that the tax increase, as we have seen, for 44 dinars, so that it is 299 dinars, instead of 255. Multiple reasons. I'm not going to talk about them, but I'm going to use my exposure to one other thing, which is to say that television has a huge role in raising and shaping the social consciousness of our citizens. This is very important in the present time, because since 2000 we have ignored the educational function of not only schools, families and societies in general, but, if we will, television as a mass media. Education is a process in which positive personality traits are built. Attitudes, beliefs, but also character, moral, work and social values. So television is an exceptional factor, not to say one of the most important of mass media, but also a total outstanding factor in education and education. Still the philosopher Kant said – a man can become a man only by raising, and our patriarch Paule said – let's be people. It is, but a man becomes only by raising himself. That's why television as a medium is present in every household, which is a medium that our children love and consider to be their best friend. Therefore, it is necessary to use children's love for television and to give them such programs with extremely educational content in terms of children's programs. I'm not saying public services don't give it, but I think they should give more because research says that 70% of our children watch children's programs. Is it small? So, as a factor of education, it's of paramount importance. Dear ladies and gentlemen, in today's world there is a difficult battle to win the spirit of a nation through the ideology of information. We today and in Europe, and in the world, have the process of destroying traditional, moral and spiritual values. This enables the flowering of neo-Nazi organizations, thereby revising the Nazi past. We have witnessed this in many countries of Europe. Therefore, a unique media service is extremely suitable for pushing content from the anti-fascist past. I'm not saying that public media service doesn't work. It really works. I have to point out from private television that Pink 3 is doing extremely well, and these under the control of Dragan Gilas are not working at all. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that Serbs identify themselves with fascists to relativize Nazism and the Germans release the blame for their Nazi past? Those who deal with the past and the present know it very well. For the German political elite, for the journalistic esnaf and the dominant part of the Serbian cultural elite, they became new villains, and in this narrative, the Serbs turn from the victims of the Nazis to Nazi criminals. You've felt it, seen it, ladies and gentlemen of the people. That is why I strongly advocate that patriotism, in the broadest and noble sense, be the foundation of the Serbian state. I'm glad that the Minister of Education is here in this high school, and we can do it best through education and education, and I have to say since 2000 that many of the contents are related to patriotic feelings and patriotism being kicked out of many programs, something has been coming back in recent years, but it's not enough yet. Patriotism means commitment to the development of the country and its progress. Patriotism is an idea that unites all Serbs. Originally, a patriot is one who loves his country, I stress, who loves his country. It's basically patriotism that's more love than interest. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a huge mistake of liberal moralists, but Republican patriots, who are the country as a complex spiritual, cultural community, who want only to come down to the community of one interest, even if it was a moral or democratic interest. Patriotism is not grateful for the material benefits received, it is so called. material patriotism, but not even gratitude for the guarantees of civil and political freedoms, it's so-called. Republican patriotism, and not even grateful for... It's ethical patriotism. So for all these points of view, it is common for them to demand that the country be loved, I cast an emphasis on this, that the country is loved only in one of its best forms. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, it would be the same if they attributed the child to loving his mother if she was rich, if she was beautiful and morally impeccable. Mother loves each other even when she's imperfect, just like country. Why? Because it's ours. That's why he was right, Seneca, I underline once more, when he said – I love my country not because it's rich, not because it's beautiful and advanced, but because mine is finished quote. Only love can be a lasting motive to bear sacrifice, and in an imperfect world, like ours, sacrifice for the community is the basic way to survive it because without love one of the main functions of patriotism cannot be realized – willingness to sacrifice for the survival of the entire community. TV has extraordinary power in that sense, and that's why I'm throwing a special accent at it. Do you know, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respected MPs, that one of the latest studies of first year of university in Serbia 33% of first year students do not know what patriotism and patriotism means. To compare, at the end of the 19th century, in the fourth grade of primary school, students knew what patriotism and patriotism were. These are the students who won victory in the Great War because they were raised in a patriotic spirit. Therefore, respected citizens, it is commendable that the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic is to return to the Army of Serbia for moral training. The former regime's parties, as ordered by a Mura, were abolished in 2005 and 2006 in the Serbian Army, and as we know, was returned to Serbia's Army last year. I quote -- restoring moral education to the Serbian Army is not a party matter. It is a question of patriotism, it has to do with love for its homeland, a finished quote, said the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, on December 1, 2017. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1799	Thank you. National MP Professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1800	Thank you, Comrade President. I'd like to start with this amendment first. It is perfectly normal for us to have different opinions and it is perfectly normal for someone who is not satisfied with the editorial policy and at all with the Public Service policy to express his dissatisfaction in a way that disagrees with the increase in the subscription that counts when looked at and is not something big. To propose that this subscription be one dinar is, not to use a very harsh word, humiliating, but it's the right thing to suggest an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1801	Professor, just one warning. It's the next amendment we haven't crossed yet. If you want to discuss it, then I'd ask you to wait, if it's not a problem because we have a break now. I'd like to take a break by 15.00 because there are no more reports, so I apologize if anyone else has to sign up. If there are no more reported, we have the following dynamics – this means that the break is up to 15.00 hours. At 15.00 hours, we have another amendment on the agenda under this law. That's the amendment you started talking about. After that, there'd be a vote. That's it, if you agree. I'm taking a break until 3:00. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardjan Bajrami. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Anyone who wants a word, sign in. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1803	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment that we have tabled right now on the proposal for a law on temporary tax regulation for RTS is forecasting that the tax on public media service RTS instead of the current 255 dinars is reduced to one dinar. We believe that this increase provided for in this bill is absolutely unwarranted. As much as 255 dinar tax so far, we believe it is huge, given that the way public service performs its task of objective informing all citizens and this – objective – is certainly under the circumstances. From the point of view of the Bosniak people, we have additional reasons why we are against this increase. Several reports on the realisation of the rights of members of national minorities to information, several times mention one untruth. It is not true that all national minorities exercise the right to inform in their native language. There is not a single second of information program in Bosnian on RTS, and there was not even distance classes in Bosnian. Therefore, the question arises why would citizens, members of the Bosniak people, pay a fee to RTS, when no single information in their native Bosnian language can come to that public service? Moreover, the Public Service Programme Committee has gone a step further towards denying the Bosnian language and thus to denying and the existence of the Bosniak people in Sandzak. At the request of the Bosniak National Council, under the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the programme council, by rejecting this request, went so far as to deny discrimination as I said the existence of the Bosniak native language. If we know that denial of one language is a fundamental identity element of a nation, it also means that you deny an entire nation. Then we see how many RTS in this case have not only entered into violation of the law and the Constitution of this country, but also universal human rights. (President: Mr. Imamovic, just one question, since you know that the interpretation of the amendment is two minutes... I will use the time of the parliamentary group. That's what I wanted to ask you. Here you go. ) The Public Service Programme Committee has thus violated Article 6 and Article 24. Law on the prohibition of discrimination, and hence Article 3. The European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, adopted by Serbia in the National Assembly, is clearly and unequivocally regulated and used by the Bosnian language. So, in 2005, Serbia ratified the European Charter of European and Minority Languages, passed that law in the National Assembly, and now we see that the RTS Programme Committee of the Laws in the most harsh way violates it, so I ask you - is such a service that violates the laws that we bring here in the National Assembly deserve to be supported here for a new impose on citizens? This discrimination was also confirmed by the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, which issued an opinion on 6 November 2019 with a recommendation which unequivocally found that RTS had conducted discrimination against Bosniaks in Serbia. On the other hand, the political view of the party I come from has been since the establishment of the parliamentary party. We're on that so-called. We don't have a single second of participation, not a single second of use of that public space. To make things even more clear, what kind of RTS policy is towards the SDA Sandzak, I'll give you the data from a survey on media monitoring in the pre-election campaign, where RTS is so-called. The public service of citizens abused for the brutal and disproportionate destruction of the SDA Sandzak, so in 15 days, how much reporting was followed in the previous election campaign, 217 negative SDA Sandzak contributions were published on RTS. So, in 15 days, 217 negative contributions have been released and in the middle of the campaign. I'll remind you this is about a minority parliamentary party. Therefore, these 217 contributions are more than on all other parties involved in these elections together, including these called large parties. At the same time, on RTS on one member of the Sandzak ruling regime, I will not mention the name, because for this debate it doesn't matter, 226 positive contributions were published, six neutral and no negative contributions. So it is obvious that the goal of this campaign in which RTS played more than an active role was to throw the SDA Sandzak out of political life, to throw the SDA Sandzak out of parliament and to impose the Bosniak political representatives who are at the will of the regime. Therefore, the SDA of Sandzak absolutely does not support this law and we believe that this political instrument, such as RTS today, should not be supported. Is the greater fee we impose on citizens to reward such a public service for this kind of work? This is all at a time when the European Commission particularly outlines in its reports the threatened freedom of the media and almost absolute bias when it comes to the ruling regime's parties. So this kind of increase in a situation like this is counterproductive. To repeat, our proposal in this amendment is that the subscription from 255 dinars is reduced to one dinar and that, if you ask me, I prefer to give for quizs such as "The puzzle" and "The Potters". I think it's time that RTS, and in particular the information program, that elections to trust viewers in a fair media game in which they will not be privileged in this competition and in which RTS will not have a privileged position compared to other media. This way he'll always be dependent on those who give them privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1804	Thank you. Since the MP was just a moment ago, Ljubisa Stojmirovic began to speak, so I interrupted him, as this amendment is concerned, I am now giving him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1805	Thank you, Comrade President. Very interesting amendment. Why? Because he kind of pointed out the RTS management of the major gaps they made in the previous period. To reduce the subscription to one dinar, it probably won't, although it's a little awkward in this moment when we're in an extremely difficult crisis. In my view, it would take as little new pressure for citizens as possible because I don't even know how the citizens will, and how the economy will endure this period ahead of us. Why am I saying this is one lesson, not to say something else, for management? Now RT is in the period when it prepares to elect a new management, i.e. a new CEO. I think the board of directors should think carefully about who will put the RTS principle and who will be in that place to make a good, quality, realistic plan and on the basis of this plan to meet those objectives set out in the RTS policy and strategy. Is that hard? It's not only hard if someone wants to work and if they're professional in the job. If you want to see how good management works in a good company, my recommendation is to go to the Star Health Home. There's everything that's said to be school. Patients, i.e. customers, are satisfied with their employees, society and the population are satisfied, and I don't think it's difficult for them to function and do all of our companies and all of our companies. But there's something else. Somehow, we decided very quickly that everything that's state is wrong, but only what's private, so we ruined a lot of good and strong companies. The other day I watched and listened to TV in Leskovec closes the last state pharmacy. Is it possible that in today's time when the population is exposed to both this pandemic and other diseases and where we are a nation that has very great health needs, is it possible that a state pharmacy can't function? I know earlier when I was a student and while I was later in my practice with these projects, the Belgrade Apothecary Institute was one of the most good and quality institutions. Today we see it all going to waste. We have to try and help. I can commend Minister Sinisha Malloy for two reasons. One reason is how he manages finance in these difficult times, and another reason is, that's the man who only comes here to us in the Assembly. Does he have any antibodies, so he's not afraid to infect us unlike his colleagues? I wasn't before, Ruzic, and I'm sorry he left, I wanted to ask him some questions, but I don't see these other ministers. Ministers, come on. We're not infected. There were doctors here, and they were checking us out, testing us. Mostly 90% of us don't have a crown. I hope that we will try to help the government in the coming period as much as possible, both health care and all of us to get through this difficult situation, so I hope that some time will come where this TV tax won't even be paid, but then, even though it's state television to go to a game with its competition and to make its income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1806	Thank you. The People's MP of Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1807	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Members of the Single Serbia will not support this amendment on Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Temporary Editing of Tax Payments for Public Media Service, because this amendment devises the Bill itself and wishes to virtually abolish the subscription for public media service. The amendment's proposal did not guide the principles of public service independence, the positive democratic practice of other countries that cultivate the independence of their public media services, but do exactly the opposite. The amendment wants, instead of citizens, the financing of public service to go completely to the state or may want the existence of a public media service to be abolished. I'm not quite sure what the intention is, because it explains that public service does not meet the legal obligation of objective information. All of us present and comment on the work of the public service. The day before yesterday, my fellow MP, Vojislav Vujic, made an observation that the president of Unity of Serbia, one parliamentary party Dragan Markovic Palma, has not been visiting RTS for the past few years. Comments have all other political parties, but none of them have made such a proposal that either makes work impossible or restricts the independence of the public media service. The fact that we all have smaller or larger objections may well be an indication of the independence of the public media service. In fact, the public media service has repeatedly shown in its work that the need for Serbia's state and citizens is necessary. At the time of the coronary epidemic, the public service placed its resources for the purposes of recording the performance and teaching at a distance on its third channel and on the RTS Planet platform. Thousands of teaching units have been recorded since the start of the epidemic to date and are of great benefit to all primary and secondary school students. Public media service differs from commercial media because it broadcasts those contents that are of social interest and do not cause such media attention to be commercially profitable, such as the scientific programme, educational programme, content of importance for the care of tradition, culture and language of all peoples and national minorities and religious groups. The national service broadcasts in the languages of national minorities of emissions and takes care of the cultivation of national, cultural and religious diversity in a way that treats these differences as a wealth of our country. Such programs are certainly not a sphere of interest in commercial media. Public media services through their regional centres across Serbia allow citizens across our country not only to hear news from different parts, but to place their economic, sports, cultural and other achievements. That's exactly one way to encourage, to give, to say the incentive to even regional development that we all stand for. Public media services in the world are the flows of modern democratic states as the state of Serbia certainly is. Unique Serbia advocates the preservation of these flows, and therefore we are against this and this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1808	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1809	Thank you, Mr. President. When it comes to the amendment submitted by colleagues from the United Valley of SDA Sandzak parliamentary group, I must say that for the first time I will agree in one part of my colleagues' presentation, believe it or not. I'll agree, of course, with what the distinguished Professor Stoimirovic was saying, and I think there's a lot that both colleagues and JS have said. So, what are the differences, and where are the differences? First of all, I think we can talk about the RTS program, and that is the legitimate right of each of us. Legally, it's the right for everyone to express their views. You know, after the inter-party dialogue, we had an open debate and debate, a public debate here in Parliament with representatives of the national frequency media. There was RTS, there were other media. Of course, all those political options that were interested, both parliamentary and non-parliamentary, and even representatives of the NGO sector, and we were in favour of three things at that time. The first thing, to define the rulebook, it was right before the elections, to define the rule when it comes to public service, to recommendations when it comes to commercial broadcasters, because you cannot impose something on the private sector. The second thing, yes, the equal representation of parliamentary parties, at that moment all of those political options of the electoral lists that participate in the elections, but we insisted that it be a face-to-face, that they be debates and that it be an opportunity for everyone to have the opportunity to come out with their programme and with people who are guaranteed to implement the programme, so citizens should give their own court in parliamentary elections. The third thing we've suggested, and we think it's important not only for public service, we think it's important for commercial media, it's a new challenge that we face in the 21st century, and that's a "fake news." So when we have such a phenomenon, then we have the possibility that on the other hand we can hear counter argumentation and counter fact. I can agree with my colleague Imamovic, I really have no problem with that, regardless of what a minority parliamentary party is, every parliamentary party must and should have its right to be represented at the public service. Don't think that we as representatives of the majority and part of the ruling coalition are satisfied. A million more times to visit, behold, a colleague of Life spoke a million more times and Dragan Markovic Palma and Ivica Dacic to speak, so it won't be enough as those who ruled before us said. It won't be enough times. But we don't do it that way for one simple reason, because I'm going to repeat what I was talking about during yesterday's debate. So, I don't think we should or should not be dealing with editorial policy, media policy. The goal of what we're doing is to ensure public service independence. But I will also refer to my colleague Stoimirovic's discussion, now it is an opportunity and is now on the move of the public service and is now on the move and the board of directors and the programme council to choose a management that will make one balance between respect for the right of the opposition and respect for the right of opposition and all relevant political actors on Serbia's political scene. So all of this is to be discussed, and when it comes to the representation of parliamentary groups and when it comes to representation of national minorities. I'm the amendment, I think when you read it like this, he doesn't say what his colleague was talking about for a while. He, among other things, says in an explanation – because of the objective information of all citizens. It is not very clear, I would say, precise, and it is said – at the will of the regime. Now, here is the question - and what is it that the regime wants? What exactly did this regime do when it came to RTS? Is this, not to say the regime, but the ruling coalition, because the regime is something imposed, and the ruling coalition gets support in parliamentary elections, as we have won in parliamentary elections. So what is it that the ruling coalition in Serbia has imposed? Did she change one of the RTS editors? Did she impose any kind of personnel solution on RTS? It's not. By chance, I watched one of the shows, I think last week was an informative show, I'm not going to name the show, because I really don't want to criticize anyone, but I'm glad to see that there was no representative of any of the ruling structures on that show, and he was a representative of the extraparliamentary opposition party, a representative of the NGO sector. So it's not true that they don't call, but they don't need to, and we can't influence it, and we don't have to deal with editorial policy. It's a job for someone else. On the other hand, the bad message we send from parliament is bad, and we mention the European Parliament's reports and I will say something about it. It's a bad message that we always get to it somehow – freedom of the media. Freedom of opinion, freedom of expression and freedom of speech are the basic postulates of a democratic society, as Serbia today is. If we're starting with the thesis that if we're present in the media, then the media image is good, and if we're not present in the media, then the media image is bad, I personally think it's not good. Then we would go in and deal with the editorial policy of the media, which is not the goal of the ruling coalition. So the media must be autonomous in deciding. Let's not all, when it comes to RTS, follow through the prism of information emissions, through the prism of political emissions. A colleague spoke for a moment about a segment that is important when we talk about the work of the Public Service. It's not just a RTS information program and it's not just politics. So RTS is both a scientific and educational and cultural and sports programme, but also a film, documentary programme. They're on RTS, among other things, correspondence. I think RTS has about 25 correspondence at the moment. How many redactions does RTS have? Correspondents in America, Brussels, Europe. So, equipment that hasn't been restored for years, which is finally being restored and modernised. Thanks to RTS, as a few colleagues said, the school program took place during the pandemic period and this is of particular importance. On the other hand, if we're talking about national minorities, do you know what Lymet is? It is something that is broadcast three times a day on RTS and we personally from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group have absolutely no objection. We don't mind the other national minorities being represented either. But is this proposal, when you say we're giving out money for RTS, enough for that? Or do you want to send a different message? Whether they agree or disagree with RTS's editorial policy, but I think the history of the state is in RTS and that the national treasure is in that Takaviska 10. I agree with you on management, but I don't support the fact that in one perfidious way you're trying to trigger macroeconomic instability. In what way? So if you accept that the money is set aside for RTS, then the burden will fall on the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is automatically one way to challenge macroeconomic stability in the country. As for the European Commission report, we will talk about this, I hope by December 29th, during yesterday I asked the President of Parliament a question and I am glad that I have received a positive answer, that we will also have a session where parliamentarians, as legitimately elected representatives of citizens, will be able to say what they think about the report, that we will take some views. I said it was our responsibility and responsibility to the citizens, not only to listen to what they say in the region, not only to listen to European parliamentarians, who, because of the prefix of the rapporteur, have the right to say something, and we do not have the right to say it, but we have to listen. This is not the position of the entire European Parliament, it is the position of only one European Parliament rapporteur who, I repeat, said I will not say a name or name, but said that the good news that new chapters will not be opened in Serbia. As far as the European Parliamentarians are concerned, speaking of them, and during yesterday's day, it's interesting, you know, during the inter-party dialogue we mostly discussed about 42 requirements, it was an ultimatum, but the key things were REM, RTS, media. The electronic media regulator, because one part of the opposition wanted to have its people in REM at all costs, so that he could control the electronic media, RTS, to have a presence on RTS. We told them -- we don't have a problem with that, the more you attend RTS, the more public service, the better for us. Citizens will see how much you're worth, or how much you're not worth. I had a music escort, so I asked them to shut down (President: You can do this a little while longer until the code is passed. No, I didn't play the music. (President: I don't mean you. Martinovic prepared it, delivered it to the procedure. Not even counterpart Shaip Kamberi, I know. So I hope that we will adopt the code of ethics very quickly and that it will define the rules both outside Parliament and parliament, but I am going back to what is the topic. So it's interesting that these were key topics. They were not interested in the elections, because they knew in advance, they would not participate in the elections. We could have had a natural threshold, as they had national minorities, but they wouldn't participate in the elections again. They can't even collect that number of voters, they don't trust it either. They were only interested in one thing, if without a choice to reach power, privilege, through some transitional government, which still goes through today as one of the issues, which, of course, is out of the question, if they think that we are talking about it during the interparty dialogue, they can immediately reject it. We from the SPS parliamentary group, and before the dialogue begins, we immediately order, they can reject it, and for everything else we are prepared to do, we are ready to discuss on all other topics. That's all they cared about, that's all the media was. When we finished, as they insisted that we allow the opposition to have its representatives in REM, we said, okay, we respect European standards, we respect European practice, but you know what, we in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have clear and precise laws, we have legal frameworks as well as how REM members are elected. Since you are in Serbia, and this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, our obligation as an MP is to respect these laws, and thus to choose the REM composition, with all due respect. When all this was over, they only found it appropriate to visit REM and get acquainted with REM. And then they said, I repeat, there are two parallel countries, two parallel institutions and parallel media. Well, how can there be no media freedom in Serbia if there is parallel media in Serbia? How come there's no media freedom in Serbia? According to the opposition in Serbia, the one that is extraparliamentary if there is no freedom of the media in Serbia. Let's take a look at the news today, and look at yesterday's news. Are there any representatives of the vanparliamentary parties? There is. Since there is no freedom of the media in Serbia, I do not understand. On the other hand, he says, concerned about democracy, with the freedom of the media concerned and democracy. It's very interesting that the media is talking about freedom today, and they didn't speak in 2011. Mr. Dacic, you and I are once at a time, I don't know if you remember, I'm having a depression, I think there was a show right at the public service, although I'm rarely invited as president of the parliamentary group, but here it is, there was one show. You and I analyzed how many times you were in the time period, it was a short period of time, about 2011, how many times you were in a negative context on the front pages of certain newspapers. We calculated that it was close to 150 times, and you were part of the ruling coalition. Now, that's media freedom. But we didn't, neither did you, but you let the media do their job, because you knew what was true and you knew that the truth was the interest of all of us. I ask the question, how can they not remember that in 2011 to speak in the European Parliament about freedom of the media? Just in 2011, Verica Barac made a report and expressed serious concern about media freedom in Serbia in the report. I asked that and Tanya Fajon during the interparty dialogue. She told me she wasn't a reporter back then. I say -- wait, then you could as a European Parliamentarian, if you were a European Parliamentarian, so you could at least ask a question then. Unfortunately, their usual practice is when they have nothing to say to you, then it usually becomes quiet and quiet. So, I agree in part with the exhibitions that I just heard from my colleagues, but I have to say who's fighting for freedom of the media in Serbia today, who's talking about freedom of the media in Serbia. Are these representatives of those political parties who physically attacked journalists, or journalists, which is even worse, in front of their media house. Are they representatives of those political parties who kicked journalists out of a press conference just because they didn't answer the questions the journalists asked them. Were those who illegally owned the tabloids and blackmailed the media through their marketing agencies every second of national television, or television with national frequencies. Is it the same thing as those who sent the police, I'll remind you of that period, whenever some daily paper makes a bad announcement about them, the same ones in whose time there was only one opinion, and that's their opinion. You know, they have just so much courage to either drive out journalists, or not to answer the question, or just so much courage to come before Olivera Zekic, or Olivera Zekic has the courage to come before them and explain to them what the law is, and how the law should be respected, means they have just so much courage to come before REM and ask to close the TV "Pink" and to seek publicly at press conferences to put out certain daily papers. It is tragic that the leader of the opposition political options will go to a press conference and tell the representatives of the national frequency that the moment we reach power, we will shut you down. These are people who advocate media freedom in Serbia today. Unlike them, I say, we will discuss this when the European Commission report comes, an important segment, we will pay particular attention to it, but unlike them, Serbia is today a country in which the freedom of opinion and freedom of speech and freedom of expression are respected. In support of this, in order not to convince and speak, he speaks among other things and the presentation of counterpart Marijan Risticevic. I'm glad you're between us, I wish you good health, and I wouldn't have anything to add, but just to make a parallel with everything he's been saying. So, for this reason alone, this amendment is unacceptable to us, but we agree that we need to discuss the direction in which national minorities should be represented at public service and how representatives of parliamentary parties, regardless of how many national minorities they have and how many MPs they need to be represented, also, on public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1810	Thank you. Before we continue, I just want to let you know one more time, as I said, that the vote will be after the debate on this amendment. Given the time that remains and expectations, it'll be around 5:00. We're moving on. Mr. Imamovic, you answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1811	Thank you, Your Honor. I will try to look back at the part of the amendment's address, given that despite the speech and the explanation of the reasons for the disagreement with the amendment there were still a number of additional topics. So we do not start with the fact that the media presence necessarily measured whether or not this medium was performing a quality task. I just gave you the information. You said that it was terrible that Mr. Dacic was mentioned 150 times in the negative context in the media for a year, and I presented the information where SDA Sandzak was mentioned 217 times in a negative context for 15 days in that media public service, in the middle of an election campaign. Well, that's for us and what a strong argument that we don't support this kind of editorial public service policy in this House. I also told you that public service violates the laws that we bring here. It violates the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Freedom and Rights of National Minorities, the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, which we have ratified here. So if such a public service deserves support in this home, then I really don't understand a policy that wants to help a public service that violates the law. It is also said here that we are questioning the survival of public service with this amendment. So this amendment is just returning to a promise made to the citizens of 2012 that the subscription to RTS and the public media service will be lifted.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1812	Mr. Imamovic, two minutes are up. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. On what grounds? (Jorge Milicevic: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1813	Thank you, Your Honor. Let me explain. It's not a year, it's less than a month, and it's more than 150 negative, but it's not a topic, it's already about the daily papers. I've already said that we're not dealing with editorial policy and that no moment has Mr. Dacic or anyone from the SPS, nor has a colleague of Zagradan who's been going through a tirad, so no one in the SPS has ever filed any criminal charges against any media. It's our practice. So, we allow, everyone needs to do their job. How and how he did his job, let the citizens decide. It is not essential that we as parliament deal with the editorial policy of public service. I repeat that. So we don't want to deal with the editorial policy of public service, nor is it our job. It is known who deals with the editorial policy of public service. It is up to us to ensure through these laws independence in the functioning of a public service and that public service can function smoothly. But it is also up to us to point out what counterpart Stojmirovic was talking about, when it comes to management, to management and that the programme board, which is specifically involved in the programme, is just focusing attention on what you were talking about. My colleague Imamovic, I could be the one to bring up a series of data. You've listed one study. Believe me, I have a lot. But we're not complaining again. We're not complaining because we think it's not just a media presence that's only relevant to getting someone's trust. It is important, but it's not only relevant. The most important thing is the conversation with the citizens, and the most important thing is that the citizens trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1814	Mr. Milicevic, thank you. It's been two minutes. National MP Stanislav Janosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1815	Thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity to address me. I am reporting on the basis of the above-mentioned amendment, which I do not agree with, not because I did not understand what the amendment promoter in one part tried to read or because I read the Government's opinion on this amendment, but because of the subjective attitude that applies and is trying to replace the thesis in some way. What's this about? Today we have the opportunity to track more than a hundred channels and you can devote yourself to some show, program minute, five, 24 minutes, an hour. Why do you have 24 minutes of your time to devote yourself to a show? Because there are now certain comedians, the leaders who run the show and give themselves the right to comment on the MPs, and so is our colleague Jovanovic from PuPS who says he is one of the seven grandfathers in Kališ who plays chess, and he also says that he is a member of those who touch bread, and then he says to a colleague that he is one of those who closes the window on the bus. Is that the objectivity and democracy of the reporting that you stand for? Is it possible that this comedian, his employer, or his television station, represents the view that pensioners today are bread eaters? And what does that even mean? Can anyone explain to me what that means and what objectivity is? We don't stand for it. We are proud of the citizens of Serbia who have made it possible for Serbia to reform, financial reform. The comedian offended a million and 717 thousand citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including, of course, Albanians and Hungarians and Serbs and Roma, all pensioners. It is not the only thing that in its "24 minutes" modest is able to do. He called our colleague Tasovec a raccoon ironman and then a sour mouse. Do you listen to these syntaxes and those epithets sent to the MPs? Why? Just because he talked in the morning program about dehumanising the President of the Republic, and afterwards he addressed the prime minister with a question which, of course, was not in his study and said like this – do you want the Prime Minister to chop up some more dehumanization for you and do you love blood? As the issue arises in the background, the text goes with headlines, newspaper cutlets instructed by their Dragan, where he is in the worst possible way Satanised, dehumanised President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic. Is that the objectivity you stand for? Well, we absolutely don't. And I'm sorry some people think they're doing a good job that way. Maybe they just hope to get an apartment from their Dragan, because the steam they're up for – the more real estate, the better, because none of them are for waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1816	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm in favour of this amendment not being accepted because because of the leadership of RTS I wouldn't give them that dinar either. So, on Bujosevic, Nenada Lj. Stefanovic, the wife of Borko Stefanovic, who is employed there, I would not give them that dinar either. I'll explain why. I think RTS is independent of the government, the current government, but it certainly isn't from the former. And now imagine when Borko Stefanovic raises his shit and raises a noise against RTS that is allegedly biased in our favor. Well, it's not my wife who works at RTS, it's his wife. Until recently, the wife of Jeremic, who left RTS herself, has been editing "Dnevnik", the most important information show for many years. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you should consider where RTS can make his own money. First, I was talking about marketing that steals fake cross-border television. As you have seen, RTS has never objected to this, so if this tycoon media, false, cross-border, contrary to the Law, 27, on advertising, steals 50m euros, at least a fifth of that marketing would fall to RTS. Number two. Surely you who watch football and basketball have noticed that the most important sports events do not transmit RTS. I have an answer here to my question that it's supposed to be expensive for RTS to buy sports rights. Under the Law on Electronic Media, the most important events that need to be determined by REM, which does not do so every year, can only be transmitted by media that cover the whole market of the Republic of Serbia, and these are certainly not fake cross-border channels of the type "New S", N1 and so on, which transmit unauthorized, contrary to the law, the most important event, thus obtaining subscribers on the one hand, and on the other hand the most expensive commercial programme is the marketing programme that is broadcast before the game and at halftime. Let's say, during one game, if they broadcast 10 minutes in halftime, RTS has 600 seconds, they'd make about 60,000 euros per price list. Imagine that such events in basketball, volleyball, football are safe during the year 50, so RTS misses an opportunity to earn three million euros. Sports programs, they even bought and told them expensive, but they bought from "Darrekt Media". I have an answer here to my question, Bujosevic, who I say I wouldn't give him a dime, but to the installers, the cameramen, the RTS employees, I would certainly give it to a thousand, but Bujosevic wouldn't give a penny, because he has all kinds of secrets and other contracts, I have one here, if he had a contract with the "Darrekt Media" about basketball games, women's and men's, European championships and so on. And in the end, he tells me, because I'm looking for information: "The rights are bought out of commercial income money". Look, first he says he didn't have the money to buy, but he had the money to buy more expensive, then he has commercial revenues, he says, "By obtaining the right to transfer, the parties agreed that conditions, data, information regarding the realisation of the contract are a business secret, and that it will not be announced to third parties, except in the case of requests from competent state authorities." At the question of the MP, the public service said it would not give the information it had with the "Darrekt Media" at the time of being led by the one to whom it was, the court banned us from mentioning the name, or the media, so neither will I mention his name. So, RTS could have earned some money on sports rights, could have asked REM to reconsider its role and to make at least 20% of what that media mob stole from it illegally. The third thing, if you've noticed, the most important series and RTS shows are being broadcast, they're taking over fake cross-border television, and the RTS that heats up all these shows doesn't object at all that their product is being broadcast and downloaded on such televisions. So RTS had reserves, internal reserves that I made that money, but RTS refused because there were probably secret or semi-secret agreements between the tycoon media mafia and the RTS leadership. That's why I'm saying that I wouldn't give RTS a dime, but I'm going to vote for a legal solution, because it's about cameramen, installers, employees of journalists, reporters, etc. This should be voted on because it is not their fault that "Yellow Bujke" left the money to the tycoon mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1818	The word has Alexander Martinovic. Just a question, Mr. Martinovic, do you want to talk, waste group time or an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1819	Since the authorised representative is not in the O.R., I will speak as president of the parliamentary group. Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this debate in particular, I would like to refer to the discussions of my fellow Members of the Parliament group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", above all my distinguished young colleagues who really spoke great about this topic today and when we had a principle debate. Speaking of the media and the media campaign against Alexander Vukic, above all, but also against the Republic of Serbia, against the Serb people in Republika Srpska, Montenegro, I would like to say that a media campaign is under way against the city authorities in Belgrade and that we are witnessing some kind of artillery preparations for the Belgrade elections, which will be held in early 2022. Why do I say that? As for you, esteemed MPs, and for you Serbian citizens, it is likely that, a few days ago, a one reportedly, free-minded Croatian journalist, Boris Dežulovic, who gave an interview to one of Gilas's printed media, after the court banned us from mentioning his name, here I am not going to tell which list it is, but in any case it is a weekly who is absolutely under the control of Dragan Gilas. There is Mr. Boris Dežulovic, reportedly a free-minded Croatian journalist, as democratically oriented as Dragan Djilas, a citizen-oriented citizen like Dragan Gilas, European-oriented just like Dragan Gilas, says of our capital: "Belgrade is simply not a city anymore. It's a little bigger cassaba, Dubai for the poor or Jagodina for the rich. It is that in Belgrade, every single idea of the city has been systematically annulled, not only by the monster, fake Baron Stefan Minhauzen, which actually means Stefan Nemania, which says: "on the cannon sole in front of the railway station, the moldy and the whites of the province's "Belgrade on Water", and the rest of the pseudo-urban, plastic jewelry, which makes Belgrade exactly as big as that of Jagodina, the great city, made that Palmina giraffe." This is just part of his interview for this Gilas medium. So it is quite clear that this free-minded Croatian journalist has already joined the 2022 Belgrade elections campaign and, of course, on the side of his colleague and friend, perhaps business associate Dragan Gilas. Why do I mention Devolovic? Because Dežulovic, ladies and gentlemen, is the MPs, although he was represented as being free, that for peace on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, he was against the 90s policy of Franjo Tudjman, Mr Boris Dežulovic, as you probably know, was one of the founders of the famous Split newspaper Feral Tribjun. In 1999, Feral Tribjun, in the wake of NATO aggression on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and Boris Dežulovic, if I am not mistaken, was the editor-in-chief of Feral Tribjun, on the front page reportedly undermining the NATO pact, published a photograph of an American bomber who bombed Serbia-Montenegro titled "Down the American Bomb". At first glance, it seems that Boris Dežulovic opposed NATO's bombing, but when you read the text hidden behind this front page then you actually see that Boris Dežulovic, and in 1999, with this front page of Feral Tribune, which is seen in the US, I think this is F16, and on which he writes "Down the American Bomb" in fact all-out support for the bombing of Serbia-Montenegro, including this one of ours, as he says, the barracks or Dubai for the poor, the city of Belgrade. One more thing I want to say is, these older ones like Mark Atlagic and me know, but to say about these younger MPs in 1999, when it happened, that is, when NATO started bombing the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia right at the beginning of the bombing, an amazing thing happened, from this perspective now incredible, but I will tell you that it was because I was a witness to that time and I remember well who was making statements and who supported it, and who opposed the bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, at the beginning of NATO aggression on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then Croatian Foreign Minister Mate Granic supported all-outer NATO, as they said then, humanitarian air intervention in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Maybe you remember that, too, and you remember for sure, Mr. Dacic. Then an incredible thing happened. Mate Granic supports NATO's aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Boris Dežulovic via Feral Tribjun, with this allegedly sneering titled "Down the American Bomb", also supports NATO's aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and it is advertised by the then president of Croatia, already very sick, and the same year will die, Franjo Tudjman, calling for the audience of the then ambassador of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in Zagreb, Mr Veljko Knezevic and tells him, watch out for Franjo Tudjman, says the ambassador of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in Zagreb that Croatia's official position is not to support NATO intervention in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. So, Franjo Tudjman, this Franjo Tudjman, who we all know was doing to Serbs in Croatia, but also to Serbs in BiH, because the Croatian army was constantly present in BiH from 1991 to 1995, this and such Franjo Tudjman do not support NATO intervention in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and NATO bombing, but therefore this intervention and this bombing is all-incredantly supported, in addition to Mate Granic, and this free-minded, civil, peaceful, European-oriented, free-minded Croatian journalist Boris Dežulovic. Why am I saying all this? Because when an interview with Boris Dežulovic appeared, where he described our capital with the worst possible words, a large number, hundreds, perhaps thousands of haters, Alexander Vukic, the SNS hater, the hater of his own people, the autoskiller, who look forward to any anti-Serbian statement that comes from Serbia or the white world. I want to remind them, who also survived NATO bombing in 1999, that when I thank Boris Dežulovic, thinking that they are doing damage to Aleksandr Vukic, thinking that they are getting additional arguments for everything that Alexander Vukic and everything that SNS has done for the city of Belgrade, from the project "Belgrade on water", the creation of façades, the construction of new factories, the introduction of investors, the opening of new jobs etc., I want to remind them that before supporting Boris Dežulovic and various Boris Dezulovic who, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, will report to the Belgrade elections almost daily of course on the part of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Bosa Obradovic, and others alike, I just want to remind them that they and their children and their families were exposed to the death of their lives, while they were hiding in the village of Serbia, while they were hiding with their head of Serbia, while they were hiding with their lives. Think of those who hate Alexander Vukic before using Twitter or otherwise supporting various Dejulovicians and similar to them, what do you think would you so earnestly support him that someone in your family doesn't let God lose his life, as it happened, unfortunately, over three thousand victims of NATO bombing, that someone from your family, one of your loved ones, lost their lives in NATO bombing in 1999. That is why I am telling you, MPs, first of all, my distinguished colleagues from the Parliamentary Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, be ready for a campaign for the Belgrade elections where they will try to break the spine of Serbia, break the spine of the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic and all of us together because they will try through the Belgrade elections, the parliamentary elections cannot win, the presidential elections cannot win that I do not know what Majic, Dragan Bjeloglic, or ask God whom, but will try to break the spine of everything that is advanced and everything that Alexander Vukic and we who support him well for both the city of Belgrade and the state of Serbia and for the Serbian people and in Croatia and in Montenegro and wherever Serbs live. So I'm distracting you, there's no mingling, there's no sleeping, there's no sleeping, there's no sleeping. We'll be easy to figure out that the campaign for the Belgrade elections has started, and as you can see, what Boris Dežulovic did is just preparing for what's waiting for us. Expect every day and every month some new Dežulovici who will laugh at all the good and advanced things we have done in Belgrade and Serbia, and you who support these same Dežulovici put a little finger on the head and consider whether you mean well not to Alexander Vukic and SNS, but to yourself and your children.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1820	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I also thank him for starting this topic, because I often talk about it and say that I think that a frontal attack that will surely follow in 2022 should be answered in such a way that the united Serbia cannot be won, and that includes the unity of all of us who are in the ruling coalition, regardless of which parliamentary groups we belong. I thank another Mr. Martinovic. Let's move on with the list of MPs. I don't know if Zoran Tomic's in the O.R.? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1821	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with Associates...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1822	I'm sorry, just to remind you once again, there's still 17 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1823	Thank you. Dear ministers with co-operation, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, we have before us a discussion on the amendment tabled for Article 2 of the Law on the Amendments to the Law on the Temporary Regulation of the Method of Payment of Public Media Service Fees. As a man who deals with science, every time I express certain attitudes, I try to support that argument. It is specifically said here that the proposal to change the words "255 dinars" to "one dinar", i.e. by this act, to threaten the business and the work of public service, which is in fact the public service of all Serbian citizens. Their argument given by this amendment may be considered flat-rate and subjective, not supported by any particular arguments and facts, but also by what is interesting, not only here, but also by this mole of the extra-parliamentary opposition when criticising the work of RTS, or public services, that they always bind to politics and why they are not to the extent that they are used to being in these services. You know how, it was a time when Dragan Gilas and his associates were the editors-in-chief of these public services, when they decided who would be able to host them, which shows were adequate to broadcast and which ones were not. This bill actually allows to raise the degree of public media independence, because it actually shows here that Serbian citizens are the ones who directly finance the work of public media, i.e. RTS and RTTV, and it is not actually the Republic of Serbia that would allocate funds from the budget. What I'm trying to say is that RTS is not just a political show, RTS has a much wider range of contents that offer both educational and cultural and sports content, especially the show, that is, a large number of correspondence that function in Serbia, thanks to which and whose work we can know what is happening in every corner of our country and that we actually get to know the beauty of our Republic of Serbia, which I'm not sure about, and a good part of the citizens, are aware of what it is, so we often decide to fly out of Serbia, and not to stay in Serbia. I'm particularly glad because RTS now has special science-related channels, for other segments, their own science-related science-related science-related science-related science-based science-based programs, so it's not the only one who can exclusively deal with scientific shows and that everyone has to buy their own shows and play them. We have talented young people, young scientists, young roosters, who right through RTS can put their ideas on promoting science and through such shows to provide, and this is exactly how getting the funds and ensuring the work of these services will allow us, in addition to the beauty of our Serbia, to learn about the beauty of our citizens and young people who have wonderful minds and who best represent us everywhere in the world. I, as well as my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – We will not support this amendment for our children, because absolutely with what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has said that accepting this amendment threatens the work of this public service, and absolutely not for putting their work at risk, but, as previous colleagues have said, to stimulate RTS workers, to be as creative as possible, and to make the content that will be placed through RTS even better, and the message to Gilas's gang opposition, so people create a program, be on the ground, be with the citizens, work as Alexander Vukic, have results like Aleksandar Vukic, and you will come to the media scene is no problem, but don't just criticise and do not only that politics comes down to us to remove Vukic, so we will all be easy. Well, we see how easy you'll be. You form some united opposition, you have not even arrived to register it properly, you have already begun to divide, you have ruined it, and I am quite interested in it, I can't wait to see the reactions of Dragan Gilas, the editor-in-chief of his media, how he will react to Mike Aleksic's visitation, Jeremy's public tonight on RTS, because obviously if they don't get the consent of his editor-in-chief to suffer the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1824	Thank you. Let me just remind you once again how much time there is until the end, about 14 minutes. There are two other registered MPs, so I want to warn you that you respect the time, so that another MP can speak, Vladimir Djukanovic. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1825	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be brief and leave my colleague Djukanovic with the final word on the discussion concerning this amendment submitted by the SDA parliamentary group. Right at the beginning to say that, really, as a man, I cannot first of all support your amendment for a simple reason because, although you have every right to write this amendment, you are referring to the objectivity of the public service, you were not objective when you took that argument of objectivity, as a reason why you are asking to cut to a single tax that citizens should pay. The comparison works, I'm just going to give one small parameter to this kind of story. In BiH, which you also refer to, all public tax services have been paid since 2013, 7.5 KM. That's about 400 dinars. So, with this increase to 299 dinars, another 100 dinars is the difference between BiH and BiH. This refers to federal television, shared television and RTVRS. Therefore, it is only one of the arguments that should be respected in this case, and by placing this discussion exclusively in the political focus, in the focus of the informative activity of the public service, we are not sure objective when we talk about it, because we know what RTS represents and how important it is as a symbol of our society and how important it is in the region, how much this same RTS is seen in Banjaluca, but also in Sarajevo, Mostar, for free of charge on these different cable operators, etc. and contributes to the integration and trust and different aspects and values that every nation that lives in these areas has. This should be known, not only from some narrow party charter Sarajevo political needs to comment and attack RTS because RTS is a symbol not only of the Serbian state, but of a serious and professional way of working where a huge number of professionals work. I'm just going to give an example of how you're wrong. On Saturdays and Sundays, right after the central news show we have a play programme, we always have shows. I don't know if you've noticed, the "Kost" series is now being broadcast, the screenwriter is a famous actor, Banja Luka, Belgrade, our Nikola Pejakovic. I don't know if you saw the last show on Sunday. Since you have the option and the possibility to rewind the channel, I would strongly advise you to look at the scene so I will now describe how Goran Sultanovic, who plays the role of the character Dide, a neighbour who was guarding Mesa during the war in Banjaluca, BiH. Mesha, who is Muslim or Bosniak, as the Muslims in BiH declare themselves and kept his house in the basement and maintains and wait for Mesha to come somewhere from the west to her house, which they kept. In the basement of that house is rented by Kosta Vosuša, actor Jovo Maksic, a boy who brought his family or only his sister from Knin, after his father and mother were killed on the Petrovic road. What's the final scene on the show, on Sunday, for which our Nikola Pejakovic wrote the script? The mixture comes to Banja Luka and Kosta speaks, paints his house and greets him, and he tells him to cross upstairs, not to live in the basement. However, Mesa came to Banja Luka and unfortunately died in those few days, and dida (Goran Sultanovic) comes to his bed and reads his letter, the last letter he wrote. In this letter, Meša (Actor Bora Nenic) is forgiven and finally says that the house leaves Kosti Speakushi and tells his friend Didi – it's his house, I want to leave him, because he experienced it, it's your fault and me, because we didn't know we were running the former common state. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1826	Mr. Imamovic on what grounds? It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1827	Thank you, Your Honor. I really don't know why the previous colleague, the previous speaker, concluded that I spoke by someone, as he said, in Sarajevo, I didn't realize it, but here in my explanation of the amendment I called for a violation of the law of the Republic of Serbia by RTS and by the RTS programme board and that if that programme committee violates the laws of Serbia, I don't know how you found the motivation, where you saw the motivation you linked to Sarajevo or maybe your wish was just to talk about Sarajevo. So, the amendment, I'm going to quote another very interesting statement: "Television subscription, as I promised the citizens of Serbia, will be abolished because I don't belong to that type of people who have been misleading citizens for 12 years and engaged in marketing tricks. It's our duty and we won't give up on it. “ The president of your party, Alexander Vukic, said, and transferred it to RTS on May 23, 2013. So, I don't see the reason why you here accuse us of jeopardizing RTS, when this is what your party president announced, and RTS doesn't just live on a subscription, that we understand each other, lives on budget donations, I'm sure there will be one this year, too, RTS is also charging over cable operators. So no one here is jeopardizing the existence of RTS, but we simply want to make RTS fight in a fair and democratic media game for the favor of viewers and for a greater subscription. Then when RTS does its task as a public media service, I'm sure that citizens with full confidence will show it themselves, as the British BBS do, trust with an increase in the subscription. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1828	Thank you, Mr. Imamovic. Time's up. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't get the best idea of a previous colleague who spoke, and how did Alexander Vukic destroy RTS? You mention his 2013 statement that his intention is to, apparently, as you say, which I think absolutely is not true, by abolishing the RTS subscription to destroy that media house. Well, is RTS destroyed? Not that I know of. What did Alexander Vukitch end up destroying? He didn't destroy anything at all. You accuse him of wanting to destroy RTS just as others accuse him of betraying Kosovo and Metohija, well, he's about to betray Serbs in Republika Srpska, so he's about to betray the Serbs in Montenegro. I am now asking one, not you, one rhetorical question, and what was destroyed during the reign of Alexander Vukic? What part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia or Serbian countries has Alexander Vukic lost? What did he do wrong for Serbia, Alexander Vukic, except that he rebirthed Serbia in both political and economic, and financial, and scientific and cultural terms? How can he be the destroyer of someone who every day, even at the time of the pandemic, but literally every day opens new factories, opens new jobs and brings investors, both domestic and foreign? Just days and yesterday, so literally within 48 hours, two practically close to Belgrade two new factories were opened, thanks to Alexander Vukic. There's one in India, and the other one's in Sremska Mitrovica. All other factories, hundreds of other factories, hundreds of thousands of jobs, I don't even need to talk about because people's MPs and citizens of Serbia know it very well. I'm saying that the attempt of all those who oppose Alexander Vukic's politics to portray him as some kind of scarecrow that he wants to destroy, destroy, sell, betray, etc. simply falls into the water before the fact that Alexander Vukic is all the opposite of what you put on him. He didn't destroy anything, he didn't betray anything, he made it possible for Serbian citizens to live a better life. Of course, we are all aware that Serbia's citizens continue to have a hard time living, but he has made a huge effort to get Serbia out of the mold and mud in which it was in 2012, including in 2013 which the previous speaker mentioned little. All of this that we are witnessing today in this debate in detail is yet nothing but preparation for what is due to happen in 2022. So wise people listen to the messages of time in time. It is clear that all that is said today in the National Assembly and all that is broadcast or written on Gilasov and Šolak's media is, in fact, a large artillery, media political preparation for what should happen to us in 2022, or what they want to see happen to Serbia in 2022. It is to return to power the same ones who brought Serbia into this mud and into that mud that it was in until 2012. Therefore, the Electoral Group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, with all its strength, will fight those who would like to return the wheel of history, that everything is destroyed in Serbia, that there are no new jobs, that there are no more lives, that no one can work except Dragan Gilas and his business partners. Such a Serbia is the past. We are in favour of a new, nicer, happier, more advanced Serbia and I am convinced that those who would like to stop this Serbia in 2022 will absolutely not succeed in it whether they are here in Serbia or come from democratic and European Split, as the few mentioned Boris Dežulovic or from any other European or world destination. Simply, Serbian citizens no longer accept such a policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1830	Thank you. Mr. Imamovic, I assume you're looking for a replica? I'd like to ask you to let us finish slowly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1831	I didn't mention it, nor did I charge in my speech. I don't know how you heard it or if you could hear it, but I'm sure you're not Alexander Wolfie that destroyed RTS in this case. We can return the rock of the note and see exactly what I said when it comes to Alexander Wolfie. I quoted his statement that he had just passed on to RTS, and I quoted it from word to word and regarding the termination of the TV subscription to RTS. Therefore, given that we are honored to want to destroy RTS, that we want to put out RTS as much as we can say that the destruction and announcement made by the president, given that we have given the amendment which we return to the promise made to the citizens in 2012, was reminded of it on 23 May 2013. So this is about a quote from the president of your party. If you could have heard that we accused Alexander Vukic of destroying, you could have only heard it in your subconscious. I said that RTS, as it is today, does not deserve the support of the National Assembly to increase the subscription to the burden of citizens, since RTS does not play its role as a public media service in the way it should be done and in the way that the laws of the Constitution of this country foresee it. Now it turns out that I here defend the Constitution and the laws of this country from you, that I defend the legality of the business of RTS and the constitutionality of the business of RTS from you. I didn't call you back. I called the RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1832	Mr. Imamovic, two minutes are up. Thank you. I'm sorry, it's been two minutes, so I shut you down. Alexander Martinovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1833	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. You told Mr. Imamovic that Aleksandar Vukic, in his 2013 statement on the suspension of the RTS tax, was actually trying to destroy RTS. I want to say something else. No matter how different you and I are in the interpretations of this statement, I deeply appreciate and respect you, if nothing else then because, together with your party and along with your coalition partners with whom you are sitting in the parliamentary group, you went to the parliamentary elections, which took place on 21 June this year, and you showed that you respected the state where you live and that you gave the elections legitimacy and these elections and this assembly of the National Assembly. I want to tell you that there's no need to heat up an international or interfaith atmosphere here. I don't think you or we need this. Neither Serbs nor Bosniaks need that. What both Serbs and Bosniaks should be terrified of, is that God will not be given back to power by the same time that the Serbs and you Bosniaks have been robbed by 2012 and everything has been few, and 25 and 100 and 200 and 500 and 600 and 800 and ask God how many millions of euros. We are not the enemies of Bosniaks and of you as MPs, nor should you experience SNS MPs as your political opponents and as your enemies. If you get into the essence of things, you will see that we all have, I will not say the enemies, but someone who has seriously threatened the economic and financial interests of both the Serbian and Bosniak people and that we should all work together, among other things, to create a constructive atmosphere and dialogue in this House, to send a message to the citizens that it is very important that we do everything that is up to us, that the Serbs and the Bosniaks and the Albanians and the Hungarians and all the other citizens of Serbia do not get a chance to do it again in 2022.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-17-0.u1834	I thank Mr. Martinovic. We've exhausted the list of registered speakers. This concludes the search of all amendments. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. As I had just announced to Article 87, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, I order Thursday, December 17th, 2020, starting at 17.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the agendas of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Also, let me just inform you that according to our agreements at the College, I just called the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on December 26th, 2020, on Saturday. I'm sorry, but we have to do as we announced to get everything on the agenda by December 29th, when we run out of regular sessions. So, for a session on December 26th, it's a review of the report on the work of independent institutions. This is what the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information, the Commissioner for Equality and the DRI is referring to. Only with those agenda points. Then we'll have 27 with an extra one, and as you know, we've already got an appointment session. That's why I announced this to you so you could plan. In any case, on the 24th afternoon, or evening and 25th, we don't work because of Catholic Christmas. At 1700 hours is a vote. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 170 MPs are present in the hall right now, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft laws, that is, that the amendments submitted have become an integral part of the bill, the National Assembly will decide on these draft laws only in general. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Point 1. - I am putting the draft law on digital property to the vote on the Digital Property Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181 for – 179 did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a proposal for a law on digital property. Point 2. - I would like to put to the vote a bill on fiscalization, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 181 in total for – 181. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a fiscalization law. Point 3. – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the return of property and notification I am placing on the vote the bill, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 184, for – 181, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reimbursement of Disposal of Assets and Compensation. Fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 186, for – 182, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists. The fifth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 187, for – 182, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. The sixth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 187, for – 182, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. The seventh item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 188, for – 183, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. The eighth point of the agenda. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 188, for – 182, six MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. The ninth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 188, for – 183, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. The tenth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 188, for – 183, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act. Eleventh point of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 188, for – 183, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property. 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Interim Regulation on the Payment of Taxes for Public Media Services Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the provisional regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 188, for – 177, versus – five, were not voted by six MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 188, for – 15, were not voted by 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kucevic, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 188, for – five, against – three, did not vote 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the provisional regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 188 votes, for – 177, against – five, did not vote – six MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Temporary Editing of How to Charge a Tax for Public Media Service. The 13th item of the agenda. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on joint procurement of medical resources, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Thank you. A total of 188 votes, for – 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Point 14 of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit in order to implement the project "Belgrade on Water", in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 188 votes, for – 182, did not vote – six MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill provides for this law to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 188 votes, for – 183, did not vote – five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit in order to implement the project "Belgrade on Water", in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 188 votes, for – 183, did not vote – five MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the draft law amending the Law on the definition of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Point 15 of the agenda. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105, paragraph 3. 4) and 6) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing and the conclusion and demand of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 188 votes, for – 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. The 16th point of the agenda. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the pandemic effect of Kovid - 19 caused by the SARS-CV-2 virus, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, for – 183, did not vote – four MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the bill on the establishment of a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy for the mitigation of the pandemic of Kovid - 19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. The 17th item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty "Connected School in Serbia" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, for – 182, were not voted by five MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill confirming the "Connected School in Serbia" Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search, before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, mostly votes by all MPs, exercise electoral authority. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We're moving to the 18th point of the agenda. I am putting the motion to elect Dr. Bojan Dimitrijevic as member of the Fiscal Council. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, in favour – 182, did not vote - five MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, has chosen Dr Bojan Dimitrijevic as a member of the Fiscal Council. Allow me to congratulate Dr Bojana Dimitrijevic on my behalf on the election of a member of the Fiscal Council and wish him much success in his work. We're going to the 19th agenda. I remind you that the Law on Electronic Media has established that each authorised candidate for members of the Council proposes a list of two candidates, and the National Assembly selects one member from each list. We're moving on to a decision. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the REM Council, on a proposal from the National Assembly's competent committee. The candidates for the election of one member of the Council are Olivera Zekic and Milos Gajovic, on a proposal from the National Assembly's committee. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. A member of the Council has been elected a candidate who receives most of the votes of all MPs. One, I put the motion to elect Olivera Zekic as a member of the REM Council. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, in favour – 176, did not vote - 11 MPs. I am voting to elect Milos Gajević as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I ask the people's followers to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 187, for – three, did not vote 184. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Oliver Zekic as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body, on a proposal from the National Assembly's competent board. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on the proposal of churches and religious communities. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council on the proposal of churches and religious communities are Aleksandra Jankovic and Snezana Miljkovic. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. A member of the Council has been elected a candidate who receives most of the votes of all MPs. Under 1. – I am voting on the proposal to elect Aleksandra Jankovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 187, for – 179, did not vote – eight. Under 2. – I am voting on the proposal to elect Snezana Miljkovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 187, for – one, did not vote – 186. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, has chosen Aleksandra Jankovic on the proposal of churches and religious communities. Allow me to congratulate Olivera Zekić and Aleksandra Jankovic in the election for members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and wish them success in the work. The 20th item of the agenda. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 187, for – 182, did not vote – five. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors by majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate Dr Miladin Kovacevic, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, on his election as a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council and to wish him much success in his work. Dear People's MPs, I remind you that members of the Fiscal Council, pursuant to Article 926(4). The law on the budget system, they take an oath before the National Assembly, which takes office. I call on Dr Bojan Dimitrijevic, the elected member of the Fiscal Council, to approach to take the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and a member of the Fiscal Council repeats it. ) "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia. I promise to respect the constitution and the laws. I pledge to honor my duty to do my duty independently, honestly, and to the welfare of the present and future generations. “ I ask the selected member of the Fiscal Council to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate you, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, on the election of a member of the Fiscal Council and wish you a lot of success in your work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020.
