ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72337	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the twenty-sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 71 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. We continue to work and move on to a common principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 6 and 9 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the government are invited to attend, and today they will be with us at one part of the session of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on the determination of the status of newborn children suspected of missing from the maternity home in the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on International Maintenance of Children and Other Family Members. The word has a representative of the proponent, Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72338	Thank you, the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, there is also a law before us today that regulates matter that has in a very difficult way harassed the public of the Republic of Serbia in the last few decades. There have been a lot of controversy over the situation and cases of missing children, and there have been a lot of conversations in our society. There were conversations in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, in some previous times, there was not enough preparedness or strength to deal with this problem that very often, in many cases, dates back to the former SFRY period, something from the time of the SRJ. So some cases happened decades ago, but they continue to be a painful point of our society and, of course, families that may have lost their children. I'm saying maybe because this is the law that needs to give us some of the possibilities and instruments to determine the facts and circumstances in a faster procedure. In fact, the European Court of Human Rights in 2013, on the basis of one of the families' claims, has reached a verdict requiring the Republic of Serbia to establish in a fair way the facts and circumstances for each of the missing children cases and in this particular case found that the applicant was right, i.e. that he was violated the right to family life and obliged the Republic of Serbia to pay the applicant the exact amount determined on behalf of the compensation for immaterial damage and to establish an appropriate mechanism and independent body with appropriate powers. In 2018, the government sent to the National Assembly a bill on the process of determining the status of newborn children suspected of missing in maternity sites in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in different periods, and this text was drawn up by a special Working Group and gave the opinion and opinion to the Department for the Implementation of the European Court of Human Rights and on which the text is still being discussed today. The aim of the proposal for this law is to establish in a special two-stage procedure before the competent courts the facts on the basis of which the status of children suspected to have disappeared in maternity homes in the Republic of Serbia and to fulfil the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and to mention the European Court of Human Rights rulings. It also leaves the possibility of exercising the right to a fair compensation of immaterial damage due to a violation of the right to family life. The procedure is unilateral. It is therefore initiated by a proposal from the proposer within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, with the assumption that the parent had previously addressed the state authorities or maternity care facility precisely in order to prevent the abuse of this law in any way. The rules of out-of-party proceedings shall apply if the law is not otherwise laid down, because we consider this to be the most comprehensive for determining the facts which are subject to this requirement. The Court of Justice shall be empowered to carry out all the means of evidence provided for in the Law on a litigation procedure. The Court shall act in accordance with the investigation principle, subject to the obligation to examine all facts and to carry out the necessary evidence. An increased process discipline is being established. Witnesses and warlocks are threatened with punishment unless they provide skill, or testimony. State and other bodies, as well as natural and other legal persons, are obliged to meet all requirements of the court relating to this matter under threat of punishment and to provide all information and information that they may have relating to potentially missing children. The procedure is urgent. The conduct of investigative actions in the process, and at the request of the court, will be carried out by specially trained police officers and certain reliefs regarding taxis and charges for officials have been established. As far as further proceedings are concerned, if the proceedings result in the fact that the child was missing on the basis of an act of crime, a criminal complaint is immediately filed to the D.A.'s D.A. and the Ministry of Justice, and we believe that the Republic's Prosecutor's Office, since this was one of the important issues about an outdated procedure, because, you know, we have cases here that were done 40 years ago, when we were hard to see it as a criminal offence, a large number of these crimes, if not all of them, may have been outdated in 2009, and some in 2010, we are talking about those who were committed, potential crimes, today we could not talk about criminal prosecution. However, our position, the Department of Justice and Home Affairs, is that this is not about a final crime. So it's a crime that's still going on. So, the violation of the right to family life, because we believe that in such a way we allow the prosecution, i.e. primarily the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, to give binding instructions to the prosecutions, that in any case when it is established that there is a fundamental suspicion that a criminal act has been committed, because the child is so missing, that an investigation is immediately launched that will do everything possible to determine the facts and circumstances, i.e. to take further criminal action of those persons who could participate, or participate. This court case may have, I say, a solution, a final solution which it says next. So he refuses the proposal. So these can be the outcomes, that the proposal is rejected if it is proven that the child is not missing. It may adopt a proposal and determine the status of a missing person in such a way as to determine the facts of the death of a child or determine the facts that explain what happened to the missing child, and, according to the European Court of Justice, it is obliged to determine which institution is responsible for the disappearance of the child or to establish that it is not possible to determine the status of the missing child. I'm not going to tell you that everything is going to be easy and that we're going to be able to solve everything, especially in cases where the perpetrators of a potential crime may not even be alive anymore and it's very difficult to determine something that happened 40 years ago, without documentation in countries that no longer exist, in health institutions that may have completely changed the way of their organization and where people who were directly directed to this may not only be alive, there may be no more documentation that speaks of it in any way. So these are all possibilities. The mechanism says that if, therefore, the state or court has not found it impossible to determine the status of the missing child at the proposal's request, a cash compensation for violation of the right to family life of no more than 10,000 euros may be awarded. Why 10,000 euros? Because it was also the verdict of the European Court of Human Rights. We stuck to what the European Court of Justice said, so the letters of judgment and everything the European Court of Justice has said, let's say, in this way and in domestic legislation, that is, if the National Assembly adopts this bill. We think, of course, no one can say, no one puts that price. There were a few comments I heard - how much one child cost. So, how much does one kid cost? What's that number? There's no price, there's no number. This is only the compensation of a state that is trying to help families who may have been in a completely different country 30 or 40 years ago in the SFRY, but also in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, may have lost track of what happened to that child, claiming that the child was dead at the time. Maybe it's a child and it's gone, but since it can't be determined, it's just helping the family, support in a situation where we can't really get to all the facts and circumstances that tell us exactly what happened to that child. In some cases, it will be possible. In some cases and now the investigation is ongoing, and I am convinced that this will facilitate the situation, that it will ease pain and what is very important, and that the Republic of Serbia has found a mechanism to continue the criminal investigation in each case and in each case where there is a suspicion that a crime has been committed. That's very important. I hope the National Assembly supports this bill. I'm saying, it's a matter that's heavy for each of us, which is difficult for our country, and at least we have the strength to deal with it today. There have been many conversations with parent associations, there have been many conversations with professional associations, there have been many conversations with experts from this area, and this is a way to answer some questions in a quick and efficient way. This is one way for us to bring back justice to parents who have been waiting for questions for many years, and I hope that, with effective mechanisms and with the determination of these facts, we will succeed at least to relieve some pain to people who have waited many years and many decades for answers to these questions. As regards the second law, the draft law confirming the Convention on the International Implementation of Child Maintenance and Other Family Members, this establishes mechanisms for the collection of alimony in cases where the maintenance debtor is abroad. We aim to ensure an effective international achievement of the support of children and other family members, particularly through the establishment of a comprehensive system of co-operation between the authorities of the Contracting States and the submission of requests for decisions on maintenance, security of recognition, enforcement of maintenance decisions and effective measures for the swift implementation of the maintenance decision. This will give us a standardised and modern system of co-operation between countries in this area, a single central authority that receives and sends requests, standardisation of necessary documents, the obligation of the central authorities and all other competent authorities to act quickly in all types of procedures, precise and reasonable deadlines for notification of the status of requests, tax-based requirements that can be filed and the unification of conditions for the recognition of enforcement of decisions. I hope that this will make it easier, of course, for anyone not to avoid paying for the alimony, that both children and other family members will always have the fulfilment of those obligations that belong to them by law and, of course, to facilitate our co-operation in once very complex international cases, as we have recently had the opportunity to see, to say, that have touched the citizens of our country. I hope that in the day of voting we will have the support of the National Assembly for these two laws and, above all, this first law is not an easy topic for us, I believe that this will be the first significant step in making progress in achieving the highest ideal that we need to achieve, and that is justice for parents of potentially missing children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72339	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, indeed today in the National Assembly is a strange situation. Someone would say that if one such law was to be passed for so long, a basic act would come to the Assembly, a comprehensive one that would solve all these problems, and in this bill on determining the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia, we do not see any essential solutions and we do not see that the state has sufficiently committed itself to this matter. This in some ways shows that this law is passed only because of the Council of Europe's recommendations and only because of this European Court of Human Rights ruling. So, instead of the state playing its part to identify the problem, to solve the problem in one general way by law, what is a guideline of certain international institutions is being applied here. Until we see an essential examination of this problem, and that it will be worked on thoroughly. More is said here about fulfilling the form, not about the essence, and it shows in some way quite a lack of seriousness in taking these problems into account. It's been a long time since that name was present in our public. About the first time she appeared, there was not so much trust in the truthfulness of such events. It was thought that it was simply that some parents could not reconcile with the fact that their children had passed away after childbirth, so that they were trying in every way possible to find some comfort that this child was still alive, etc. And from the beginning, it didn't get in the right way. In the meantime, the situation has become quite serious. There have been various indications, testimony, and public talk of missing children’s problems, and then the association of these people and the search for the truth of what happened at the end of it all began. So, first of all, with one such situation, therefore, where there was child abduction from maternity care so that after no evidence, without body, without a funeral told these parents that the children had unfortunately died for these and these reasons, there was one thing that I thought was crucial, and that's the connection of some number of persons in these events, or in that activity. So it certainly couldn't have been a situation from case to case, to do something like that on its own, but it was a work so serious. There have been so many cases that it had to be a certain group that is connected to the team, and we are not sure that in this way after 20 or 30 years or more of such events, someone would now expect a serious strategy for finding the culprits to solve these problems, in the end, for the truth about those children who have disappeared from maternity care, a 26 - member act will come to the National Assembly. Perhaps, in my opinion, it would be more normal for the state to recognize the problem, so in collaboration with those people who have some indications, to listen to everything, to have those who are wrong, but I believe that most people are really on track that these things were happening, it might be more normal to work with them if there was a bill that would, in some way, take the first step in solving this problem, not because of that recommendation or judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the serious state would recognise the problem and seek to solve it as best possible in the interests of the citizens of that country, not because it is a guideline, a recommendation or a dictatorship from abroad. Of course, because of those people who went public about it, who founded these associations, they were dissatisfied and of course they reacted so deeply to these public hearings. That's exactly why, because they were supposed to be invited, consulted, to talk to them before the law was passed. We could also hear announcements from some European officials, even from this factory, the EU ambassador to Belgrade, as it is trade, i.e. The problem of missing babies, in fact, became a problem for Europe as well, and then it seems that only when European officials made a statement has it started to solve the problem. In some ways, this law recognises the defeat of the state. So the state admits it's unable to solve these problems. I'll remind you of another situation. Fifteen years ago in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a survey committee was set up to investigate all these cases, collect documentation on these missing children, listen to many doctors and people employed in maternity and police and many others, and then start an investigation afterwards. The survey board has collected a large amount of documentation, but concrete investigations have never occurred. The state has made an appointment, and the executive power and the judiciary has made an appointment. We don't see any further ways, especially through a law like this, to solve this issue. So, if there was a serious intention to deal with this issue, it would start with hearings first, so, to determine this specific period of time, to hear all doctors, all the employees of the maternity wards, all the related persons, so enough is enough to come up with a solution of one particular case, just one, to discover a particular matrix that was all happening, because it's such a serious thing, that really one individual on his own couldn't have had no connection to do such a thing, and that he only did it once, one person, whether from the maternity ward, whether from the doctor or so. This could take a certain period of time, but it is the only concrete way to resolve this issue. The second question is, whether this polygraph, which is often present in our public, applies only to ministers or state officials from the executive government, or whether a polygraph may be used in some investigation? Come on, when we're so sure of that polygraph and it's so reliable, why not use it now, for example. in that investigation? These are just some of the ways in which facts could be found, evidence, and a step in the right direction of solving these problems. Many questions are raised here, and what was most public and what is scandalous in this bill is this sum of 10,000 euros, which will be paid as a fair fee to those parents who in the process prove not to know either what or some justify their indication that their child has been stolen. The problem with this country and this regime is that it thinks everything can be solved. Well, if someone gets paid money, then there's actually going to be a solution to that problem, the end of that process, and someone's going to go outside the Justice Department and say, "We've solved that after 20 or 30 years, so many missing babies." I see it as a potential possibility when this bill is passed. I am not sure that this is justified and that this is normal and that the state is playing its key role in such a process and taking care of the rights of all Serbian citizens. What is still here, also very strange, is said -- a fair cash compensation cannot be settled in excess of 10,000 euros in dinar equivalent to the official middle rate of the NBS. So it's not fixed 10,000 euros. Then the question arises, so in the process one parent will be paid 3,000 euros, someone will pay 5,000 euros, someone will pay 7,000, someone will pay 10,000 euros. So, it's gonna be said by the state that some kid was a little less stolen, so he's gonna get 3,000, and this is where someone's kid got a little more stolen, so he's gonna get 10,000 euros. A complete nebulosis. Of course, and we've heard that and they're right and it's natural, these parents who have been going on for many years to solve this problem, they don't care about money. They care about the truth, and the state has a duty to make it possible for them. If anything, that they're all mistaken now that there are no problems, that it never happened and that everything is true as the doctors told these parents, that these children died, etc. If someone for 20 or 30 years insists on doing so, strives to prove such a thing, search for the truth, it would probably be the most normal thing by the state authorities that they do their best to endure and to address these problems by being key to the consultation of the bill, not like this, but rather the draft law that should solve it. That would be normal. What else is going on here with this cash compensation showing up as a threat? It appears as a threat to some example. a group of hohstapplers, who can see this legal possibility as a way to obtain a certain amount of money by lying that they are, in fact, some of those parents whose children have been taken away, or whose children have disappeared. In this way, the state will make it possible for all this endurance of these parents and their efforts to gather all possible information, documentation, to find out perhaps responsible, to find out more about what happened to their children, to be very compromised, because someone who has nothing to do with it can appear and to seek 10,000 euros in this process by pretending to be one of those parents. It's a possibility that is not predicted here, that no one has thought about. Why would they bring some people into this situation? This way you get somewhere and legalize that child abduction. So the state doesn't offer a solution, it doesn't offer justice, it offers money, which is not normal. And the fact that the European Court of Human Rights brought 10,000 euros to the maximum, we accepted it, we didn't think about it. On the part of the Justice Ministry and the Serbian government in general, this is how it is used to, because there is no reflection on the interests of Serbian citizens, but the fulfillment of dictatorships from abroad. The subsidies in Serbia 10, 15 thousand euros, 70,000 euros we heard the other day, and here the parents are offered 10,000 euros, i.e. up to 10,000 euros. I believe that the intensity of this is to break the solidarity of these parents somewhere, because it is certainly normal and certainly there are many parents among them, who think their children are missing, who are very hard to live and who would make 10,000 euros very helpful in life. The point is, about that way, they buy their silence and give up their search for missing children. We had a situation two years ago when the National Assembly passed a law where it is mandatory to donate organs, except for those people who don't claim to live that they don't want it after death. There we also saw, of course, the possibility, the SRS criticised it, that in this way resolving these things and passing such a law could provide a black market for the authorities and that Serbian citizens' authorities would come down to the resources for, perhaps, the settlement of some abroad, in Western Europe, etc. This way you put the starting price for the child somewhere. As soon as the whole story of the missing children's investigation of any price, or figure, puts a price on the child. Of course, it's hard for the state to participate and, of course, to separate someone from the ministry from their emotions when they're talking about these things and when they're trying to solve it in any way, but this is another extreme. This isn't even rational. This could open up the possibility of a European market for children. As soon as the price is put, that's it. Of course, the solution is scandalous, it shouldn't be accepted. The alternative way of solving is to talk to all people who are looking for missing children, helping, forming a survey board of the National Assembly, why not, collecting again documentation, hearing all persons who have worked or been associated with all maternity care during a certain period of time, and as soon as one case is solved, just one, will already reveal a certain connection and it will be much easier to solve this case of missing children in general, because it is abnormal for someone to settle, that is, to offer payments without offering the truth. Instead of the Council of Europe guidelines and the European Court of Human Rights ruling, it should be more important for the citizens of Serbia, however many of them there are, rather than something some minister or prime minister or government president or anyone from the ministry would have praised that some problem has been solved because this law does not solve the problem. This is where the request from abroad is met. The problem remains, and in some ways all people who, at least 20 or 30 or whatever years of age, insist on finding the truth for their children are offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72341	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72342	I listened carefully, and I didn't hear a single solution, except that I needed to talk to my parents. Don't you think government people are? I've personally been to many meetings with parents' associations, people from the Justice Department have been on dozens of meetings and very difficult, since, say, the largest number of associations have totally opposed attitudes, they don't even want to hear what they're saying and they don't agree with other people's suggestions. You say, "Let's put this as a solution," they say, "If you do this, we'll leave all of this, we don't come to our senses." That's what meetings look like. Not to lie to you, to tell you that they're all unique and that they have a unique proposal, they don't. I haven't heard a suggestion from you either. We had the Survey Committee here in the Assembly. We had him in 2006 and he concluded that in the work of health institutions, parent services, competent ministries there were serious deficiencies that justified the suspicion of parents etc. and that in any of the criminal proceedings that were under way, it was not likely to bring charges, or there was not enough evidence for the existence of a reasonable doubt that a person had committed some of the crimes to which parents referred, etc. So, the Survey Committee didn't bring anything, absolutely nothing, too weak a result. What's good and what we all knew is that, of course, there is a suspicion that some of the state's authorities, I say, 30 years ago, have made failures 40 years ago, and we here have cases in which the state, not in the administrative process, avoid administrative proceedings to avoid the decision being made by the state authorities, we give an independent body, a court, in an out-of-pard procedure the possibility of determining the circumstances, even the fact that it cannot be clearly established what happened to that child. What are you going to do, hit the NATO bomb maternity site, burn the paperwork? We can hear them all here, for example, in some case, I'm just giving a hypothetical case, the hospital director died, the missing midwives who worked 40 years ago, they're not alive anymore. What do we do? Nemanja Sarovic: Not all of them 40 years ago. Not all of them. That's why we brought an institutional solution. (a) that such a thing cannot happen, connected to the state system and to the parent books and to the Ministry of Health. It's an institutional solution to the problem. The prosecution will be able to conduct proceedings against anyone found to have sufficient evidence that a crime has taken place. It's an institutional solution to the problem. We solve the problem in a way that state institutions can prosecute and that parents cannot be established, because there are also cases that cannot be determined how this child is missing, that these people are compensated only for the fact that the state isn't able to tell them that there's been a failure. What are we gonna do about someone 23 years ago, 15 years ago having a failure to solve this case, no record? So, the court has to determine which institution is responsible, who is responsible and that it deprives people. I don't want to talk about money here. We simply, as I would say, and as a parent of two children I would never want to talk about money related to children, but I would not like it to fall out here, not only in the Assembly, but anywhere – whether it should be paid more or less. There's no price for human life. We have passed on one standard which is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia. It is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to fulfil international obligations under the decisions of the courts, especially the courts of human rights, and we fulfil our obligation, which of course does not mean that the key issue here is money. The key question here is to carry out investigations where possible and prosecutors can do so and, two by two, that where facts and circumstances cannot be determined, it is worth the harm of parents, if nothing, because of the error of the then authorities of the state, of some hospital, of the ministry, of anything, and even if it was 30 years ago, even if the question is whether we have legal continuity over those bodies. Anyway, it happened, those parents have to have some sort of compensation for the pain they've been through. Never enough. There are no numbers, there's nothing we can decide here to be on, I know it'll never be enough, but this is the first step after decades and decades... Well, it would be best if we didn't do anything. Many took part in this and wrote and proposed and essentially what were they doing? Nothing. If they had caught themselves in 1995, if they had caught in 2005, if they had caught some years of solving problems – they had solved, arrested, found, compensated, we would not have discussed this subject today. Today we are establishing a system that can solve some of these problems. I am convinced that in this way, in the end, this larger number of witnesses, parent testimony, public appearance, greater presence, more talks with the state, will show greater trust in the state and the authorities that the state has to solve this problem. Why would parents come and why would they even come and talk about it if they didn't believe we'd ever solve it? After all, trust in the National Assembly. We are in the National Assembly today discussing this law. This law has passed a long public debate, a debate with the largest number of parents, not just the representatives of the association, with a huge number of people, a huge number of debates have been discussed as to what are the solutions we can apply. This is some minimum of things that were possible to establish some kind of consent. Different people have a different view of this problem. I'm telling you, we're gonna have a hard time agreeing that they all agree. I was present at several meetings where literally heavy words fell, where we were forced from the state authorities to wait, to see what to say at all. You know, people who have experienced such terrible tragedies feel so much pain, even though their child has died, that it hasn't been stolen, the pain is enormous. What do you say now? That someone's right and someone's wrong. Try to find the smallest common denominator and turn it into a law and try to solve those problems that can be solved. There are complex situations here. I'm sure there was, I don't want to be a prosecutor, let the prosecutors do it, I'm sure there was organized crime, I'm sure there were organized groups, I'm sure it couldn't have been one woman, one grandmother stole it, and now she's solved it, or one doctor, but after many years it's a lot harder to solve than it was a few years ago. Thank God he didn't. Thank God we've established mechanisms that this is impossible today, that you can follow every child, every newborn you can follow what, where, etcetera. There were a lot of questions, and I mean, about the DNA register. You can't force anyone to. You can sue a court decision in an individual case for DNA, but besides that, you can't force anyone to volunteer to access the DNA register and say you have an obligation to give now without being a suspect in anything or anything. You can't ask him to give DNA and there's a lot of questions. When we talk to colleagues from the Criminal Police, they'd love it the most if each of us had a DNA database in the state that if a crime was committed, you'd have a DNA print, a DNA sample. You can say with certainty at any time who committed the crime and then the case is solved, but not everyone wants to give their DNA sample. We've got a lot of problems. I mean, this isn't easy stuff. This isn't easy, let's sit down for 15 minutes and we have a solution. If it was easy, we'd all bring it before that. We come out here with one solution that will give some kind of justice that will help resolve this situation. This situation can be resolved essentially when in criminal proceedings we have the opportunity for prosecutors to place someone with enough evidence directly involved in this case and then get justice for someone whose child has been stolen. Then we have full justice. I'm not a court, I'm not a judge, I'm not a prosecutor. I don't know when it's going to be, I don't know how much evidence will be able to gather, but our job is to give them all the instruments that they can do and that's what the National Assembly can do by passing this law. That's what we're grateful for, and thank you. I consider this an argument, a good debate. I like debates, I like people to suggest. There may be something extra that can still be done in the future, but let's take the first step. After 40 or 50 years if we didn't do anything, let's do something, so when we do that, let's fix it if it's not good enough, but let's have something to fix. You know, when you have no legal instrument, one basis to get into something... By yesterday, we were told that it was impossible to lead, in 2010, we were told in 2012 that the procedures were completely out of date, but there is an interpretation where you can say that this is an unfinished crime and that you can continue the prosecution. They could have done it in 2005, 2010 and 2000, but unfortunately we didn't do it. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72343	You'll get your word when you ask. Alexander Seselj, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72344	I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, I've repeated it twice, you're criticizing this proposal, what I said – if maybe that polling committee when it was formed in 2006, maybe it wasn't doing the best of its work, maybe then the court was such that it couldn't be expected or the prosecution that it would come to an investigation, maybe you're against the new polling committee now, but that shows another thing. It shows that you are going through a line of less resistance, that even in advance you say that nothing can be solved, that nothing can be achieved because someone has already made a mistake there. Maybe it's a bad polling committee. Make a commission of the government. The Government Commission has listened to all these people who have been connected in the last 30 years, who are still alive, who are still there, who are available. They listen to each other and they take statements from everyone. Turn that polygraph on. I don't know where that polygraph is. A little, little bit of a minister wants to swear his innocence, toss a polygraph, and now that you might have a concrete role in some investigation, there's nothing going on right now. You say - an independent body by state authorities. Well, the court is also a state. The court is part of the judiciary. It is as important as the National Assembly, as is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This says that with a 26-member law, a man would expect in these few years that it would be much more thorough, much wider, but no – the law came with 26 members, showing this is an extorted move. Not a concrete solution, but something that was required to be put into congregation procedure. Another thing, you say, life has no price. Here's the price in Article 23. Article 23 states here that the cost of life, i.e. the price of a child, is seven times lower than the price of a subsidy. So, all according to European standards. If you don't trust the National Assembly, I can understand it, for these or those reasons, please, another proposal, does not have to be a committee of inquiry, a commission of government that will absolutely deal with it. It will put forth effort, time, efforts to solve these problems, and some conclusions will arise. This law isn't going to get anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72345	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72346	I don't decide if the National Assembly will form a committee of inquiry. It's the National Assembly's decision. So I don't have any power to decide in the National Assembly. As far as the committees are concerned, they're not prosecutors. The prosecutor's office since October 2013, in our case, is the prosecutor's investigation, who needs to tell us if there is enough evidence to take criminal action somewhere. Secondly, this law is not a comprehensive law. This isn't a code. So the code would be something that covers all the laws. We have a criminal code that covers all criminal code. This is one of the laws that, let me say, is something that further helps to bring legal formulations, or frameworks that will allow us to prosecute or otherwise satisfy justice. Here defined in the proposal. As far as the polygraph is concerned, since you've said it twice, I believe in the polygraph and it's up to the prosecutor to suggest or not to suggest. So, the D.A. decides whether he proposes to take a polygraph or not. That's what the D.A. is doing, and he's sovereignly deciding which evidence he's going to take. Also, the one to whom a polygraph is proposed doesn't have to agree to that. You can't make him. You can't even get him to say something in his defense or testify. He has the right to defend himself by silence, and I've seen it in a lot of cases where people don't want to go to a polygraph, they know why they won't and of course they know and why you're quiet, and it's all right, it's in accordance with the law. They have the right to do so, but in all the cases where the police were taking this means of proof under the prosecution's orders, I saw that it was very clear who had reason to lie, who was telling the truth, and on this basis we were able to direct the investigation and to come up with certain solutions. After all, I'm willing to always support, at any point, I completely agree with you, a very interesting piece of evidence and every prosecutor has the right to ask for it in an investigation, if that's what he wants, but it's an independent decision of the prosecution to apply what he's going to do. I still support that I think the D.A. is the right address to solve these cases. There is a criminal prosecution, left in front of a court of evidence, so as the law provides, and I am convinced that the court will give certain results, even if it identifies those institutions, institutions that in the previous decades, have not done their job and left room for doubt that a crime has been committed, or a criminal offence has been committed, which will later be determined by the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72347	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72348	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is really in front of us today, so-called law. "medicine specialis" waiting for several years. If we're talking about parents, they've been waiting for him for a few decades and he's extremely sensitive to the nature of this problem, because it's a problem of human character. SVM MPs were involved in the preparation and work of a working group that once existed. So in my presentation, I'm going to base myself a little bit on history, which is all done, since I see that here during the debate, there's already an open question, this committee of inquiry. In particular, half of 2005 formed a survey committee of the National Assembly which actually proposed several measures, including that the interior minister formed a specialised unit to investigate missing babies' cases, to lead the proceedings before the Special Court of Organized Crime, to form a working group that would remove obsolescence through appropriate legal regulations, etc. So that survey committee report was published around 2006 and nothing was done, the state authorities did not implement these measures. Then a working group was formed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. We took part in it. Working group, so-called "to change legislation" which, after a year, meant she had several sessions, sent written questions to certain ministries, all parties involved, and after a year the general conclusion of the report from the working group was that there was no constitutional possibility that the adoption of the law would allow for the processing of previously-existing cases of infant disappearances from the maternity home. Then it came in 2013, and the European Court of Human Rights from Strasbourg, which was mentioned here on March 26th, in particular, issued a verdict in the case of Zorica Jovanovic against the Republic of Serbia, which found that the European Court of Human Rights had designated the right to family life, referred to in Article 8. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In the same verdict, in fact, this European Court of Human Rights has obliged the Republic of Serbia to pay the applicant a corresponding amount in the name of immaterial damage. This is one part of the verdict, and the other is significant and why we are here today and why we are talking about this bill, is that in fact, the Republic of Serbia is obliged then to implement certain measures of general nature, i.e. that is, that is to say, on 26 March 2013, that within one year, it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to take appropriate measures to establish a mechanism that would allow all parents to receive appropriate answers and appropriate compensation in similar situations. It can be very simple to calculate that we are quite late, that it has been a few years, but it is a good thing that some say at the last minute, but we are talking about the adoption of a bill establishing the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. In order to carry out our country's obligation, the Republic of Serbia, according to that verdict, it is clear that it is necessary to pass a new law that is prescribed, as we have heard here, a special procedure to determine the status of newborn children suspected of missing from maternity care, determines the authority of the state authorities, which is significant in the process, and at the same time determines a fair fee, if it is found that the right to the family life of the newborn child's parents has been violated. When the European Court reached this verdict, he had in mind the report that the survey committee we talked about, which was formed in 2005, and the National Assembly published the report on 14 July 2006, there was a report on which little was said, but also significant in this matter, the 2010 Citizens' Protector's report, as well as a report by the working group that I mentioned, which was formed to draft a bill to create formal legal conditions for the handling of competent authorities following reports on the disappearance of newborn children from the maternity ward. The report was published in late December 2010, but of course also relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Criminal Law, the Law on Liabilities, Health Protection, etc. But let's talk about the very bill that lies ahead. There were several versions. I'm sure there'll be a debate here today about whether there's been a public debate. Someone said there was a public debate on one of the proposals, somewhere in 2015, but in fact this legal text that is in front of us was in the assembly procedure of 20 March 2018 and last October was adopted on the parent board, the Committee of Justice, the state administration and local self-government. So that's when he went by in principle. It is important to point out that at the end of November of last year, a public hearing was held in the National Assembly in the small hall of the National Assembly, where NGOs, various associations of parents, us several, as well as representatives, when we are already talking about the National Assembly itself, committees, members of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, etc., members of the Women's Parliamentary Network. The SVM MPs were present at this public hearing and we really listened and heard, but I must stress that only listening and debate during the course was interesting, but also very emotionally, intensely and the media reported the most about this emotional and intense work, not the essence. I have to point out that when we talk about associations, there are some confusions about what is actually legally possible. Others feel that this bill and its adoption would end criminal responsibility for baby theft. On the contrary, why are we going to support this proposal, because the facts are different. The fact is that no investigation will be suspended, that these are crimes that are not outdated, that this bill has been prepared in accordance with Council of Europe's recommendations, that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has been monitoring this bill all along, that it has said that the law is good enough, that they have taken into account legal opportunities, expertise in the Council of Europe and that the application of this law itself will be monitored by experts from the Council of Europe. So, by adopting so-called. The law on missing babies, Serbia will fulfil its obligation finally to the European Court of Human Rights, which has ordered the state to establish a mechanism for determining truth and compensation for parents who believe that their babies have disappeared after childbirth. The Council of Europe has indeed been asking the Republic of Serbia for years to carry out this obligation and it has actually ruined our reputation. We are several very active members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We've been asked a lot of times. What is significant is that the Committee of Ministers discussed it at several sessions and we received criticism that it is necessary to pass the law rather than postpone it for some unfounded criticisms. Of course, it is a sensitive issue, and that is why I really support, on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, that we have had the strength to discuss this proposal before the end of this term. So when this verdict is interpreted, there are a few things. It's one thing to adopt what's called adoption. lex sepsis and ensuring that the new research mechanism is adequately supported and supervised in order to really function effectively in practice, which is significant. The implementation of this ruling according to the Council of Europe also includes relevant training for judges and other people involved in this process, ensuring effective sharing of information between courts, effective procedures for international fact-finding, as well as encouraging authorities to establish a dedicated and internationally available DNA database for parents of missing babies, and indeed this is the last moment to start carrying out this verdict in practice. The Council of Europe, as I said, has estimated that this bill is good enough and has suggested that with its expertise it will continue to assist in implementing this verdict and that it will really monitor how this law is in practice and applied. The state on the other hand, I still have to point out, I don't think anyone has mentioned this, that the Republic of Serbia has received very clear recommendations in which direction it should have gone in terms of improving the text, because, as I said, the bill has been in the assembly procedure since March 2018. He hasn't changed much. Now two days ago, we had a session of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government where the Committee adopted the amendments. The amendments mainly concern the training of judges, prosecutors and police officers to conduct international investigations, as well as the International DNA register. So it is significant that we have accepted these recommendations and thus improved the legal text. All in all, to conclude in half, it is clear that this is an extremely difficult, painful problem that the country has faced and the fact is that it has been happening since the early '70s, says the most in the '80s until the end of the 1990s, but it is significant that the Republic of Serbia is trying to solve the decades-old problem. Clearly, there are mechanisms to solve this problem, political will, strength. This fight is certainly not simple and it will be those who, after the adoption of this law, will be satisfied, will be those who will not be satisfied, but I really would not want this problem to be this difficult decades-long, life-saving issue, say several hundred, and at most several thousand, we do not know the exact numbers of people, use for demagogue political crackdowns, because indeed some have begun to deal with the cost of babies and that all MPs who adopt this proposal should be on the pillar of shame. I don't think so. We perform our duties, but we solve the problem, as I said, this text, these legal solutions aren't bad. This is indeed one of, said the Member States of the Council of Europe, one of the most complex issues the European Court of Human Rights has faced and the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe itself because of its humanitarian character. According to some data that we received and statistics, the number of parents who had previously, within the legal period prescribed, addressed the state authorities in connection with the situation of the child suspected of missing from the maternity ward, ranged from several hundred to thousands, two depending on the body they addressed. To conclude slowly, this is an obligation, but also a responsibility, proof that the government is responsible, that the Republic of Serbia is really solving a problem that has been pushed under the carpet before and that the government is responsible for the state, but also for all its citizens. What's significant is that something like this never happens to anyone again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72349	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go, Mr. Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72350	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers with associates, the law we have on the agenda today is primarily a commitment to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Some of us before had no hearing, no strength or courage to deal with this. Of course, this is not easy, nor simple, nor politically popular subject of getting in and into the most painful feelings of those people who suspect that their children have disappeared, stolen or simply have a serious suspicion that it happened. I would first come from the very name of the law, and the bill clearly states that this is a law on determining the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. Anyone who is not ill-intentioned, by reading only calls the law, has the opportunity to understand the purpose and role of this law that we are talking about today. This isn't a law that needs to prevent anyone's criminal responsibility. This isn't a cover-up of possible cases. This is simply a state reaction that in the only appropriate and appropriate way through court proceedings, a dilemma about the existence of doubt about the status of a newborn baby. All the law and all the text of this law is written in the spirit of this name. I don't know any other institution that would be better trained, trained, who would have more authority and be more responsible than the court, that this is exactly what the court decides. Whether or not a political body, a polling committee or something will be established is a special story. I think many NGOs who allegedly support parents who have serious pain, suffering and suspicion of what happened to their children are not well-intentioned. There are those who are, who help these people in some way to determine the truth. The adoption of such a law is exactly one of the ways to remove some of the basic dilemmas that may be there. Here is a very clear understanding of the obligations of the MUP, the need for police officers to be specially and specially trained, but also by the amendment proposed by the Committee of the same specialization and special training I believe that they will also be provided for judges who act, both in the first and second stages of these proceedings. Next, we're introducing something called an investigative principle. This means that this does not come down to a mere and formal procedure where the judge will carry out the evidence proposed by the applicant or someone else, but has an obligation to carry out and carry out all possible evidence that can provide a basis for a high-quality court ruling. The obligation of the court and the principle of urgency, but not hasty, and that is clearly defined, the principle of confidentiality, because these are really topics that are deeply painful and would really be extremely irresponsible and irresponsible to allow these people who are already suffering enough and suffering and even more deepening. The principle of the obligation to hear proposals and all those involved in the procedure. These are the basic principles that follow this procedure and I don't think there really was any more appropriate procedure than this modified out-of-party proceedings in a court that could determine such a fact. Only the initiation of the procedure is very simple does not require any cost, so any of those people who wish and fulfil the conditions set out in this Article 14 can simply initiate this procedure, the State's obligation remains, or the Court's obligation to carry out the procedure properly. There are no possible solutions to something that should lead to a dilemma. The Court has an obligation that, at the end of the proceedings, on the basis of the established facts of those which may be established, in such a procedure or in any other procedure, it is difficult for me to believe that some procedure in which more facts could be obtained than in what is intended, but of course, space for better ideas always exists, has the obligation to make a decision and to put its conclusion on paper, as we like to say so in so far as we like, and to determine the status of the missing newborn child by establishing the fact of death, the possible place where the body is located, or if it cannot be determined, to determine the facts that explain what happened to the missing newborn child and the place where it is located. If neither can be determined on the basis of evidence carried out in the procedure, the court shall also write it. Of course there is a right to appeal and it will be questioned in a second-degree procedure. As far as the state takes this case seriously, it is also the fact that as competent courts it has designated not primary courts but more courts in its seats that will obviously have specialised departments for these types of proceedings, as the assumption that more experienced judges are sitting in these courts, who will only be able to pay far more attention to this matter. Is it the subject of the proposal whether or not they will claim a cash fee? The right to compensation for mental pain and suffering, or as this law says, because of the violation of the right to family life, is something that is common in the history of the Serbian judiciary, but for a long, long time and it can never be the price that makes up for something, it's just some kind of minimal kind of satisfaction that those who suffer some kind of pain can get from the state in the name of it. By establishing the right to both compensation and where the court is a solution that one day becomes a forceful finds that the status of the missing newborn child cannot be established. We, as a state, actually recognize our own objective responsibility and for the sloppyness of the officers who conducted these procedures in maternity homes, and I will stick to what the minister said in the opening statement in the 60s and so on. In my practice, in law enforcement, I had seven or eight situations that people who had serious doubts came to consult, bringing a variety of documents, papers, even without any paper asking for something to be done. At that moment, my hands were absolutely tied as a power of attorney, but I want to say one other thing. Some have truly convinced me that there is a serious reason for doubt, based on the paperwork I could see, but I have to be honest, as politically unpopular as it is, that many of the things people who suffer for these things as desperates have taken hold of a straw of salvation have seemed much more like the sloppyness of the clerks and officials who led the administration in maternity wards than the conspiracy theory or something that might raise serious suspicion. At the very least, who am I to evaluate and evaluate all of this, because it is simply the kind of thing that should be decided only by courts when the status of such a population or the status of those children is. I think that the bill is extremely well done, well founded and that the obligation is otherwise understood, which is that, if the court finds or finds out and during the proceedings that a criminal offence has been committed, it is required to inform the prosecution. Especially focusing on this item, although we are all citizens primarily of both judges and prosecutors for any information indicating the existence of a crime, it is said that no dilemma should have a man in this way, with this law someone wants to reduce the possibility of being led and criminalised. I must say, Your Honor, it is very close to me to interpret and think that there has been no statute of limitations in these crimes. However, it will be decided by courts and prosecutors. And if it's neither a place nor a time, but I have to say, it's a good thing that this is going to be done by specialized judges, probably by the D.A. who's going to be special, and not by some who say, it's insane that people who finish primary school shouldn't go on vacation every year and it's just not normal. In this way, they show a relationship with those who are judged in actions. They show their attitude towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but it is a topic for another forum, but attention must be paid to why the specialisation of judges, the specialisation of workers, or members of the interior ministry are very important for quality decisions. I believe that in at least one part of the people, whatever the outcome of that procedure will be, will remove suspicion of what really happened to their children. The reason for voting in the voting day for this bill is this, because we simply owe it no matter how difficult it was, however politically unpopular, to ensure conditions, that in a fair, fair procedure that will not exclude any other alternative and possibility, which other laws provide, we are obliged to provide this for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why didn't some of us before have the courage and courage, the hearing to do it, have to ask them anyway. We will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72351	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Now there is a word, Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72352	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, are presently facing a law that, they all say, is difficult because it treats an extremely sensitive and difficult topic, which is a violation of human rights, treats the problem of children, missing children, the problem of parents, who are looking for their children who they consider to have been kidnapped at birth. We've waited a long time for this law to be found before the MPs. I think it's extremely important that we talk about him here today and what has proven to be both willingness and will and courage. Of course, if this government were to be taken into account and take the first step in solving this big problem, for which in the previous period, through media, through the means of information, through the parent protests that you wanted, which you couldn't get around, one of them tried in every way possible to point out the injustice they suffered, to everything they suspected and to seek justice for their children and to ask for justice within the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, to enable them to conduct investigations and to come up with certain results. Someone who has gone far in his fight is one family who has received a positive verdict before the European Court of Human Rights, to establish that the right to family life laid down in Article 8 has been violated. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, and this particular family is the most responsible one today for this law and we are talking about it, but it is also up to the Republic of Serbia to implement this decision of the European Court of Justice, but also to provide mechanisms for all parents in the same and similar situations to provide adequate answers for their questions before the courts. I must say that in the previous period, it was the text of the law, which will regulate this area and what is very important was the text of the Bill's proposal for the first time in the Assembly procedure in 2018, there were great objections by parents to the proposed text of the law. The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality held two meetings at the parents' association's initiative, then with representatives of parents, two separate meetings, and where it was found that both associations were to withdraw the law from the procedure, but they were also found to disagree with the association when it was said what would happen after the law was withdrawn from the procedure. The Association for Truth and Justice for Babies felt that no legal solution could be acceptable. They argue that the Commission for the examination of state authorities' behaviour in the lighting of reported cases of missing children in the Republic of Serbia, which was formed by the Government in March 2018, should be started as soon as possible, as it was thought to provide effective mechanisms for determining facts and enables independent supervision by parents as well as their active participation. The Belgrade group believes that the new text of the law should be worked on and that so far experience on the work of the Working Group and the Survey Committee dealing with the issue of missing babies has not yielded results. Also, there was a problem that only a representative of a group of parents was present in the Commission. At that time in April, the Committee for Human and Minority Rights also informed the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister and Justice Minister Ms. Nelu Kuburovic, that parents were required to be involved in the process of law-making. Priced, of course, the commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia to find the best solution to missing babies' issues and efforts to implement the European Court of Human Rights's ruling, it is proposed to consider the proposals of the representatives of parents and, accordingly, make a decision on the fate of this law. What parents have done in the meantime and what they've been doing for decades, it's that individual disputes are being conducted and tried. There are laws in Serbia that regulate the issue of investigation and criminal responsibility that is the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. There are state authorities dealing with investigations and prosecutions, which are competent public prosecutors. The problem is that in the past 20 years, public prosecutors have rejected parental criminal charges for obsolescence, and parents have not known or had no time to change the practice. After years of efforts by the Association of Parents and Children, who suspect that at birth they were kidnapped at maternity sites in Serbia, and these efforts to change the legal practice of the public prosecutor's office and courts in solving cases, the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad adopted on February 13, 2020, an objection by the Romanian mother to a solution to the rejection of the senior public prosecutor's plea in Novi Sad due to the alleged obsolescence of criminal prosecution with an explanation likely to enter Serbian judiciary's annals. A more public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad, in a mandatory manual, states that an effective investigation is necessary, taking into account the legal nature of this and these crimes, the public interest states that in a versatile, complete and legal manner, i.e. the conduct states from the parent's criminal report, that their children have disappeared in maternity care, with mandatory participation of the damaged. More The Appellate Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, gives a legal interpretation that in the case of parents reporting their children missing at the maternity home, right after birth, they are dealing with permanent crimes. But this is an individual procedure, which after a long struggle gave results, and encouraged parents in their struggle to come to a satisfactory solution, to carry out the investigation and that the work was not outdated, which is very important. What we are talking about today, we are talking about a bill aimed at determining the status of newborn children suspected of missing from maternity or health care institutions in the Republic of Serbia. In preparation for this debate, I spoke with representatives of the parenting association who suspect their children were abducted at birth. Yesterday, the president of the SDPS parliamentary group, Mr. Mijatovic and I, in our office, met with representatives of the Belgrade group of parents of missing babies. Parents argue that this law is withdrawn from the Assembly procedure, and they believe they were not involved in the process of passing this law. However, opinions are shared when we talk about the parent's views, and that's what we concluded at yesterday's meeting. Of the five associations in Serbia, as many as there are and who are seriously dealing with this problem, three associations are in favour of passing laws, and two are against it. I've talked to both of them, and to mothers individually, all in order for both my debate and what I'm going to talk about today to be as objective as possible, to hear what might be a grudge, but again to hear the attitudes that say that this law should be passed and why it's good for parents. Parents say the law must solve all current cases, where there are doubts parents that the child has been kidnapped. The law should regulate the future, that parents know who to turn to and what will happen if someone in the future suspects that his child has been kidnapped. And so all preventive measures are taken, so that this situation and this situation will never happen again. Also, it's not just parents that are damaged here. This is where the child is the victim of human trafficking. A child, no matter where he is now, has the right to know that he's been kidnapped and forced out of his biological family, as well as his parents have the right to know where his child is. Why should the law be passed? What parents say is very important for the adoption of this law, and what I really support, for me as a Social Democrats, and as a MP, this law is very important, and I think it is very important that the Law on Missing Babies is finally in the Serbian Assembly and that there is finally the strength to move towards solving this big problem. So far, no government has dealt with this difficult topic, and we all know that problems last for decades. My opinion and the opinion of the parents I have been in contact with and the representatives of the parent association who support the adoption of this law is that the law is in the interests of parents because this issue is directed to be solved by state institutions. Secondly, the law is good as a starting point, because it deals with the status of whether the child died or is alive and it is determined by the court in court proceedings. This eliminates the commission set up by the government, which had no results in the work in the previous period. The third reason, honourable MPs, I have taken the obligation, the honourable representatives of the government, the distinguished Madam Minister, of a mother to convey her opinion and her position under this law. Of course, I have the consent to say her name. One mother, a great fighter, all mothers are fighters who today fight for their children in any way, especially in situations like this when we talk about human rights violations. It's Mrs. Drinka Radonjic. She says: “We cannot solve our problems on the street or on social networks. We believe that this law, with changes and additions made through amendments to the Assembly, is a way to find out the truth about what happened to our children. Even if the amendments don't pass, better the law than the law. “ I fully agree with her, and I believe that everything I have stated ahead, these three reasons are enough for me to support this bill in the voting day. What I still want to say is that... I don't know what the right words are, but I don't think there's any more pain and there's no greater pain than when a mother's in a white coat, a few hours after birth or a few days, she comes in and she doesn't have any empathy saying that her child was born with severe damage, with a high probability of fatal outcome, or she says her child died, and she heard him crying. I survived that pain on my own. I didn't survive it, I live with it today. You hear those words and those words ring your whole life. With that you live, lie down, stand up, and it lasts as long as your mother lives. It is this pain that gives you the strength and the right to speak today in this way and strengthens you to fight for every new day of your sick child or to learn the truth of where your child is, because you are sure that it has not passed away. Mother knows that. While I was waiting for my child's surgery, which is to move to a neurosurgery clinic, it took a long time. I've met a lot of mothers in the maternity ward and heard, besides my own, a lot of sad news. Unfortunately, and those with a fatal outcome. All of us who have any problem with the child understand each other very well, without a word. That pain connects you and keeps you together all your life. Even in some moments we have talked about and whose pain may be greater, it is difficult to assess whether the pain for every new day of your child, the pain for the drug you do not have or to provide it, 30 years ago it was impossible for the state to provide you with the conditions for treatment, whether you did it yourself or perhaps the fact that you know that the child did not die, that it is alive, and you do not know what is happening with it today. For twenty-two years, I have been working through associations to help people with development disorders to improve the position of people with disabilities. I've made countless remarks and suggestions through associations, alliances to certain laws that have treated our children's position somewhere and promoted them, of course. Don't think I was once satisfied, I've never been, what was in the law. As a young parent, I reacted quite badly and was dissatisfied with what I see in the law, but a beautiful mother, who is far older than me, had children my age then, has them today, says, "Let Slavica, it's good. At least our children are recognized in law. There hasn't been that yet. We'll change. We'll work on it, we'll fight it. We have now based on what. We have some groundwork. "Any parent who suspects his child was abducted has his own story. Each way is particularly specific, painful and, believe me, unique. Every one of them deserves a special law, I mean it, but we all know it's impossible. My dear Drinka says better law than law. I'm thinking the same thing. I've been trying to talk to these wonderful people, to come up with a common ground, that this is the first step that the government is making in solving this big problem. Maybe it's not the most ideal solution. No law is ideal. Did we bring one here that later in some part of the application showed no particular deficiencies, so it needed to be done. I don't know in what form this law will be passed after the amendment debate and everything that's been done, but here's what dear parents say I talked to, even if the amendments don't get adopted, it's better this kind of solution than the street. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72353	Thank you, Mrs. Zivkovic. I now give my word to Mrs. Minister Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72354	After participating in Mrs. Slavica Zivkovic's debate, it is likely that we have all lost sight of each other for a moment. There is no more authentic representative among you MPs than her with the right to both parent and MP and representative of that part of the citizens whom, above all, concerns matter that is on the agenda today, that your court, your comment, your proposals, your analysis of everything we have done, and I really thank her. I must say that, despite the fact that the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health were primarily dominantly involved in making up the text that is before you, in the Government we were more than carefully considering the content of this bill and we were just finding out what MP Zivkovic said. It is better to come to the truth about the suspicion of missing babies, to develop a mechanism, in the end it is also a suggestion of the European Council and the European Court of Human Rights, that as a state we are dealing with and give a chance to make this truth easier, no matter what it is that all those who are in pursuit of the truth, rather than living in error. This government, and not only in this matter, falls into the work of extremely difficult tasks, to solve decades of problems, to give answers, and to you honourable MPs to give answers to human most difficult questions in the legislative plan through the adoption of the law. Our work isn't easy. The problem of decades, the fact that there may be no medical documentation that would help us, or that would help the courts to come to some of the truths about the suspicion of missing babies, are only segments of the weight, and what is certain is that those who want to solve problems must ask themselves the most difficult questions both on the human agenda and on the legislative plan and on the country's planning. I have a feeling of satisfaction that it is certainly part of the Belgrade group of parents, certainly JUKOM, and above all the recommendations of the Council of Europe, found the way to all of you and that in such a serious debate we are talking about and thanking Mrs Slavica Zivkovic once again for bringing part of her personal story into the adoption of this law, because it is actually fate issues, not just about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72355	Thank you, Professor Djukic Dejanovic. Now the word is Maria Yevdzic. Here you go, Mrs. Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72356	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, on today's agenda, we have a bill to determine the facts about newborn children suspected of missing from maternity care. I believe that this law, apart from "Tian" and "Zoja" law, is the most sensitive law found in this high house and it is ungrateful to talk about the gravity of this law because it stems from pain and parental suffering. I will agree with you, Madam Minister, that the previous speaker, or colleague of Slavica, in one honest and emotional way to all of us here, has, in fact, told the essence and basis of this law. To live your life trying to find your child and fight even when all odds are in vain, is the courage that led to us in this high house today discussing a bill that is otherwise Serbia's obligation to bring. Based on the judgment of the European Court of Human and Minority Rights of 2013 which was brought and based on the complaint of a brave and persistent mother, we are today trying to restore our faith in justice. We are obliged to support this mother, as well as all the parents who have carried this burden and pain themselves, and to solve this problem both legally and institutionally. As a parent, I can't imagine, and I can't accept the fact that someone in the maternity ward takes a healthy baby out of your arms, declares it dead, and no matter how harsh it sounds to sell. It happened, it didn't happen again. I ask the question, is it possible that people who have just taken the Hippocratic oath and committed to putting their lives in the service of humanity participated in this whole process? I wonder, how could they look their children in the eyes and hug them, knowing that this is exactly what a parent's right was denied? The only justice for the parents of missing babies would be if we could get the time back. Unfortunately, that's impossible. We can't wipe the seas of their tears with a rubber, we can't erase their pain. What we must and what we can do is give hope, hope that these tears were not in vain, that the state would stand by them and that the perpetrators of these crimes would be brought to justice. It encourages Minister Stefanovic's statement that both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have agreed on the view that the prosecution will be able to continue pursuing suspects for the potential theft of children, as it is a crime that is still ongoing and that the work of all institutions that were obliged to store data relating to each child will be investigated. By the way, on February 13th, the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad adopted an appeal by a Roma parent for a solution that the More Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad had previously rejected, its criminal application for child theft as obsolete, and gave a mandatory instruction to the prosecutions in Vojvodina to investigate missing babies' cases. A unique Serbia believes in Serbia's judicial system and we want all those who have had any involvement in this affair to respond to and be severely punished in the affair of stolen babies. I am sorry that some politicians are using this sensitive topic for day-to-day political purposes, collecting points and unfortunately abusing the parents of missing babies for their political promotion. We also have on the agenda a draft law confirming the Convention on International Child Support. It is another way to improve co-operation between countries with regard to the achievement of child support and other family members. Otherwise, the international maintenance was regulated by the New York Convention, which was adopted back in 1956, and was complemented by The Hague, which was adopted in 2007 and with it were modernised by co-operation systems between countries. I think the main problem in Serbia, when we talk about the achievement of child support, is the collection of alimony both in Serbia and abroad. In Serbia, between 57,000 and 75,000 single parents, among whom more than 75% of mothers, alimony does not realise or receive more than 85% of children. As our people would say, when a man divorces a woman, he divorces children, and that's why we have such devastating data. The only salvation is the establishment of an alimony fund. Otherwise, a commission that was established in 2006 during the government of Vojislav Kostunica was due to work on the construction of civil law, costing Serbian citizens dearly. What she cost dearly, is that they didn't do anything and she was rightly abolished. It was this commission that was to introduce through civil law a system of alimony funds that would pay child support in case of unconscious parents. I believe that by following many countries, which were founded by the Alimentary Fund, we will soon achieve and establish this fund and thus help single parents, but also children to exercise their right to support and thus spare them long trials. It is sad when a court should order a parent to support his child and to remind them of the obligations of parenting, and even sadder when we have a case where there is no alimony problem, not the care of one parent, but the lack of responsibility of both parents, as well as responsible persons in institutions that should deal with it. The most recent example is an example of children from the Alibunar where the question arises – who has all failed in the chain of responsibility and how will this case be solved? What will be done so that the Alibunar will never happen again? The state of Serbia has been working a lot in the area of population policy and inciting birth for the past few years, because without children and their carefree childhood, we cannot talk about Serbia in the future. Therefore, we must not allow individuals in responsible places to do their job. Supporting children and their protection and the right to a normal life must be a priority for all of us. Unique Serbia will always support laws that protect children and guarantee all rights of children. Through our work we can see direct help and single parents and families with more children and socially endangered families. We should work to ensure that every city in Serbia creates maximum conditions for the easier and meaningful life of young couples with children, that our children remain in Serbia, that their future be Serbia's future. Therefore, in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support both proposed laws on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72357	Thank you, Mrs. Yevdzic. The word has Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72358	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected minister, respected members of different ministries, welcome to the home of the National Assembly. I believe that today is very emotional and very difficult for everyone, when it comes to the debate on a law that we call the law on missing children, especially given the fact that this law will not solve the problem of missing babies in Serbia. These missing babies are no longer babies, mostly today we're talking about people who are adults, adult people who, in the meantime, probably came up with such circumstances as having their families, and people who are looking for them, or their parents, may today be able to look for, not just their children, but also look for their grandchildren. With this in mind, since the topic is so emotional and rarely who can stay together when it comes to this subject, especially all of us who have had intensive contacts with different associations of missing babies' parents, the question is, How dare we put such a law in the assembly debate, where on the one hand the representatives of the ruling majority and different political organisations sit, and on the other hand the representatives of the opposition and, also, representatives of different political organisations, we must put ourselves on the line and allow ourselves to abuse this assembly debate and to politise it and scandalize it in a way that is absolutely inappropriate? With that connection, at this point I'm talking to colleagues sitting across the street, because I know these days they've been targeted by various politicians on this side of me, opposition. I don't want anyone putting up and making lists of MPs who, in their best intentions, might press the key to vote this law, and I will do everything in my power to convince them not to do so. So that's one message I'm sending. Also, I do not want to curse the members of the government, especially the women who are sitting in the government today, and to condemn them for having referred this bill to the assembly procedure, and I will do everything in my power to convince you to withdraw this law from the assembly procedure and to write a new proposal, as it is in the interest of that group of citizens who expect the adoption or non-compliance of this law and who are only relevant to tell us whether this law is right or not. So, I'm going to remind you once again that this law does not solve the problem of parents in all cases looking for their children. Today I'm on social networks, because I really haven't slept in days, and I believe neither you nor anyone, so I don't and I don't want citizens to imagine what kind of position we're in today, so today on social networks, I've published a potential situation, what kind of agony those parents who may have gotten their child in, say, 1980. I set an example that year because I was born in 1981. Imagine the everyday life of those people who rise up every morning and wonder, "Where is my child today?" Is it alive? Is it gone? If it's gone, where is it buried? If she's alive, is she happy today, does she have a family? How does he live? Do I have grandkids? Did we happen to meet? Did my kid ever stand next to me on a bus? Imagine the 40 years of those parents ’ relationship with their immediate surroundings where someone must have called them crazy, because they think they're paranoid and they don't understand and that they can't reconcile with the fact that their child may have died in the maternity ward and that they can't possibly accept that truth. Imagine how much they are subject to manipulation, who has addressed them all for 40 years by offering all kinds of services and assistance and how they have all been damaged or manipulated. Imagine their relationship with the state. They're highly specialized detectives today, I say responsibly. I know what procedures they've been going through and what they've done looking for the truth about what actually happened to their children. Imagine how many doors they knocked, imagine how many times they were rejected, imagine how many times they've spoken to the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Meaning, to get the documents they need to determine what happened to the children they suspect were stolen. Today's law on the agenda can't solve all these questions. Finally, when this law is applied, I will also specify the details of this law, those after 40 years and, let's say, in what month this law comes into force and applies to their case, it will be answered for these 14,600 unsanitary days and nights when I wondered what color my child has in his eyes. I will receive a compensation of 8,462 euros for the pain suffered. It will be the final after this law has been applied. I will now go back to the provisions of the law itself and, yes, I will not repeat myself, because all colleagues have very detailedly described what procedures were conducted in the last 19, 20 years through parliament, and I will remind you that somewhere first contact and more serious contact and the first more serious information regarding the problem of missing babies in Serbia we received in the 2010 Report from the Citizens' Protectors who were then referred to. He does not specifically make any solutions, nor does he have any concrete knowledge, but what, after an investigation was conducted, which he, within the jurisdiction he could have carried out, led to the conclusion that it was in fact an inhumane procedure and an absolute abuse of bureaucracy. After all, when parents who have received it, I say, first knowledge in the form of a report, it is completely rational that they today have no confidence in the state. This law is specifically the second time in the congregation procedure during this call. He came for the first time in 2016 and I should have dealt with this law at the same time. With this in mind, I am absolutely sure that this bill and the bill of law at the time and this bill of law that we have today are not fundamentally amended, although it is then under the pressure of the public, the associations of parents, the NGOs concerned dealing with these issues and the MPs. So he did have been withdrawn from the procedure to improve the quality of this proposal. However, he has not essentially changed. Some amendments have been adopted that essentially do not solve serious problems that will arise under this law. Meanwhile, in March 2018, it was likely in a desire to protect the best interests, to advocate the best interests, established and governmental commission to be examined, had certain tasks and needed to help write specifically this law. But yesterday I asked the question in the National Assembly to representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You know, in those two years of their term of office, which is due to expire in a few days, they haven't sent a single report, or at least he wasn't available to the public, about what exactly the commission has done and what conclusions have taken place, so that these conclusions can be entered into in the bill that we are discussing today. I'll also remind you that we had a public hearing. So this law did not go through the official procedure that was necessary to pass, which is a public debate. The law was speeded up in one of the possible procedures called public listening, which took place at the end of last year. During the public hearing, he was also a representative of the ministry of Cedomir Backovic. He's not here with us today. He was a representative of the Council of Europe. Also, they were presidents of all the committees that organized this public hearing, as well as the MPs sitting here today, but they were all associations of parents dealing with the issue of missing babies. Unfortunately, now I cannot fully agree with Mrs. Zivkovic, who spoke earlier and very emotionally. So, at that public hearing, absolutely all the associations of parents agreed that they did not accept the bill that is now on the agenda of the Assembly. Once again, I will remind you, the only interest that we as MPs have to protect today is the interest of these parents who are looking for their children. If they're absolutely not in agreement, despite what individuals may be, because they think this will solve their problems, I say, they're subject to serious manipulations, so I'm not surprised when you get a message from some parents that this law will solve something. In fact, all public hearing associations are behind the fact that they don't accept such a bill. This law is essentially irreparable. So I personally tried 2016 and now, in 2018, by talking to various associations, to try to improve the amendments to this law, because I understand, no matter what I am on the side of the opposition, and you on the side of the ruling majority, that common sense will do everything to improve this legislative proposal. However, such a number of amendments make this law practically inapplicable and poses a problem. Now I'm going to look back on the text of this law. So, as it is stated in several exhibitions that we have had opportunity to hear here, several hundred to several thousand people today are looking for their missing children. We don't want to talk about whether those kids died or alive. They justifiably doubt that their children are alive and want to see for themselves. So, this law was written under the pressure of the Council of Europe, following a verdict at the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Zorica Jovanovic against the Republic of Serbia. The first two provisions speak of what this law should settle. The 2nd member of this law describes it, which means that this law is explicitly related to one case in Zorica Jovanovic's ruling against the Republic of Serbia, and this is the law. No one has submitted an amendment to which this will be arranged differently. So, this law, when it comes into force, no matter what we say here, some lawyer who needs to read it, to analyze it, he will say – the aim of this law is Zorica Jovanovic, a verdict before the European Court of Human Rights and no other case. There's some correlation here that's been made to solve some other cases. However, it does not have to be guaranteed anything. In the 21st member who's the most controversial and often talked about him... I don't want to talk about the details of the law. That's what we'll do when it's an amendment debate. So the 21st member says in his 3rd position -- if facts cannot be determined that explain what happened to the missing newborn child, to translate, if the state of Serbia cannot determine the circumstances under which the disappearance of one's child occurred, then the court finds that the status of the missing newborn child cannot be established. That's the end of the story, there's no further to this. If our state and all state authorities and institutions find there is no further, then we come to Article 23 most often spoken of in public these days, which is a fair cash compensation that cannot be settled in excess of 10,000 euros in dinar equivalent, according to the official middle course of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of adoption. I will not bid whether the amount – up to 10,000 euros is little or much. Many colleagues have talked about it here. They compared subsidisation in the economy and all kinds of other things we can compare to whether there's even a cost of a child. Also, according to the law, they are said to have called on the case of Zorica Jovanovic, who was convicted in the European Court of Human Rights. It did not oblige the Republic of Serbia to say – yes, we have to give up to 10,000 euros. We were able as a state to find a solution and figure out what amount of pain these people went through, how much money they actually spent looking for the truth about their children and to say -- it's okay, the European Court of Human Rights recommendation is to be 10,000 euros, to tie ourselves to the verdict that was led in Mrs Zorica Jovanovic's case against the state of Serbia, but we can change that amount. We don't have to bond with him. So there is a mere formality of meeting expectations, i.e. conclusions and instructions that the state of Serbia has received from the Council of Europe. We had a session of the Justice Committee the other day and discussed the amendments. One of the colleagues sitting next to you was in that session. So, no other colleagues came forward to analyze what these amendments are like. The parent's basic grudge, so I'm protecting the interests of my parents, which is why I'm saying, is one amendment to DNA analysis, which says that if parents don't agree to give their sample to DNA analysis, then that process is interrupted. Why is this so controversial? Let's remember the woman from the beginning of my presentation. That woman's been knocking on the door for 40 years, 40 years, she's coming across that same closed door. In the meantime, some of them also came up with those famous molds that are also widely spoken of in public, and they came up with terrible knowledge about what is actually in those molds. Do you think these people have confidence in the state, justifiably, not in you specifically, because that problem is really long ago? Do you really think these people have any confidence that this country will conduct a proper analysis, a quality investigation and allow them to eventually face whether their child is alive or not? They justifiably do not trust, they want to protect themselves through a law that will also be relevant in the Republic of Serbia, that they can conduct parallel investigations that they have conducted until then. These analyses can be done abroad, in a way. Therefore, the amendments, which we did not have a public hearing in public, were also discussed by Assistant Minister Backovic at the RTS Public Service to refer to some of the amendments. We only had a chance to see them when the meeting of the Justice Committee began two days ago. So it justifiably deepens the doubt of the parents in order for the state to solve their problem. Since I am not a proponent of populism and of the populism that we are all exposed to, especially the abuses of such topics for political purposes, I could not criticise this many laws without offering you a solution. There is a solution and there is a possibility that we can solve these problems and meet the only interested group in this case, and these are the parents of missing babies. The first thing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do is think twice, not burdening anyone else whether the decision, when you made the law, was good or not and to withdraw this law, to invite parents, NGOs, the interested public and to rewrite the bill. Secondly, what we can do, or what this institution can do here, is that my colleagues who make up today's ruling majority in a few days, when the time of adoption of the law comes, don't press the "yes" key, that the law that will be inadmissible in practice or will bring bad results after applying no vote. The third thing that can be done, which is to send a message today from Nikola Pasic Square to Andric's wreath and say that if my colleagues are to press the key and vote this law, the president of the state may not accept it and return it to the assembly procedure. These are three procedures that we can from three different institutions to do to meet the demands of parents who are looking for their children, which are essentially just not trusted in the state. To restore their trust in the state, that's the goal. What can we do as MPs? I know what we're gonna do. If this law is passed and the president of the state accepts it as such, my parliamentary group will surely submit a draft law on the termination of the law that the Assembly will adopt and we will address the Constitutional Court. I'm sure the parents will continue to address the court in Strasbourg. So let's all be very well-intentioned. I don't think anyone sitting here in this room today is well-intentioned. Let's understand what parents, looking for their missing children, expect from us. Let's not pass this law. Let's send a message to the Council of Europe and to a session expected in early March from which Serbia is likely to suffer the consequences because it has not responded to the verdict it has been made. Let's all MPs write a request to the Council of Europe and ask them not to adopt a resolution condemning the state of Serbia, for example. Let's show that there's something we call a national interest, but really, to bite each other, whether we're on the side of the government right now or we're on the side of the opposition. This question isn't about either side. This is a national interest. Through this issue, we will restore trust in the state they lost in the meantime. So once again, I'm going to repeat what we can do -- that you withdraw the law from the assembly procedure, that the MPs don't press the key in the voting day and vote this law, that the president of the state doesn't do it, as long as the law here is declared adopted. I ask you to prevent all the bad consequences of law enforcement, which we already know today is not applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72359	Thank you, Mrs. Macura. The word has Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72360	Dear MPs, indeed your tendency to talk through dialogue and arguments and about very sensitive topics, which are crucial for you to say about parents, and I say about the identity of individuals, and about the brothers and sisters of those who are suspected of missing babies were thirty, forty years ago, and also about grandparents and blankets who wear both that seal and that desire to get to the truth, is somewhere where we really agree on human and parliamentary issues, and it should be absolutely a subject that will surprise the best possible solution. This procedure takes a long time to discuss the law, and every MP has had the opportunity to submit his proposal. Somehow, it seems to me that the criticism of what is done is not good has become a feature of all of us, and I cannot agree with you that because the law is not good and because certain provisions of the law can be interpreted, of course by those most affected by the truth, that it is at all a matter of missing babies, a question of Serbia, I cannot agree that this should be the reason that parliament does not solve it, or that here in the dialogue, through amendments, we do not fix the text of that law, that we do not vote it and ultimately that the President of the Republic does not sign it. It's all kind of a suggestion that I'm astounded by that there are those who work and those who break down, who criticize. I've really seen your emotion, and I don't doubt your desire to make a contribution. Somehow this House is not compared to a concrete suggestion, how to fix the existing text and what to do to make a greater number of interested people satisfied with this text. I have no argument that Mrs. Zivkovic did not believe that she spoke to one of her parents and that parent even suggested that the name be heard about. What is certain is that when the Protector is a citizen and when we have received a suggestion, that is, when we have received a definitive ruling from the European Court of Human Rights that the right to family life referred to in Article 8 has been violated. The European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights, when we faced this truth, and we got the suggestion to create a mechanism, to come to the truth, that suggestion has been going on for a long time, and when we have withdrawn all the laws, and so we have withdrawn this one, not for the reason that something is being manipulated by the very text of the law, but simply the new council has withdrawn all the laws that the previous composition of the Government gave, so again in 2019, in the assembly procedure, this law is being found, and now we are talking about it, I must say that all the institutes that you had as a possibility here have been used. You had a public hearing on November 19th. Mr. Sumberg, who is otherwise the executive for the execution of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg, was present on that occasion. He, in a sense, expressed his satisfaction with preparedness, even with the text offered, and it seems to me that one of his questions was -- why is this text not going, indeed, into concrete procedure? It doesn't matter just what the individual said and what the European Court of Human Rights' suggestion is. What matters is what Slavica was talking about, it's important that when you pass a law, you always have the opportunity to have changes and additions to that law, you always have that possibility of life denying the need for a solution to some of the proposed provisions, and that others actually confirm that. It seems to me somehow that the need for people who are now 40 years old to know their identity for sure, that the need for grandparents to know who their grandkids are, of course, is primarily the need for parents because the parenting instinct is one of the strongest impulses to be satisfied, and finding mechanisms and a proposal for this text of the law to come to the truth whether any newborn child in a period of several decades has really passed away, whether it is true that it was trading with that child or maybe it is true that all of those elements can be determined that the court can bring the solution that the first or second reason previously stated is satisfied is something that is the reality that we have to face. In case it is found that there is not enough argument, and the law really foresees not only a special procedure and an enhanced process of discipline in a formal legal sense, but also provides for the delivery of evidence and data to the court as soon as possible, so an emergency procedure, provides for the exclusion of the public, especially the trained police, official who will participate in all these procedures, the various reliefs related to fees and costs, suggests that if during the proceedings in the out-of-pared part of the establishment there is a suspicion of criminal proceedings that the court immediately submits criminal charges to the competent public prosecutor. Therefore, these are rather strong arguments that in this memento it does what is possible, as part of the suggestions and needs, and that, of course, this matter can change in perspective. I agree that it is better to pass a law that may suffer some changes than not to regulate such sensitive matter. You know, this is not at all popular. And the moment this government and we all participate in this debate, we're actually saying that we don't need to just get applause. We are actually sending a message, and I thank the MPs for really participating in this, that we must solve difficult issues. If it had been better, including your ideas, Mrs. Macura, we'd probably be discussing such ideas. What's suggested, this is at this point an opportunity that gives you better possibilities. I really thank you, and I hope that the amendments will certainly correct the text, that you will vote this law. The government won't pull it, she wouldn't propose it if she wanted to pull it. You will certainly decide as Parliament's life requires, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72361	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Right on the line, the comment is Tatiana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72362	I thank the chairman. I understand the position you're in today, given that you're not really representing the Ministry of Justice today, but the Ministry without portfolios dealing with some other issues. What you may not know because it is not within your jurisdiction is that this law in 2016 and how the MPs tried to correct the amendments. However, even then, even though we were very well-intentioned to send these amendments, they can be found in the congregation archives, and I can hand them over to you at some break, we realized that the law itself was incorrigible as all parent associations, as well as NGOs that dealt with these issues. Also, I have to deny you, there was a bill written with the help of excellent lawyers, including Vesna Rakic Vednelic, for example, parents' associations, and addressed them to the debate, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, we have never been as public, as MPs, nor these parents, nor NGOs, nor you as representatives of the government, nor have we gathered around this bill, to discuss it, and to try through the public debate of this bill to improve. In essence, the question arises, this bill, which is now on the Parliament's agenda, where he, since no public debate has been held in the meantime, has not been respected by the parents' efforts to improve this legislative proposal and on the other hand, there is reasonable doubt that the Ministry of Justice has persistently insisted that all relevant associations of parents be removed from writing this law. Until the very beginning of the public hearing held here at the end of last year, there was no telling who would be invited to public hearing at all. Many relevant NGOs have not been given the opportunity at all to address this public hearing. So, I understand your efforts to defend this law in front of the government today, but I, as someone who has been through this Council since 2016, been familiar with this bill, tell you that you are wrong when you say that MPs did not have their own proposals, that the public did not have their own proposals or that it was self-exclusive. It ruled out the Ministry of Justice, parents, NGOs, and also the MPs in some way, by discrediting this topic in public with a story, you know, and they haven't even done it before. We know who didn't do it all. So for 40 years, this problem has been floating in the air. I repeat again, this is Pandora's box opening today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I understand both your position and the position of the Justice Minister who is not here today and the Prime Minister who is not here today. I understand all of you and understand your best intentions. However, this law, as it is written, with serious exclusion from the public, parents and NGOs, will not be well applicable, will not protect the interests of parents seeking their missing children.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72363	Thank you, Mrs. Macura. The word has Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72364	It's a good thing you found out that I'm a representative of the government, not a Chamber of Demography and Population Policy today. So, you know, government members are very serious about all the bill proposals they send and they're very much behind them, no matter what they have their own portfolio, and I'm glad you've figured that out. You said the bill was passed, I was, of course, interested in what kind of bill it was. First of all, the proposal envisioned a commission to take over the jurisdiction of Serbia's courts. So, it just wasn't possible, it wasn't allowed, because it's unconstitutional. That was the basic reason why we couldn't even discuss something that was unconstitutional. On the other hand, you yourself said that both the internal and external activities of this Parliament were so broad, that so many of us participated in a wide range of decades of efforts to get to the bottom of the truth that is the essence of this law, because this law does not actually end the possibility of criminal proceedings. This law, in fact, obliges all those who establish any basis of doubt that a criminal procedure should be initiated, to do so. This law does not derogate any proceedings, no individual before courts, nor do we deny anyone the right to do what could have been done so far. This law only gives us the opportunity to make it easier for the mechanisms that are proposed here to come to the truth, which will now facilitate the fundamental human position of the people we talk about here and that I believe we all feel the same way. So the proposal that was submitted was unconstitutional and thus I conclude this segment of my participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72365	Thank you, Professor Djukic Dejanovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72366	I have to say once again, it's not the point of convincing each other today which law was worse. The point is, it has to be rewritten. That's the point. So, the Justice Ministry must show good faith that it wants to restore citizens' trust in the state, in our Republic of Serbia, to put this issue as a question of national interest, that we understand that this law, as it may be, was contrary to the Constitution, that this law that will come into force, if we adopt it in a few days, will also be contrary to the Constitution and that we will again burden Serbia's Constitutional Court to resolve another one in a series of laws, which will prove to be against the Constitution. So I want to stop it, to do everything in our power. You, as representatives of the government, try to withdraw the bill, we as MPs, not to pass that law. If all this happens, let's tell the President of the Republic that he doesn't sign the law, because the law has serious problems. We'll get into a situation sooner or later to withdraw this law. Sooner or later, we'll get into this situation, what we can predict today. I don't want this debate to be misused, to tell you how many laws we've warned only in this Assembly of misapplication after adoption. So, simply, today, circumstances can be predicted that this law will not protect the interests of parents, that it will only lead to material compensation for their suffering for many years, how much they seek their children, but that they will essentially not solve the question of where their children are, if they have passed away, where they were buried and what happened to them, if they are alive, where are they? Who's responsible? Why did the institutions of all these years back protect individuals who did this? So simply this law does not absolutely guarantee that their interests will be protected.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72367	Thank you, Mrs. Macura. The word has Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72368	Now I'm really going to be very short. Returning a complete procedure to the beginning doesn't lead to anything. At this point, the government has estimated that this is the offer MPs need to discuss. The discussion and your votes will be at the end and a control mechanism for us in the government, for us promoters. What is certain is that you have both the representative and the legislative right and the obligation as MPs and that on behalf of the majority of whom Col. Macura is speaking, you will declare yourself in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72369	Thank you. Now the word is Mr. Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72370	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would have made this topic a little different than it may have been treated so far. In fact, we, I want to say this existing ruling coalition, among other things, by coming to power, have defined and expressed the strongest political will so far in the past, including to fight corruption and organised crime. That's why I'm going to express my gratitude for finally having one law that treats one of the most difficult forms of organized crime. If not by the number of works, then surely by social importance, by the sensitivity of the human in the overall humanitarian view of the whole thing. So I mean, I'm going to say something in the end, but that's why I don't think it's possible to accept the idea that this law should be withdrawn or not passed. The fact is, and we all realize that, the law of the problem that exists is late, but it's also very welcome the way it is, with all possible weaknesses, someone said here, seems to me to be a minister, that it's likely to be improved in an individual debate. I would like to point out what the lack of the law has so far produced the negative things this law will surely deny, at least to a large extent, if not 100%, because no law has ever regulated everything. It's about the next one. If you remember those who were in the Assembly, in 2013, we discussed some of the topics in which I was at the time, I would like to remind, find the following and get approval for that, that there are two things in the fight against organised crime. First, the definition of organised crime characterizes, first of all, crime with state institutions, officials and other institutions that are not always state-owned. That's the first thing. And I'm convinced that we're going to get there, and I'm also convinced that here in this problem there was a string. I'll tell you some things after they testify. That's why it's a form of organized crime for me. This is why I would like to talk about the behaviour of the competent authorities involved through these competencies in this issue that this law regulates. So, we, the PUPS parliamentary group, also spoke to representatives of the parenting association, so you have in mind that we have that full information that some colleagues have been talking about here. In addition, I think and want to make a general point, when it comes to the behaviour of the competent authorities in this matter and the particular behaviour of the organs towards parents and their associations in the contacts they sought and received in the talks. This behavior has been characterized in one word, as mild as it can, indifferent to this problem overall taking, not counting individuals etc. I think it was working, and it absolutely needs to be concluded, and it's important, and not the withdrawal of the law and refusal, that the behavior of those who should have been resolved, which are now legally indicated to solve this problem, there was absolutely insufficient respect for parents and their associations to the extent that the most sensitive matter was there, that in the appearance of parents in front of all the representatives of any institution, whether they were competent for this, carried the soul and touched the soul of the people of those people, and that the authorities responsible for that had not had enough hearing. I'll tell you one thing, please listen. I'd very much like to see one of the MPs present know what I'm about to tell you. I've had, unfortunately, for me, even though I'm not personally, familyly tang with this one, an extremely difficult moment, and I can think of it as a parent. I've had a chance to see the video and hear, a meeting of the official representatives of parents and associations, with high representatives, not to mention, some health organizations. In the debate, a senior official, an expert tells a mother who knows nothing about her child, that when they treated the question why, if their children were born dead or died right after birth, why didn't their children be given up to be buried? He answered, listen to this well, please – madam, it is for us that you are looking for medical waste. Be careful, tell the parents who were present and the mother who spoke to him. What kind of relationship are we talking about? That's why I'm happy that there are these elements in this law that provide adequate behavior for those who need to solve these problems. I think that is why we must ensure, through the Assembly, through the Government of Madam Ministers and in all other ways, that we must ensure better insight and correction of the work of the state authorities, especially the judiciary, on this agenda. I think that should be one of the conclusions. I'd like to say that this law has done one very important thing, it's mentioned here, but I'd like to look back on it, too, that it's planning to form a specialist interior team for this issue. I understand that so that the state will finally access continued research and investigations into this problem. As professional as possible, it means a criminal approach. However, I ask that, in the design and jurisdiction of this expert team, we do not take it lightly after the fact that they should only deal with investigations in cases ordered by the judiciary. On the contrary, in addition, they have to do this, they have to keep dealing with this as a problem and explore everything backwards since this problem has arisen. In doing so, I urge them to be directly committed to working with their parents and their associations. You believe in conversations, and probably if someone else talked, he made sure of it, we made sure that these people, because we talked to people who have been doing it for 20 years, there are those who do it a lot longer, that people have self-initiatedly explored things so deeply for 20 years. So much material they have that they've been in contact with, it doesn't matter which court, they've delivered 120 processed objects and asked to run something. You know how it ended? By answering in writing and looking back at these items and sending only to that association, not one authority, not to any court, not to any other body, nothing has been initiated. People have this data and research, they've come up with names in Germany people who said the names of people who offered to buy children, and that's not the reason and the information that the court started and went after it and explored it. Well, if we had solved at least one case so far, so let's say -- here it is, but it was from being impossible to solve the maltenes. So I ask that in the formation of this body for investigation, which will depend heavily on how many courts will be forced to resolve these issues in order to do so well. In all of this, it means, especially when better insight into the work of the competent authorities, etc., I think that we here in the Assembly must agree on this whole opus to find the right place and the Committee of the Judicial Committee. Also, in the whole problem and solving of what the law sets up by parents and their associations must be more intensively than previously included and used, above all in the work of an expert team of internal affairs. I think I look back at it, finally, that the law as it is, no matter what fellow Macura said, I think the law will improve the fight against this kind of crime in a significant way. But it has to be, and it has to be an effort and I ask the government to take care of it strictly, it has to be updated. The Minister mentioned changes and additions, etc., but also in any other way. I think that if we go agile in the process of solving this problem, I am convinced that we will have experience every year that will require that we innovate the law and that we will perfect it by doing so. In the end, I'd like to say one very important thing, and that law didn't seem to regulate anything. Starting first of all from the human feeling, from humanity, from the heart and soul of the mother, from the parents, from the relatives. I think it should be provided, although it is really how this expert medically ungrabed at least expressed that it is medical waste, that it should be this law, if he said so, I don't know, I'm not even a lawyer, and I didn't even follow that problem, whether it's legal treatment for them, and if it is necessary by this law to disprove it and allow parents to have a dead child or shortly after birth to give their parents, to give their parents as much comfort and to bury that child. That requires humanity, until it demands humanity, no one should be an MP, no minister, no one, to stop with this. Please accept this as the conclusion of the Assembly and order it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72371	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word is Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72372	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Djukic Dejanovic and his associates, the bill today concerns a very sensitive long-term problem, which, unfortunately, is not only about our country. It is a bill to determine the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. This problem is not unfortunately new, but it was activated when in the early 2000s parents who suspected their children had disappeared, organized and formed associations where a single struggle and a common quest for truth about their children believed not to have died in maternity care. By then, every parent who suspected his child hadn't died in the maternity ward, looked for the truth himself, collected data, but often came across a closed door. It is easy to criticise, and so I will remind myself that and how it has dealt with this topic and this problem and I am free to say that the real state institution that dealt with this problem, which has officially opened and started to deal with it, was exactly the National Assembly. In 2005, on a proposal from the parliamentary group, the very SPS, the first Survey Committee was established to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia. The Bureau has worked for over a year, listened to a large number of parents. A report was issued from the work of the Survey Committee and a number of measures were proposed to remove shortcomings in regulations and procedures. At the head of this poll committee was the magistrate of Živodarka Dacin, a member of the SPS. The report and the conclusions of the Survey Committee that were then reached, with the full consensus of all participants, therefore, and the parent associations, were satisfied, because it was the beginning of institutionalisation and the beginning of the resolution of this issue. I will mention the most important measures then proposed by the Committee of Auditors in 2006. First of all, to form a specialized M.O.P. unit with a mandate to investigate in detail all cases of parental suspicion that their children have disappeared from maternity care. Secondly, to remove the Institute of Depreciation from the criminal prosecution of the perpetrators of this part by amending Criminal Law. Third, to establish a special prosecutor's office and a special court to combat organised crime in these cases. Fourth, to carry out regular supervision of the management, storage and archiving of medical records. Fifth, to clearly define legal procedures in the case of a newborn child in maternity care. The sixth, to regularly oversee the work of maternity services to establish possible failures in cases of reported infant deaths in maternity homes. Like the seventh, to pass the DNA register bill. Then, to take measures to unblock the work of the judicial authorities and the competent services of the MUP, so that parents can initiate procedures and receive adequate information and information. The National Assembly then unanimously adopted in 2006 a report by the Survey Committee which proposed its conclusions and the proposal to the competent authorities at that time. Also, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, when adopting the Health Protection Act, managed to establish a legal obligation to notify parents of the fact that a dead and newborn child was killed in a health care facility, as well as that the postmortem of the deceased baby and what is most important in these cases should be taken and preserved permanently by samples of biological origin. This would remove the suspicions of parents who suspect their children have disappeared from maternity care. Also, at the time of the adoption of the Penal Code in 2005, and also later, our MP group requested that a special crime be brought into the law to bring about the disappearance of babies from the maternity ward and that the ageing of these cases be abolished, however many there are, because we believe that stealing babies from the maternity ward, if that happens, is a crime. The problem of "stealing babies" later in 2010 was addressed by the National Assembly through the Working Group of MPs of all parliamentary groups. You then led such a committee as the President of Parliament and took part in it. Then, the Citizens' Protector, who made up a report in 2010 on complaints by several parents, which also found that administrative procedures in such cases were quite inconsistencies, as well as that the documentation was not held responsible, that there was unwitting work of some officials, including the service. So what's important as a lesson in all this is that today without a special investigation of specialised organs, you can't say with complete reliability that babies born in foster homes in Serbia who have been found to have died without parents being allowed to look into remains are not illegally separated from the family. It is this doubt that many parents must be removed by legal solutions that will enable them to reliably convince themselves of the truth. That's how I understand this problem and this debate today and this bill of law. This is the first attempt to codify this serious question, so there has been no law so far. So, in this bill of law, I see the first step of this government to solve this issue systematically and systematically. The goal is to get to the truth about missing babies through institutions, because parents, some of whom have been searching for their children for decades, can't and shouldn't do it individually and how they know and know and seek the truth. This law lays down all procedures and the competent state authorities which are required to determine the facts and lead the proceedings, which are courts, that is the MUP, of which the investigation will depend upon meeting these requirements. The law also defined the procedures and obligations of judicial authorities, certain courts to deal with the problem. So, what is good is that the court can also determine facts that have not been brought into action and that it is carrying out such evidence. Also, when requested by all state authorities, the court will seek all necessary written evidence, so now the competent authorities will not be able to avoid giving evidence, as they did on individual requests. It is also up to the court to determine whether the proceedings will establish the truth and facts, and when it finds that the newborn child is missing, the court is obliged to determine which body, organisation or institution is responsible for the disappearance of the newborn child. What is necessary for other laws is punishment for the perpetrators of such acts, because this law is not regulated and this is the task of criminal law, so I believe that the government and this problem will look into it. In the end, this is a very difficult and human and fateful and moral question. It is up to us, unfortunately now, to solve this and this is one difficult question. As human beings, we have compassion for parents, and I also believe that the truth must be known, and that this is one step closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72373	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorised representatives and president of the parliamentary groups? Nobody. Let's move on. The word has Dr. Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72374	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates and distinguished fellow MPs, today we are talking about very difficult and difficult topics. Today we're talking about children suspected of being stolen, and children are sacred and most sensitive, and so every word I use in today's presentation will be carefully chosen. First, I'd ask all the parents who suspect their children have disappeared in health care facilities to be wise enough, and careful enough. Wise enough to find a solution with us all, I would say decades of problems, and of course to be careful, not to let any politicians or quasi politicians abuse and exploit them for their dishonest purposes, because the topic we're talking about today must not be politics. Because the topic we're talking about today is everything but politics. Why do I say that? Because it's the only love that's unconditional parent love. Because parental love represents one of the strongest feelings. We know ourselves through history, we remember moments in our Serbian history when we were in slavery under the Turks, that the greatest punishment and pain for the Serb people was child abduction. We're talking about very difficult things today, difficult things, stealing children from health institutions. I'm not a lawyer, I'm a doctor by vocality, and I can already say that I have a significant number of years of work in health care institutions and what I'm trying to say is that in my career, I've never met any health care professional I've even suspected of being able to do something as mean and disgusting as stealing a baby. In particular, if we know that health workers are taking the Hippocratic oath, the oath of Florence finds an angel and they take medical ethics. So I hope that the words of my colleagues, Bora, who spoke before me, I hope that they will not come true and hope that they are not true in terms of the existence of an organized criminal group in healthcare that has done such a disgusting thing. There was no doubt that there were no abuses, no doubt that there were certain terrible moments such as stealing newborns, but I only hope there was no organized story, because then how to experience health institutions, how to experience maternity care, and the maternity home is the place where new life comes to the world, the place where this new life should be preserved, and not that such a terrible thing should happen. By preparing for this session and for this presentation, I've been in trouble with this big problem, as much as I could. What I want to tell you, and based on the insight of this file, is that there is a large number of cases that have been mishandled medical records, sloppyly guided, messy, where there is a suspicion that it is mishandled. It all triggered a legitimate suspicion that something so terrible had happened, I'm talking about stealing children. Looking at other objects, I've seen that somewhere medical records are very scarce, that somewhere is missing and that it's not there, that it doesn't exist. In such cases, in addition to that finding that suspicious cases occurred over a period of decades earlier, it happens that in such cases, also, witnesses who would be relevant are no longer alive, I am talking about midwives, I am talking about midwives, I am talking about all those witnesses who may have participated either as witnesses directly or indirectly or otherwise could give which-what answers were significant or less significant. Also, on the basis of an insight into the documentation available, I have seen that there are cases where there is no doubt that there is a legitimate fear of parents, therefore a reasonable doubt that there has been a child theft. In many ways I can confirm this claim and sentence. That's exactly why we need the law. That's exactly why we need a legal framework. That's why the court, based on this law of ours, will now, at the moment of the bill, proceed with the collection of evidence, with the determination of facts. The essential thing is that children are returned to their parents and that those who have sinned against the law are sanctioned. Now, that's what this law says. It's the primary thing that this law defines, not what we're hearing from congregation cults, that the primary thing is actually the monetary compensation that parents are going to receive. Of course, to define this law and that fair compensation, as it is called legally, and of course it should be defined in accordance with our Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. But she's secondary in this case. The primary thing is the truth. The primary thing is to get the children back to their parents. The primary thing is to get valid evidence. What I'm saying is that it's been a long time thinking about how to solve this problem. I think lawmaking is more than a good way, I'd say an optimal way. Why would I think that? Because in the evidence procedure only in court, we can get evidence that comes from both parents and the state, or institutions that are relevant, but also comes from different witnesses who can contribute to the resolution of these significant problems. Also, what matters are members of this law, is to define the urgency of the procedure. There'll be no court proceedings here. There's no delay here. So this is exactly the law that defined this urgency of court proceedings. It is also not less important to define the appeal procedure. After the appeal procedure, the court shall decide. It's very important because of that subjectivity, where a man makes a decision. So, in the primary process, in the basic process, a judge makes a decision, in the appeal procedure, a court grander. That way, further, let me say, this story about solving these problems is given to seriousness. We also heard here and a few sentences and a story about our obligation to the European Court of Human Rights. That's a fact. We do have a commitment, not only because of the process Mrs Zorica Jovanovic led against the state of Serbia and won at the European Court of Human Rights. We need to do our system the way it suits a serious rule of law. I think the essential thing, not the recommendation of the European Court of Human Rights, is our desire and our drive to solve both the huge and dramatic problems that date through a longer period of time. I'm deeply aware that no legal act, no law is ideal, especially when we're talking about this kind of troublesome stuff, about the subject. But again, for the first time in this country, things don't get pushed under the carpet, they're trying to come up with a solution. What is also important is why I respect the people of the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health, who have had the strength to try to solve this decades-old problem together with us, the MPs, in one such way, by a bill like this. I will also remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I will remind you, gentlemen of the MPs, that the largest number of citizens' applications are based on this basis, so the theft of newborns was in 2004. Has anyone ever called before and after? Has the government ever tried to solve this problem in any way? I don't think so. There was no attempt. And now, when there's an effort to solve a big thing like this in the state, and there's no bigger thing than stealing children, now it's an insult to offer a fee, so it's a twist of facts, it's a twist of law, it's commented that the fee is actually primary, and everything else is secondary. Dear citizens and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an insult to all of us and to the state why this has not been discussed significantly before, why Parliament has not spoken of this ten, twenty years ago, why no legal act has been passed, why it has not been tried to resolve it. Was there an effort? Was there any desire to get rid of it? It's not. Now, that's a shame and it's an insult to our people. Once again, I would like to say that I have an absolute understanding for parents and their aspirations to come to the truth. The essential thing is that through this law we come to a quality solution, of course, along with amendments to this law and finally put an end to this decades-old problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72375	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72376	Thank you. I didn't mean to talk about this, and I'm not going to spend all the time that belongs to me in the Rules of Procedure, but I couldn't, without just commenting on a few things and agreeing with everything that's been said that this is a subject and a point of the agenda that's not an ordinary part of the agenda, that I don't have to approach it like that, and especially not on a day-to-day political basis. I agree that this is one of those topics that shouldn't be shared or at least shouldn't be shared by the opposition lines, as well as some other things and other points of the agenda that were here on the agenda, from the truth of the consequences of NATO aggression, through the determination of victims, through the Tian's law that was adopted here in the spring, or last spring, and, let's say, these and other topics. So, there are things that go beyond... Of course, and everything about the issue of territorial integrity and sovereignty should also not be something about which there are such trench differences. There may be an amendmental difference, around the accent, about whether something good is being solved, to a sufficient degree of protection or not protecting something to a sufficient extent, but not having pre-priced, trench positions. Unfortunately, we have been very rarely in practice, in the functioning of this Parliament, able to overcome these differences. We can discuss who's guilty or guilty, but it's a sad fact. On my part, for example, I have demonstrated, for example, this very law mentioned or some of the laws mentioned, or proposals that were in the Assembly, including this Tijana Law, therefore, that willingness to overcome these party or positional divisions around some of the key things. I am sorry that such a tendency has not been sufficiently recognized, respected either by the opposition colleagues, and the ruling majority that I do not speak. I am particularly sorry that it wasn't or at least it wasn't enough on these state issues, such as the question of KIM, such preparedness, and even that debate that was organized here in the Assembly wasn't in that spirit about KIM. After many demands the opposition made for this debate, they eventually didn't come or they didn't come, and on the other hand the authorities used it to, of course, promote their own positions. Either way, I would be very prepared and I would also like to make a small contribution on this subject and contribute to this consensus that we as a society are extremely and screamingly in need of. However, I can't go deaf about the objections, I find the basic objections that the associations, most associations, see, now that they're not completely agreeable either, but the associations of the parents who contacted me, who brought me to this bill. So it's no problem for me to vote along with the congregation majority on some of the things that are undeniable here. I won't do it this time. Of course, I won't vote against it either, but I won't be able to support it, because I think some of the fears and reserves shown by these associations have grounds. I heard today, and I read and heard Minister Stefanovic, I see also in the media, and his emphasis, as well as some other colleagues, that it will not, the adoption of this law will not make it impossible to investigate, will not mean closing cases, that the work does not go out of date and so on. But maybe someone tried and manipulated, and I'm not going to rule it out either, but I'm pretty sure those families, those parents, those people I met, I've had a chance to meet in the past few weeks, months, they're certainly not someone who'll volunteer to serve some party and daily instrumentalization and abuse. These people are really looking for the truth, for the terrible and painful truth about their missing babies. I'm sure they wouldn't, I'm saying, be that their search and their pain trades, as they're not willing to trade it for this material compensation either, so they wouldn't trade it for any political point, not even for themselves, let alone some other political options, so if sometimes we have a reasonable doubt as to whether there are any policies in the views of some legislators or legislators, here we should be worried about removing it, because I'm saying, I'm sure those associations and these people certainly don't have that superficial daily motive. So they have genuine pain and have genuine fear that these solutions are not good enough. Some think they're terribly bad, some think there's positive shifts, I think there's positive shifts, but they don't think they're satisfactory to the end. What my esteemed colleague and predecessor here now said, he was a little bit contradictory, he said – he believes and wants to believe, i.e. He doesn't want to believe that one of his fellow doctors who belong to his branch was involved in a systematic, organized baby theft, etc. And I want to believe that he's right, but later on, he said it himself – but, unfortunately, either or at least there is, I quote: "founded doubt or reasonable doubt that it was". If there was one case, it was terrible, and there was, I'm afraid, a lot more than one case. What I took the word for, among other things, and I often miss here for a variety of reasons to say, is that I also feel some kind of personal responsibility, purely subjective and psychological, because when I first heard of that case and those stories, they were so terrible to me that I, here, admit, didn't want to believe them. So, I'm like someone who... It certainly belongs to the more notified people in this country, and I thought it was an exaggeration, and I thought there was no way that this was happening, that at best or worst, perhaps, is an unsupervised record. We know what it's been like with us, especially in the past decades, and that maybe it's an unsupervised record, not carefully enough, which is, of course, terrible and when it comes to potatoes, let alone human lives or human beings, that it's not adequately recorded and that's how the problem has arisen. This is where the word fell from each other's esteemed colleagues and forewords, and that expression he used next to the fences is a term that is often mentioned, that these beings are treated as medical waste, and that's true. That doesn't lessen the problem, on the contrary, but it is a terrible fact. I can't imagine anyone showing or showing that child to a parent or mother, that he can deny, and that was also a massive case in times past. So that doesn't mean that all cases are and that all such cases are thefts, but that was also likely to be organised and systematic baby theft, it's unfortunately a very likely assumption not to say the fact. So, at one point when I first heard about it, I suspected or thought -- well, it's so terrible that it's impossible that this is the case, and now somehow it makes me more sensitive to the objections and reserves of the association of these parents of missing babies, who have these reserves and have their observations. In that sense, especially that it is another species, as I would say, crimes or failures, then I thought it was some strange people, some desperate people, and then I met people who are conscious, reasonable, often and educated, although, of course, there are different social layers, very sober in their demands. I guess that pain or that accident kind of blew them off, made them kind of better than some average of our population. So it's not some fanatics, extremists, or, God forbid, some who wire and want some compensation, something to get, to take advantage of. You see, they even refuse, or some of them, make up for it. So, if I didn't, I would appeal to the government, just because that thing is so important and so sensitive, which is the effort, I see that the effort has been made certain and some shift has been made... I also agree with what we heard, it's a fact, in fact, there's nothing to be heard by some colleagues from the opposition, that it's under pressure, of course, the European Court of Human Rights ruling, that it was a commitment from 2013, that verdict, that it took another year to come out with this proposal, but when it didn't come out six, seven years with it, maybe we can postpone another six months? Don't make some pre-election needs, to say -- here, and we've figured that out, that maybe a chance to find a better solution might be missed. This effort and effort that has been made, in order to satisfy the objections of some associations or to remove their reserves, why not use the time, the minister seems to me to be someone who is a good mediator and mediator, perhaps, in those talks, to make another effort with these organisations that have reserves, so that there is a legal proposal that will be acceptable to them. Then I'd be happy to vote for it. It's been six, seven years, we haven't fulfilled it. It could be another six, seven months, and maybe some other assembly of this parliament will adopt that, but I think it would avoid us sharing this too, where we shouldn't share. It is my concrete proposal and I hope it will be understood in the most well-meaning way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72377	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. We move on to the list, the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the laws referred to in paragraphs 6 and 9 of the agenda. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, Mr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72378	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I am one of the MPs who may have had the most intense communication with the parents of stolen babies. True, I avoided exposing these contacts to the public, simply so as not to take the context of political profit, because it's a very sensitive subject. I've also had opportunities to discuss in public hearings that have been put on this subject, but definitely this is a topic that should overcome any particular, above all, party interests and relationships. On the one hand, I appreciate the attempt to move this bill from a dead end and that is a certain step. However, I am not sure that it is good to understand this issue in a way "better to pass the law any other than none" and that by adopting this law we will close this issue. The issue of relations to stolen babies from the level of the National Assembly, executive authorities, judicial authorities, in general the state and society as a whole, is not one of the political and legal issues. It's a question where we don't define just a relationship to one of the most disgusting crimes that's called stealing newborn babies. This is a topic that we actually define our relationship with ourselves and therefore this issue cannot be one of the ordinary political and legal issues. That's why my view of this issue goes beyond the position of my party and the position of political partners and any other relationship, because by determining your own attitude towards this subject, you're actually determining yourself towards yourself and that's why I suggest that we don't rush into this topic at the end, even if the law is passed, that it's only the first step, and that's not even a close topic. We can't pass the law and be convinced that we're solving a problem, and we don't have any parents of those whose baby was stolen or disappeared that he's satisfied with that solution. In my many months of communication with these parents, I have received many items among which some are so convincing, of course so painful, and I try to control my own emotions right now and I do not want to enter the picturesque details of these objects. The latest item I received concerns the Sandzak family Hadzibulic, an event in 1995. It's twins, children who were alive for three days, parents saw them and suddenly the point. Every trace is lost. Apparently, the children died without being able to see any of them, the remains, the documentation and everything else. There's still such a convincing object. So ladies and gentlemen, let's understand this subject that one of the ones that tests our whole relationship, first of all, is individual and then general social on those issues that we can't come to terms with pragmatic political issues. I'm afraid that we've been overly pragmatic about our entire policy, and that's why we have a general breakdown and collapse of the entire ethical and moral system in our society, and the topics are famous and I don't want to delegate them now because of the short time. But this is one of the points where we decide whether or not the car we're going to stop or at least show the will to stop them. So please, total caution and a clear political message that if this law is to be adopted now it is only the first step with a clear message that we must endure to the end and be on the side of those parents. I choose between all other sides to be on the side of those parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72379	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. Professor Djukic Dejanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72380	It's a simple piece of information. The health care law is precisely because of experiences we have in the past, and once the law was quite dehumanized and unethical, amended, and now the very procedure for ending the stay of a newborn child after a fatal outcome goes necessarily with the signature and consent of parents. So the steps are made. Health care professionals and health care directors have always been obliged to protect their legality and behave in accordance with the law. Humanization and the ethics of the law are changing, and this is an additional reason that when a law is passed at one point, time can run over it very quickly and require a higher degree of humanity, ethics, expertise, because the laws must have that component as well. In that sense, I understand very much the participants in the discussion who side with one part of their parents. We had the opportunity to hear the MPs talking about the second part of the parent's position, but what's certain is that we had the law when Zivodarka Dacin simply called him amongst the MPs and initiated him, that we passed some law 10, five years ago, we could now analyze his implementation and take a step forward. This is an additional argument, honourable MPs, to question ourselves once again, because I deeply agree with all who say that today's debate is and our relationship to ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72381	Thank you, Professor Djukic Dejanovic. Muamer Zukorlic, here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72382	I think we got along pretty well. So, what should always be kept in mind, the text of the law is important, but at this point in particular, what is important besides the support of most MPs, which is an easier part of the adoption of the law, important and very clear to the general public who is very seriously interested in this law arguments why this is a single step. So my insistence is, in fact, that we strengthen not only the argument of the defence of the legal text itself, which I have agreed to represent a step forward, but also that we offer further arguments here in Parliament and before others, so to the audience and the media, in fact our awareness of what else is missing, not only in this law, but also in other possible steps and in other legislative regulations, but also in the operationalisation of the law itself so that we are also parents, but also in the general public, in fact, we do not have a dilemma here in the humanist weight of the issue. Somehow, with the banking of questions, let's say, compensation for damages to court proceedings, the impression that we are superficial in this, and that is why my insistence is there, not only that or not to oppose the law, but simply to point out the need for further interpretation and clear message of determination that we will not as a society, and we as express the representatives of that society are certainly on any other side not only of a group of parents, but of a single parent. To me, this particular human side here is of paramount importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72383	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. Now the word has been made by Professor Dr. Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly marked two legislative proposals in particular. One is the bill on rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil invalids of war and members of their families, and another is the law on determining the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. Both laws have irregularities to apply in practice, and there are discrepancies that affect the extremely sensitive social categories of the population in our country, including the fighting category, which should not be social, but the category of which we are nationalally grateful. Before I say a few words about this bill on determining the status of newborn children, I would like, since I do not have a chance to ask questions, to ask public questions to the representatives of the government, tomorrow there will be answers to parliamentary questions, but I will not be able to, so I ask the minister to pass it on to the members of the government. I ask you to pass on the question - who has made the decision to sell the most profitable bank, with the largest credit potential deposit, with the largest number of exposures in Serbia, "The Commercial Bank", which cleared the balances with 260m euros, paid off the liabilities to foreign investors and made a profit of 200m in the last three years? If we're selling something like that, what's the alternative? As far as I'm concerned, as a citizen, I'll even withdraw the account of registered agricultural landownership from that bank tomorrow. What are the other citizens going to do? It's their right, but as a citizen, I have the power not to support the government's decision with my own account. When it comes to this law, I ask you to pay attention to Article 2. The aim of this law is to determine the facts of the appropriate. Facts are either facts or not facts, they are suitable for some, for some they are not suitable. Next, Article 7. The humiliating penalties provided for in the last paragraph or the last paragraph, of 30,000 dinars. Well, those are speeding tickets, 10% or 15% above the 40-mile limit. For such a sensitive problem, it's really unacceptable. Article 14. The proposal can be set up by the parent of a newborn child if, until the day of entry into force of this law, it has been addressed to state authorities, and then you give priority to grandparents, brothers, sisters, etc. who don't even have parents, that they can turn around and apply afterwards. Do not belittle your parents in the draft of this law. Article 16 The proposal may be brought to court within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. This law must also apply in the future, to prejudge such cases. What does that mean? If someone does not apply within six months of the entry into force of this law, you do not have the right for future cases to file an application. Next, Article 21. The decision to adopt the proposal determines the status of the missing newborn child by establishing the facts of his death, the place where the child's body is located, or if it cannot be determined that the child is dead, the facts that explain what happened to the missing newborn child and the place where it is. It's just that so far there's no way to determine that. Fair cash compensation can only be determined if required in the proposal. Please, if requested, so no one submits a claim for compensation. What kind of parents apply for compensation? Don't limit them to these. A fair cash fee cannot be settled in excess of 10,000 euros. Well, please, and what is the minimum amount, zero euros, one euro, etc.? What about the twins mentioned by a fellow MP in the previous discussion? Is there 10,000 or two euros? I just want to show you what a quick wording of the bill means. Look at the point 4 of the argument. It's just enough for this law to be withdrawn, because it points to the irresponsibility of the promoter. (President: Thank you. Please, just let me finish. The application of this law provides for financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's total budget of 876m dinars, 70m dinars to cover the costs of higher court proceedings, 860,000 dinars for the payment of a fair compensation of immaterial damage. The funds needed to pay off the immaterial damage in 2018 will be provided through the redistribution of already approved funds by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Well, please, we're in 2020. What kind of explanation is this?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72385	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word is Milena Corilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72386	Dear Vice President, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs, a bill relating to the determination of the status of newborns suspected of missing from maternity care aims to resolve a difficult problem and a question that comes to the public from time to time. The unacceptable fact is that cases of missing babies have been dealt with through the survey board for more than a decade, and since then this issue has not been regulated legally. It is necessary that the facts on the status of newborn children suspected of missing from maternity care determine the basic evidence carried out in court proceedings, as proposed by this bill, actually predicted. Therefore, this bill means that at least something in this area should be initiated from a dead end and that, in cases where a doubt is warranted, the parents of those children should be given a certain amount of cash compensation. I think that this solves only one number of problems related to this issue, because no financial compensation, in whatever amount, can compensate for the physical and psychological pain of parents who have indeed suffered such an accident that their children are missing under the pretext that they allegedly died. The whole missing children case is a legal and moral problem. The right of parents to know what is wrong with their children, and the flow of time has already made it to the true and complete truth, unfortunately, now very difficult, if not impossible. It is also difficult to establish the possible criminal responsibility of the perpetrators of such misdemeanors. I therefore feel that in such a situation, what is realistic and possible is done, and this law has that intention. The procedure proposed by this law, where it sought to highlight the principle of urgency and confidentiality of the procedure and the provisions on the release of taxis from the proposings, came to the maximum meeting by proposings and, through respect of the investigative principle, to prevent the decision on the basis of automation. I think it is with Article 7 of this bill that it is set out in one correct way. The aim of this procedure is to establish that the newborn is missing and therefore to settle the compensation for the parents. I believe that Article 23 of Article 1 properly regulates compensation for damages caused by suffering pain and fear, but with the position of the 2nd same member, I do not think that a ceiling should be set for paying a fair fee of 10 000 euros, because it is something that has no price. Kids don't have a price. But this law, given the complexity of the problem, will not solve any more important issues, which is to determine the truth that we must try and come to. In some cases, when there are really reasonable doubts that one of those children suspected of missing is still alive, he may be able to take a DNA sample and compare it with the samples of those who claim to be parents. I think that for a start, at least part of the case would be resolved, parents came to the truth and they had the right to keep in touch with their biological children. The perpetrators of such misdemeanors, if they can't already plead criminally, at least a part of them would be found out and convicted to the public. It would be a just solution that would at least ease the injustice that was done to these unfortunate people. In any case, the most important thing is that we, as a state and a society, create such a system in which there will no longer be the possibility of such cases ever and ever happening again. It's our human and moral duty. In that sense, the PUPS parliamentary group welcomes the adoption of this law and in the voting day will support its adoption, both him and all the laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72387	Thank you, Mrs. Corilcic. Now I'm setting a break for one hour and we're back to work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72388	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72389	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the topic or matter that we are talking about today, we are discussing, that is, the law that is very difficult about its essence, in its content. I'm not a lawyer that I could be competent to talk about all this from the right perspective, but I'm sure on the ethical side I'm convinced it's about stealing babies, and that's one of the most difficult and monstrous crimes. Stealing a new life, created by parents, is a crime against crimes, and so I say on the ethical side, I don't think that such a crime can and shouldn't go out of date. Of course, I didn't say it first, and there have been such findings and such opinions before, but I think that this should finally be included in the legislation, and it should change that way. The second question that amazes all of this is respect for certain procedures and protocols when giving birth to a child or at the time of a dead child or at the death of a child in an incubator or after a few days while still in maternity care, which has been a practice in past times and in many cases. So it's just amazing that all improvisations have happened in such cases. Wasn't there strict rules and procedures in all of this that would make it impossible to commit such the most serious crimes, to steal babies? The guilt, I believe, was in institutions that did not take into account the professional and legal aspects of all these issues, and in such an environment when we have one laxity in the conduct of institutions, the possibility of organised crime appears and I believe that certainly organized crime was quite in these cases and that it was a shrew of many who worked in responsible places and who had to act differently but violated their morals, violated ethical principles and, of course, professionalism in the work. In the context of this whole story, when we talk about stealing babies, we actually need to encourage the need to pay more attention in the coming period, of course and in the present time, to respect all of these moments that have been a weak link in the functioning of all this, so that there is no repeat of such negligence that would allow possible new baby theft. I believe, of course, that the law in certain segments has also changed and the Health Protection Act and that there are certain moments and certain actions prescribed by law, which reduce the possibility of repeating such crimes. For years back, we have a great dissatisfaction of parents whose babies are in a strange way, or have gone missing, so to speak, and too many arguments go in favor of the suspicion that babies have been stolen. Far from resenting parents who today express dissatisfaction and who have wandered back and forth for years and decades and expressed their dissatisfaction with this condition. So, for years and decades these parents have been carrying the burden of their worst and darkest fates and the fates of their missing children, and this is the greatest sin that could have happened and that goes to the burden of the entire society system, including the state. Our task is to pass a law that would deal with this issue and that would go in the direction of resolving these issues. Again, our authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group Daniela Stojadinovic said that the first state body to start dealing with this problem is the National Assembly. In fact, on a proposal from the SPS Group in 2005, a survey committee was formed that worked on these issues for a year and reached certain conclusions. These findings of the survey committee are very, very serious and I will not repeat them, but we heard in Mrs Stojadinovic's discussion of all this and it is a pity that the largest number of conclusions has not been implemented and therefore no relevant law has been passed on this issue. Finally, by getting circumstances and other occasions here today we are discussing the adoption of such a law and by that people's if it's never too late, it's good that we now have one law as an initial step that will deal with the resolution of these issues, determining the status of missing babies, whether they have disappeared, whether they died in childbirth or after a few days, etc. So, I think that the text of the law, which has been given here, and of course which has been improved to some extent by amendments by the Justice Committee, I hope that perhaps another number of amendments proposed by the MPs will improve this text of the law. In any case, it is good that we have here that expert training of the investigating authorities will be done, then judges who will judge on these issues, then that the motion to initiate the procedure will also be the Protector of the Citizens, as well as a new member who treats the possibility of introducing DNA analysis, that is Article 17a. and is very significant and significantly improving the text of the law. This law may not be the best and I agree with the many objections that have been made here, but it certainly needs to come from something, so in the next step legislative regulation, because always practice in the application of the law reveals what is weak, which is bad and gives the possibility to fix it. In the end, I'll just say that one thing for sure, whatever epilogue of this kind of research and this kind of process through the implementation of this law, even in cases where it is revealed and the possibility to identify where that child is, sometimes a child, and now certainly a man, etc. Some things can never, unfortunately, be corrected. That's because the child that was stolen grew up and formed in a special and different social and family environment, which is certainly an environment that is not what it would be with biological parents. Such things cannot be corrected, but I hope that resolving such fate and coming to such truths will still be some satisfaction to parents who bear the greater burden of losing what is most precious to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72390	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72391	Thank you. The moment that one society manages to deal with one of the biggest nightmares that burdens and haunts it, then society starts beating everyone else and starting to be worth the right thing in terms of words. That is why today is also of paramount importance. It is extremely important that, here in the National Assembly, talk has begun and seek the best possible solution to this problem that burdens not only the parents of the kidnapped children, but every citizen and anyone who has their own children. Of course, in this respect, the best solution must be sought and that all that is proposed should be just the beginning, only convinces that in any case the entire system must be adjusted, that it should come out to the greatest extent possible for parents whose children have disappeared or have gone away from them in a certain way. Immeasurably difficult examples are when you listen to parents whose children are gone, their struggles, their fates, and all the strength they have to fight today because they feel like parents that their children are still alive, that their children are somewhere else in the world or somewhere else, they also exist in their need to find their own children. Today's example of academics Zukorlic, from 1995, the Adzibulic family, is one of those examples when parents got twins and three days those twins were alive. Eventually, they were told that one of those two children died to come and see. The parents came, however, and there was no child, nor did they give them any report, nor could the chapel have leftovers, so that they could bury the living child in the manner that they would call it. Their struggle, as well as the struggle of all the other parents, continues today. They have the right to know what's wrong with their children, have the right to find their children, have the right to be with their children. That is why we really consider this only at the beginning, although some decisions or some proposals in the law are not quite the happiest, such as the 10,000-euro compensation figure, it is absolutely unacceptable, because that 25/2 MG/MJ is something that in no case can be compensated for by any financial support, any sum. There must have been a lot, a lot more sensitivity towards parents who, here, for 25 years are looking for their children. They're looking to find out where they are, where they're headed, how these kids are gone, and where they actually live today, what are their fates, how they grew up, where they were raised, what kind of cultural miles they lived in, and what they've become today? Since 1995, 25 years have passed and these are now formed people, formed persons, and indeed, besides the National Assembly, all other authorities would have to put priority on investigating and other actions being carried out in order for parents to get answers about their children, regardless of who participated and who would suffer the consequences. Whoever participated in such wicked acts should bear the greatest possible legal consequences, because there is no greater monster than he who dares to harm a small or young baby, especially if he is doing so with the position this society has entrusted him with, believing in his ethics, his morals, and he has abused it to make the most of himself rich, and not just one family unhappy, but our entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72392	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72393	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, representatives of the prosecution, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nisa, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, here in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I was elected from the SNS list. This bill, which is now on the agenda, is something very difficult to talk about, but first I would like to thank the Government, the legislator of this law, because of courage, because back in the 25, 30 years, and it was no longer such a draft law in the Assembly on the agenda, to consider and to talk about all those problems that occurred in an earlier period. As Mr Stefanovic spoke in the opening part, the police minister said, when we lived in another state when Yugoslavia was, since then, nothing has been done. I think it's a good thing this bill came into the Assembly and we're talking about problems, about those kids who went missing in a way that we have to investigate, you have to know. Otherwise, the government has formed a commission that is very active. I talked to, I can tell my friend Radis Pavlovic, who is very active in this government commission. I talked to him because he had problems like that in one part. I think it's a good thing we're talking here. We'll have a chance to fix certain things, fix them, make them better. It's no good talking about missing kids, talking about missing kids who are out there with someone who aren't with their parents. We have experience that they were reporting, there were in some media, there were children who were found, now they're already mature people, talked to them, but as the police minister himself said, it was then an organized criminal group that was doing something the worst and the hardest, which is kidnapping small children, babies. I had the same case in my area in Srlig. That's what happened, and it's what it's looking for now, and I think there's been an investigation. According to my information, I think there are nearly 200 pre-examination procedures that have been conducted since earlier, which this government group has launched, the parent association, and the missing children who are very active, whose work group was in the area, we have had a number of negative cases, but the essence of everything is, I can once again commend the government for having now adopted and put the law on the agenda, regardless of which it could have waited for these elections to come, but all the honor of the government and our prime minister who accepted this law to put on the agenda to discuss. It's a sign that problems are solved, that this government is not running away from the problem, but wants to solve the problems. This is a problem, it can certainly be solved, and I think it's a positive thing that, through the amendments, we're going to have the opportunity to have certain things here in the law that we're talking about right now, to improve and to be for the benefit of everyone. The most important thing of all of this is that we know who's responsible, the most important thing of all, is that we know tomorrow where our child is, who has our child, and in the end it's important for all of us, for future parents that it never happens again. Now laws have been passed, rules where it is no longer possible. Otherwise, once again, I, as an MP and president of the USS, will support this bill. Once again, I thank the government for proposing this law, she did not wait for it to be after the election. This was in the first place, respect and this way I think it's good for us to slow down but we certainly see where the problem is, to continue these investigational procedures and to have someone answer for it tomorrow. Those procedures that began back two, three or five years ago, these procedures will continue to be done, but now that this new law is passed, normally with these revisions, the amendments will certainly be much better. Once again, dear parents, the people you've lost children, I don't think anyone here in the congregation has any intention of denying it, but I want us to solve the problem now that tomorrow knows how to do it, and those who have done something negative, they have to answer for it. Once again, I, as a United Peasants' Party MP, will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72394	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72395	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, but primarily Serbian citizens and the parents of the missing children we're talking about today, a difficult topic and I find it one of the most difficult to find themselves in this call. All a man says here is he risks hurting first of all those who are injured by the fact that someone has allowed himself the luxury of kidnapping their child by birth, with different arguments that, I must admit, when the only thing you can understand is that they're bizarre. Unfortunately, like everything in Serbia, this topic is abused politically and is generally discussed from different angles with the ambition to profit slightly. The only thing I'm not gonna do today is try to make a political profit, but I'm gonna say everything I really mean. First of all, Minister Stefanovic said in his opening statement this morning one very important thing about the parents who are in the process, i.e. in criminal proceedings, which is that the criminal proceedings that are over 200 are right to continue, and this law does not stop them in any way. The second thing is to say that behind us is a time period in which I can't quite claim that nothing was done, I can only say that we didn't all have the same good intentions. Some have also worked to harm these very parents, these very families and, firstly, these children who, with some invented identity, live today, no matter whether they are in Serbia or in the countries of the region or the countries of the EU. My colleague, Daniela, spoke about the 2005 proposal of our parliamentary group and the formation of a survey committee that had then had precise measures to be implemented. I'm not going back to that, first of all because she talked about it, but I'm going to say one thing. The first thing that mattered was to form a specialized M.O.P. unit with a mandate to investigate in detail all cases concerning their parents' suspicion that their children had disappeared from maternity care. We're talking about a process that happened as a result of a very active criminal group, and it didn't last for a while. She's obviously had her evolution all the years behind us. What's also important to say is that all the empathy that was happening to these parents was again well motivated by personal attitude and personal profit. What must be said unequivocally, and I hope this law will fix, is the role of prosecutors throughout the process. Why am I saying this? In the media, we were able to read different examples and hear different evidence from parents. What we can't claim today, and many times we've heard it is that there is no result of the government's commission when it comes to this, which simply can't be true. I remember, and you remember the case of Mladjan Radivojević from Lower Adrovec at Alexinec, so that only one case was located then it could not be said that the government's commission did nothing. What you can say is that it happened to somehow remain immune to the evidence that was available. First of all, we all talked to the parent associations of missing children, there are more of them in Serbia, but I'm sure every MP group, first of all because they wanted to really hear their voice, talked to them. It's just a question of what angle we wanted to hear them from and how we actually got out of that meeting. Their files aren't small at all. It is not worthless at all, and it may be unusable for one stage of these cases that I will talk about later, but is very useful for cases whose start and end is in the state of Serbia. I think there is one big commitment, and I firmly believe that this law, as much as it has been criticised, is certainly not great, but is the first law to be passed, so as such it will be promoted primarily to amendments, and then through practice when it shows its shortcomings. This most controversial provision of this law, the most controversial member, is Article 22 and Article 23, which speaks of some cash compensation, is the result of what happened in Strasbourg. It is a consequence of a qualification I must admit, I don't agree with on my own. A fair cash fee for what? It's something that separates itself from immaterial damage and I can only understand in the part in which each parent is allowed, and it's said that fair cash compensation can only be settled if it's required in the proposal. I firmly believe and I am convinced that very few people who are damaged in this way are even thinking about Article 22 and Article 23. What they think about is what the way is and what we will come upon. I'm not saying that Serbia's legislation is great, I'm not saying that this law will be crucial in solving their problems, I say that it is more of a step for them to help them in the processes that are under way. I appeal, first of all, to the D.A.'s office and to the judiciary to pay attention to all that is inconclusive evidence. Without the ambition to call anyone good or bad, he did his job. Remember that we recently had a case of 13 babies found in a private house in a freezer. I think that's enough reason for us to look at this problem more studioly. What seems to me to be a less resolved problem are children who are brought out of the state of Serbia in that trade, regardless of what period we are talking about, if we are talking about the former Yugoslavia, because I see that the reports of the Council of Europe Commission are somewhere saying that the countries in which this was most often happening, in particular the country of the former Yugoslavia, i.e. the Balkans, are the Western Balkans. In order for a criminal group like this to organize itself first, it had to have its own market. I'm afraid that when we get here, as rough as this sounds, it's awfully hard for me to say, but when those kids arrive at their final addresses, I'm afraid they're beyond the borders of Serbia's addresses we're not going to get to. This is what we would have to make an effort both as a legislative body and as a Government of the Republic of Serbia to make a resolution on co-operation and a trail of all relevant documents enable Serbia to reach the ultimate address of each child if it is proved that the child did not die, because practice shows that even triple birth protocols existed in some cities. I'm not a doctor, but doctors convince me that in practice it's not normal. Triple birth protocol, it's not normal at all. So this isn't an easy topic and this isn't just a basis for criticizing the government. I regret that both parents in one part and the media space and the moment in which the law is passed are abused, all to make a little political profit. I have to say something else that I have left, so completely, and first of all, on the subject of a discussion by one of my colleagues who said that this law was created as a consequence of a verdict in Strasbourg for Zorica Jovanovic. I don't think so, but that verdict also says the problem is coming back to Serbia again. In what way? In the way the Strasbourg court also estimated that all that Zorica Jovanovic had survived, that cost so roughly 10,000 euros. This one thesis that has been abused months ago that this government is passing a law that will pay for babies is a hundred times abused. This is not a law paying for children. This is a law that should allow parents to come into possession of a death certificate for their children or confirm that these children are not dead but are alive. There is also experience in Serbia that children, first of all men, who at one point declared dead and parents told the sad news, after 18 years at home, received an invitation to the military. That's what happened, not in Serbia, but in Yugoslavia. It's not hard to criticize, I say it all the time, it's hard to do something. I think as bad as this law is and as criticized as it should be, I have to have it, and I have absolutely no say that it should not be today, that is, in the day of the vote brought in. Do you need to fix it in that sense, absolutely yes. We'll talk more about him when there's a debate in particular. In principle, I have, indeed, just wanted to say that now full capacity and responsibility must show, first of all, the doctors who took Hopocratic's oath, and then the judges and prosecutors in which these cases will be found. Here we have to show that we are people above all else whose interests are of no importance, because I fear that so far we have been victims of the interests of individuals or organized groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72396	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72397	Dear Mr. Minister, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia and respected parents who fight for your rights to learn the truth. The missing babies' law is a very sensitive and painful subject. It dates back 30, 40 years ago. Parents are looking for the truth, children are gone. Can anyone understand their suffering and pain? This topic has been going on for a long time, and even a feature feature film with us "Saves" that speaks of one case. The passing of this law is an obligation to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The law was not prepared because of Zorica Jovanovic's verdict in 2013 from Strasbourg. It's been waiting a long time for this very important law. The fight for this problem began in 2002, 2005, 2010. My colleagues talked about these problems, so I won't repeat myself. For years, the Council of Europe has been asking the Serbian authorities to adopt measures to ensure that each individual case is investigated and that parents will receive credible answers about what happened to their children. By adopting this law, Serbia will fulfil its obligation to the European Court of Human Rights which has been ordered to establish a mechanism for determining the truth and compensation for parents who believe their babies have disappeared after childbirth. The draft law was held at a public hearing for three years and was sent as a proposal to the Council of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. He was withdrawn from the procedure by the formation of a new government that brought two amendments to improve the text of the law. According to some data in Serbia, about 5,000 missing babies have been reported missing for decades, while 615 criminal cases have been filed for the abduction of newborns, according to the MUP reported last year. The problem of missing babies, the resolution of which the Serbian Parliament began the debate at the time of the previous government, not the current one. This government is trying to solve it very responsibly and is trying to solve a decades-old problem. The problem is that the previous authorities covered up this topic. The problem of missing babies being put under the carpet, and on such a dirty and tasteless criticism by an opposition colleague, slightly speaking, I'm shocked. This is the big start to solve this problem which the law will be passed, starting from a dead end. No law is ideal, each subject to changes and additions, amendments, sublaws. The struggle for this problem began in 2002 with parents' associations addressed institutions. And were the MPs, Mrs Jerkov, Tepic, unfortunately Dr Raskovic, God forbid they used to talk to their parents. Their criticism of this law the other day in the lobby is their political marketing. In the making of the law, the head of real opportunities and Council of Europe's advice. The MUP said no investigations would be suspended. The prosecution will be able to proceed with investigations, because it is crimes that are not finished and that do not go on and on. The justice ministry and the MUP are one of the mechanisms that prosecutors and police can apply, to get to the truth and justice, and it is not contrary to Criminal Law. The prosecution as a roof institution will see in the investigation the possibility of pursuing those who are accusing of these crimes. The Law Working Group included the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, representatives of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Cassation Court, the State's Attorney's Office, representatives of the parent groups. The law was sent to the Assembly on 8 March 2019. The law says – the procedure is governed by the courts. In the first degree, the Supreme Court decides, and by appeal, the Appellate Court decides. Both apply the Act of Out-of-Parking Procedure. According to the law proposed, it is envisaged that in the first degree the proceedings should be conducted and the decisions taken by the judge individual, while in the second instance, the appeal and decision proceedings of the Council, drawn up by the three judges, are brought by the Court of Appeal. The law stipulates that it is the court's obligation to conduct the proceedings without delay, in an urgent procedure. In order for the court to obtain all necessary information and evidence, a time limit is prescribed in which the evidence must be left. As part of the interior ministry, police officers, who are specially trained for missing newborns from the maternity home in the Republic of Serbia, are designated to conduct investigations at the court's request. The procedure excludes the public. The law provides for the proposer to be exempt from paying the court fee and to be given free legal aid. I remind you once again that the Council of Europe gave an opinion on the draft law and a positive assessment after the text is in line with the recommendations of the body. This is a very difficult question, these are difficult cases that don't go out of date, that need to be solved and helped by these unfortunate parents to come to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72398	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72399	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, will talk about the draft law confirming the Convention on the International Implementation of Child Support and Other Family Members. This Convention was concluded in The Hague on 23.11.2007, so-called The Hague Convention, with a desire to improve co-operation between the countries with regard to the international achievement of child support and family members, as well as the need for procedures to produce results, that they are available, fast, effective, economical and above all fair. International maintenance has currently been regulated by the UN Convention on the achievement of alimony requirements abroad since 20.6.1956, so-called. The New York Convention. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is the most significant international document in the area of child rights, adopted on 20.11.1989 at the UN General Assembly. It establishes all human rights regarding the child. This document represents the most widely accepted legal instrument for the protection of human rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child so far has ratified 196 countries of the world. The Republic of Serbia ratified this convention on 18.12.1990. The practice pointed to the weakness of this Convention and approached the creation of a new document. It should be noted that the UN has decided to give full support to The Hague's conference on international private law in drawing up the Hague Convention. The advantages of the Hague Convention are as follows: a stand-alone and modern system of co-operation between the countries in this area, a single central authority that receives and sends requests, standardisation of necessary documents, obligations of central and other bodies to act quickly, precisely and notify of the status of requests and other advantages. Dedication to the best interests of every child, non-discrimination, right to life, health care, education, legal, civil and social service must be the Imperative of every country in the world. In the previous period, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been committed to the full application of laws concerning the rights of the child. The rights of the child are part of the laws of the system of education, of health, of social protection, of home affairs, of the judiciary and of children's protection. In Serbia, the government's Council for the Rights of the Child co-ordinates activities in this area. I note that this Council has launched an initiative to adopt a new national plan of action for children to define a long-term policy and identify basic tasks in protecting and improving children's rights in Serbia over the next 10 years. Speaking of children today, I will look back for a moment and point to the difficult position of children of Serbian and other non-Albanian nationalities in the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija. Not only are they limited to freedom of movement, but they live with fear of a uncertain future. Europe must think of those children who are deprived of a happy and safe childhood. The best interests of each child must be of primary importance in all activities concerning children, that every child, regardless of religious, national, racial and social status, has the right to a standard of living that meets his physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social status, that parents or other persons responsible for the child have the primary responsibility to provide the living conditions necessary for the development of the child. Therefore, the ratification of this Convention would allow all appropriate measures to be taken to ensure the collection of maintenance claims by parents or other responsible persons, as well as the maintenance of other family members by persons living in another country compared to the country in which the child or family member lives. In order to bring this Convention into line with domestic legislation, i.e. Family law is proposed, in accordance with Article 63. The Convention, making a declaration referred to in Article 2(3) in order to extend it to the achievement of international child support in regular schooling until 26 years of age, as well as a full-time child who is unable to work and who does not have sufficient means to support such a situation. All of the above aims to enable more effective control of the maintenance agreement, given the assumption that such agreements will most often be made in the form of public records. The adoption of this law and the accession of the Convention on the International Implementation of Child Support and Other Family Members shall allow for co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and other Contracting States and the Convention, in accordance with those objectives and needs of the principles declared. In Voting Day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72400	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72401	Thank you, Chairman. The bill on determining the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia does not deserve detailed analysis and reading of members and special technical solutions for the simple reason that if the purpose of this law is to find out the truth, then it has completely missed that purpose because the parents of missing children do not want this law. It is absolutely unnecessary for us to read its members, analyze legal-technical solutions, because in the public hearing that was organised, which they attended, they barely managed to push in, the parenting associations of missing children, no association of these laws supported. I guess that law is written for them. The parents of the missing children don't trust the state, because the government's commission that was designed to determine the truth or that at least it brought us closer to it did nothing and didn't file a single report on its work for two years, which was bound by the government's decision to form it. So the government formed a commission that didn't do anything. It speaks of the credibility of the government as a legislator of this law, because it was established to believe that this commission was then not even formed to seek the truth, but to create an illusion of something being done and to have some paper before the Council of Europe to show. The missing children's parents don't accept a legal solution, which, if they don't give DNA samples to the state, they practically give up the investigation and the case closes, because parents don't give DNA to the state, because they don't trust it, for a reason. There are parents who, through their own extensive, years of investigation, came up with paraffin molds, gave them for analysis in Germany, and obtained results from this analysis that their doubts just confirmed. Parents want an independent DNA analysis and will provide samples for such an analysis, as children have disappeared in state hospitals, in state maternity facilities and state authorities have cooperated and covered up evidence and therefore parents do not trust the state and therefore do not differ from many citizens. They don't need a law by which they'll only have the right to appeal at the height of a fee they don't normally need and that's embarrassing. It is not an unknown practice in the world to financially do some satisfaction when nothing else is possible. But let me tell you, that's what you have in Anglo-Saxon law, so when a car manufacturer's mistake kills a driver, the family sues a car factory and gets $125 million in damages, not 10,000 euros. But these people don't need money, they need the truth, and they say that this law doesn't and they don't want this law. Furthermore, the bill did not go through a public debate. One public hearing is not a public debate, even for that one public listening to the Association of Parents is not invited, but are hardly at the last minute on that public hearing. Since there was no public debate, neither parent associations nor professional public, they had no opportunity to make objections and it is incorrect to say now – the opposition criticises and real political marketing does not offer solutions, why don't you make amendments? No, because if you were going to call your parents to get involved in all of this. It is pointless to make amendments now if the whole business is accessed in such a way. Parents' associations are not invited to the task force that wrote this law. Again, I say, it is hypocritical now to invite anyone to write amendments, because as long as there is at least one parent association that opposes such a law, this law should not be passed and is not correct to at least one mother in Serbia who opposes it. The question arises – if the parents of the missing children do not want such a law, for whom is it brought? Who's he getting adopted to? What is the purpose of this law? I guess the goal is to have the parents of the missing children tell us -- the state of Serbia finally passed a law that we are satisfied with and we trust our country to implement this law and bring us closer to the truth, and many of us to the final truth and lead it. But parents don't say that. Parents say – this law is not it. When you vote for this bill, you won't vote for what the parents of the missing children want. I therefore appeal to the MPs to vote in the day to vote against this solution. I urge you to consider who you represent. Citizens. The parents of missing children are citizens of some of them and I urge you to vote on your conscience, not party discipline. The modern Serbian party will vote on behalf of the parents of missing children for them and for them, as their representatives against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72402	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72403	Talking about this subject today is very difficult, but also finding some satisfaction and justification for something that has happened in the past is impossible. This sort of thing that was happening, and there's evidence that it was happening, it's talking about one time and one government that then allowed that kind of thing to happen. Unfortunately, there were authorities before those who had the opportunity and the chance to pass a law on missing babies, who didn't even remember to talk about it, or even discuss it at all. What you have now pointed out and what the public needs to know, and not true in your presentation, is that there have been countless meetings with citizens, parents, that there have been public debates about what there is a government conclusion that there are public debates, that in the working group there have been parents whose children have disappeared, even their names exist, but that we are not reading them now, and perhaps the hardest thing in this whole story, because I can say it on my part, I can't argue that. My mother is 84 years old and I'm the only child she has survived, which in pregnancy, which in childbirth, she's convinced that maybe some of those children are missing. It doesn't and belongs to them and I fully understand my mother, because she lived in that time and she lost a lot of children and there's always this fundamental doubt that any of those children exist. She says she has that feeling. What's important is that she, of course, didn't sue the state, she doesn't ask the state for anything, but one of her feelings can't erase any law. Nothing in the world can bring back that feeling of motherhood she has. As Government, we were aware that whatever we did would appear to someone like you and would talk about it being wrong, that it could be different, that you were the smartest, that you would do it differently and so on, but I didn't see it coming out of you and said it – that's the way it is, but there is some better way that there is somewhere and someone has it, but no one had the courage to come out and tell those mothers – here, our proposal is like that, but your proposal is no good. Today, it is very brave to say such a thing and to expect your parents to pat you on the shoulder right now and tell us that we are the worst in the world. We did something, we started something and said yes, there was a time when there was such a thing. We want to go out and tell the truth. Give some bigger money and that'll be a satisfaction to them? Well, you say he won't. Of course these people won't be. Maybe some of them will find their child, and how would they be satisfactory to see their child for the first time in decades, would that be good for that child too? Nemanja Sarovic: It is up to them to decide, not on you. ) We do so in order for them to decide what is best for them and we are looking for the truth, only the truth, this law should be truth, courage, truth, to go out in front of parents and say – there were times when it happened, and there were those who didn't have the courage to come out before you and say there was that. Here, we're brave and we say there was and we need to match all those who did it and that's the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72404	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72405	Minister, when exactly did I say that I or someone from the Modern Serbia Party is the smartest and that we have the best proposal for a legal solution? Does anyone think they know this issue better than the parents who have been dealing with this problem for decades? (Marco Atlagic: Write a proposal then. ( b) Should we write a proposal? It's just a matter of work. Well, these people know it best and it's not true that no analysis has been done and that it's not wanted for better solutions, we'll talk about the details of it. Here, a member per member, an analysis done, and finally the conclusion that this is not worth fixing amendments, but that we should sit together and write a better bill together with all the interested parties in the process. No one blames this authority for proposing the law, or that the previous government did not propose the law, or that some previous, previous government allowed these crimes of child abduction from maternity and child trafficking to happen. No one blames this authority and cannot blame it, but the fact remains that parents' associations protested yesterday in front of the Assembly, that they came to Public Listening in the Assembly and said that the bill did not satisfy them. And the MP who votes in favour must be aware to vote against the position of any dissatisfied mother who believes that this law does not bring her satisfaction. That's how I see it. I don't think this is about bad intentions, I don't think it's about wanting to cover things up, I just don't think it's a good thing not all the interested parties have expressed satisfaction with the proposal, because if we can't reach a social consensus on this issue and the general agreement of all the interested parties, then it's not good for this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72406	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72407	Thank you. President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, the president of the Justice Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, today we have before us a law establishing the status of newborn children suspected of missing from the maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. It must have been one of the most difficult laws on the agenda of this congregation. This bill has caused a lot of controversy, but I am free to say both the delinquent and unprofessional interpretations of certain opposition politicians and this topic has been exploited years ago, and we have now been able to hear some criticism here by the opposition representative that the law has missed its purpose, they say - the aim of the law is only to compensate parents, they say - it's an illusion that something is being done, so they suggest that the law is withdrawn and that it is not voted for at all, and they have not proposed any amendments to make this law better, but only - do not vote for it. Since 2016, since they've been in the Assembly, they've never... This topic has been around for many long years. They just exploited it, and they never once submitted any bill that would be better than this and that would go into solving this difficult problem at all. The very name of the law clearly states what its primary goal is. Its primary goal is to determine the facts about the status of newborn children suspected of missing from the maternity home in the Republic of Serbia, based on evidence and data collected in the court procedure, from state authorities and other persons. The secondary objective of this law is the compensation of parents, not the main one. Don't turn it around. They do it here all the time from the opposition. I think it's very important and very good that the procedure, under this law, is brought before the High Court, which gives us the seriousness of this procedure. On the other hand, the judges of the higher court are very professional and experienced and will well conduct these proceedings and certainly their expertise and seriousness will contribute to making these proceedings, the results of these proceedings visible and effective. I believe that the Justice Department has done a good job with this law, because it has introduced four very important principles. The investigation principle, which implies that it is the court's duty to establish material truth in a specific case, also lays down facts which have not been laid down in the procedure and to determine the implementation of evidence which has not been proposed, which is not otherwise the case. Otherwise, the parties have to offer their own evidence. This is where the court itself may suggest the execution of certain evidence. The Court may also order that all the means of proof provided for in the law, such as insight, hearing of witnesses, craftsmanship, hearing of parties, etc. be carried out. It is important that this law provides that, in order to determine the material truth in the process, investigations in the proceedings, at the request of the court, are carried out by specially trained police officers. This law provides for the principle of urgency, which implies that the procedure itself is urgent and that all actions in the process are carried out without delay, which will contribute to the shorter duration of this procedure. This law provides for a principle of confidentiality, which implies that the public is excluded in the process and that all information the parties learnt in this procedure must be kept secret. The principle of mandatory hearing of all persons who have some knowledge of important facts for this procedure is also foreseen. I also find it very important that high fines are provided for witnesses and artists who eventually refuse to testify about the facts that are important for this process or for experts who refuse to deliver, or to make a finding, and not only that high fines are provided for it, but high fines for not acting within the deadlines are provided. Therefore, if the court orders that something be delivered within a certain period, and that party does not deliver it within the time limit prescribed by the court, it will be subject to a really high penalty. What is also important in this law is that the proposer of the initiation of this procedure is free from the payment of court fees and not only is he free from the payment of court fees, gentlemen, but he has the right to a free lawyer on the burden of the court. I think it's very important. Also, what I find extremely important in this law is the court's obligation that if, in the course of the proceedings, on the basis of facts, there is a suspicion that a certain criminal offence has been committed, the court is obliged to immediately file a report to the D.A.'s office. It is important to say that this procedure is conducted as an out-of-law procedure and that it is completely separate from any criminal proceedings and these two proceedings should not be mixed because they are essentially different. So the criminal procedure determines the responsibility of the person for the crime committed, and here we determine the facts that will lead to the truth about what happened. There's been a lot of controversy about the issue of antiquity of criminal prosecution. My colleagues have mentioned, I think it's very important that this mandatory instructions from the Court of Appeals in Novi Sad, which has been defined in fact that there is no statute of limitations in this crime, because it is considered not finished and this topic is closed, gentlemen. It was indeed, too, very, very exploited, the subject of the obsolescence of this crime. So these criminal proceedings are being conducted and will be able to continue, regardless of this law. We come up with a minor, side-by-side objective of this law, which refers to the payment of money to parents of missing babies. Unfortunately, here came the most negative criticisms and again I say, this has been quite exploited and represented as the basic objective of this law, which is absolutely not. So, once again, the compensation to parents is not the goal of this law, but it's just one obligation that we have to fulfil. On the other hand, it shows that, yes, the state admits that the rules are mistakes and in this way wants to help these parents in some way. What's important, and I have to point out as a member of the Justice Committee, the Justice Committee has proposed some amendments and I have them here with me. I think they're really good. The amendments concern that judges acting in the first and second stages of these proceedings will have to take special training for these proceedings at the Judicial Academy and I think that one is a very good proposal. Another amendment that I would like to point out concerns that the Citizens' Protector may also be the proponent of the initiation of this procedure. In the end, of course, DNA analysis, I think this is a good solution. I think it'll help in the process... DNA analysis is one of the most reliable ways of identifying the identity of the person and I think that this DNA analysis can only help in this process, and certainly parents can, as some of the opposition here try to play, say, they don't trust the state, so well, parents can run their own DNA analysis, and eventually compare the results, so this is an absolute nonsens that they're talking about from the opposition. I'm saying again, they're exploiting something completely unnecessary. I'll back this bill because we could have stuck our heads in the sand, like the others, but we didn't. We could have pushed this problem under the carpet, but we didn't, but we made this law the first big step towards determining the truth about missing babies. I will support it because this law has provided a good legal framework for implementing the fact-finding process that will help parents of missing babies determine what really happened to their children, to determine the truth. Finally, this law will also help to launch criminal proceedings against the responsible persons for these terrible acts. I see this law as a brave move by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to deal with problems that others have avoided to solve, and today they are criticising us. The move, which shows that this power, led by SNS and its President Aleksandar Vukic, is ready to put his head where its predecessors, or our predecessors, should not have put their hands on it, is certainly recognized by the citizens from the elections to the elections and I am sure they will recognize it in April 2020. I call upon everyone to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72408	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, I must say that I am surprised at the direction in which this debate is taking place and I am really surprised that MPs of the ruling coalition, above all, are criticising the opposition's MPs and I suppose the opposition is guilty again. It is her fault that she exists, that she disagrees with everything that comes and as a proposal from the ruling parties. Serbian citizens have waited decades for this law to be passed, as since the 1970s, these first cases of missing babies have been mentioned. However, the European Court of European Rights... So, the truth works, you keep talking-- someone else was supposed to bring it, so it could be such a law back to SFRY. The disappearance cases mainly refer to the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. Somewhere, after 2003, it is systematic, let me say, that some things have been changed so that these cases of disappearance do not happen afterwards, and the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has just obliged your authority in 2013 to pass the law that will solve this problem for the longest time in a year. Before that, no regime was required by the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg, which does not reduce their responsibility, but certainly your responsibility is much greater than it was in 2020. However, not your problem with the opposition MPs, the problem is I would say first of all the parenting association. You can say that the opposition is wrong, but let's convince the citizens of Serbia that these unhappy parents who have been searching for their children for decades, who are doubtful, who suffer, who may be worse off every day of life than death. For some, death may also be a blessing to come out of the suffering they have been in for decades. You're saying the opposition didn't give a single idea, didn't submit any amendments, and that's a lie. We have submitted amendments, and I will now give you ideas how this law could have been better done, not only by listening to few children-seeking parents, but above all what you would have done with the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg, and you are doing this law against that verdict. None of you have called that verdict, and I'll read it to you, here's just one section of that verdict. In fact, you are obliged to ensure the establishment of a mechanism aimed at ensuring individual compensation to all parents in a situation such as this woman to whom the verdict or in a situation similar enough. This mechanism should monitor an independent body with appropriate powers that will be able to provide reliable answers to the fate of each child and provide adequate compensation according to the case. Let me make this a little bit more disemboweling for you. You were under the obligation to provide for an independent body with the necessary powers. Where is that independent body in law? There's no body. So you are violating the European Court of Human Rights' decision. Second, that body should provide reliable answers regarding the fate of each child. Where's the law? There's no such thing. Thirdly, when it comes to compensation, you have here made a lie, a lie, a brutal lie, as you are limited by the amount that the European Court of Human Rights has ruled in this particular case, and by your judgment it is the opposite of the European Court of Human Rights that obliges you to provide compensation according to each individual case. And there's no such thing as law. There is no fair compensation if the amount of compensation is predetermined. As far as the law itself is concerned, Article 2 says: “The aim of this law is to determine the facts appropriate to establish the truth. ” It had to be said here that the law's goal is to determine the truth about each individual child, and you determine the facts that are appropriate to establish the truth. Article 2 states: "The aim of this law is to fulfil the obligation of the Republic of Serbia under the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case "Jovanovic v. Serbia", the number of performances 21794/09." How incompetent you are, says the fact that you are six years behind on the passing of this law to which you are bound by the court, and then you are unable to specify exactly the number of that representation under which it is filed. Instead of ‘08’ you bet ‘09’. And who, is that the opposition's fault? Is that why the parents of children to whom this law applies? In the light of the law, the financial means necessary for the application of the law. You're saying it takes 806 million dinars to pay fair compensation, immaterial damage. Who set this up and based on what? Secondly, much more importantly, you determine how much funding will be needed in 2018. A law which is prepared who knows when, shame upon you, you have no reason to hold it in a drawer for years, you have now brought it out for elections to say, “We have passed the law, so what is it, there is no matter what is wrong” and you have not been able to change even an explanation, to change the year to which the law applies. You say you have prescribed high sentences for those who do not respond to the court's call or do not deliver within the prescribed time limit a certain document. Right, fines are greater than 25,000 euros, but how is it possible if the punishment for an expert or a state body who is late in delivering a document is more than 25,000 euros, that the maximum penalty, the maximum compensation of material damage for a parent who lost a child and the state did not do anything to 10,000 euros? These are the questions you need to answer. The principle of confidentiality. You are bound by the court, which is normal, but also by the motion of the procedure to keep the confidentiality of the information he has learned during the proceedings. Sometimes the public is the only way to get their parents to the truth. If it hadn't been for public pressure, neither this law nor many others would have been passed, and you want to shut down the public. What, are you going to punish parents who can't get to the truth, so they turn to the public for help? Do you think you're going to scare someone into this pointless member of yours? Article 14. No one's ever bothered with this before. He says: “The procedure is initiated by submitting a proposal to the court. The proposal can be submitted by the parent of a newborn child if, until the day of entry into force of this law, it has been addressed to state authorities or maternity care in relation to the status of the newborn child, suspected of missing from the maternity home in the Republic of Serbia." What's the limit? Why exclude the possibility of anyone who suspects that his child has been kidnapped, anyone who has found and recognized himself in this situation, and whom will the adoption of this law awaken the hope that it can come to the truth? Why limit him to not be able to comply with this law to submit a proposal? If there is no domestic legal regulation, if you exclude it from this law, it will again address the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, you should understand. Article 2 says: “If no parent is alive, the procedure can be initiated by a brother, sister, grandfather, or grandmother of a missing newborn child, ” but why this restriction? Why are you, what if they're living parents, but they're, for example, incapacitated from their business ability, so why can't someone else, brothers, sisters, grandparents, start the procedure? Why don't you just in any case, even though they're living parents? Maybe parents aren't interested for any reason. Maybe they don't have the possibilities of material, intellectual, any other. Why should brothers and sisters not in any case have equal rights, for they too are being violated the right to family life? Why can't they be authorized drivers of this process? Then he says: “The proposal can be submitted to the court within six months of the day of entry into force of this law. ” Why, Mr. Minister, only within six months? Are you going to solve this? Will the courts be able to solve all the proceedings so explicitly in six months? He won't. Then why this restriction? For no reason, instead of searching for the truth, there are different completely groundless reasons. He says: “If facts cannot be determined, Article 21, which explains what happened to the missing child, the court finds that the status of the missing newborn child cannot be established, the court is obliged to determine which body, organisation or institution is responsible for the disappearance of the newborn child. ” What about individual responsibility? Responsible institution. What institution? Hospitals didn't steal children, individuals stole children, and they should respond. If there is an outdated criminal responsibility, so let them be in the court of shame, let them suffer moral responsibility, let them suffer the moral condemnation of the citizens of Serbia, let it be known what they did and who did it. Who would normally protect these people? It's really incomprehensible to me. All those who were in responsible positions, who had to know, all those who kept quiet, all those who did nothing to solve these cases much earlier than today, so they all have to answer. If not guilty, at least morally. When you say the previous government, more than the field of people sitting in power today was also in the previous government. In the judgment of this Court in Strasbourg, you have even the opinion of Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who in 2010 promised a quick solution to the case. Which ex are you talking about? You're talking about yourself absolutely. Finally, here I am, Article 23. - "The level of fair cash compensation is determined by the court’s free assessment". This is the first sentence and the first position, and then it says, "A fair, cash compensation cannot be settled in excess of 10,000 euros." Either it's a free judgment of the court and fair compensation or it's predetermined. If it's predetermined, as you're embarrassingly determining it, then you can't talk about a court's free assessment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72410	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72411	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, it is unfortunate that a colleague of this whole story of this law, a very difficult law, comes down to whether it is a law that corresponds to the position or opposition. We don't pass the law either because of the position or because of the opposition, because of the parents, because of the parents who lost their children, whose children disappeared in the previous period. What pleases me is that colleagues who have not appreciated the values of the EU are much called today in their speeches to the European Court in Strasbourg, but who should have read all the way to the end and come to the public hearing organised here in the Small Hall of the Republic of Serbia and heard what the authorised representative of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg said, Mr Sumberg, that he is in agreement with everything proposed in the law and that the law is required to be passed as soon as possible. Whoever wanted to read it couldn't give us a lecture here, but it's a good thing EU lawmakers are getting more and more supporters here. We talked a lot today about compensation. The objective of the law is not to make up for it. It's very ugly to make up for someone's pain, to make up for someone's suffering. Compensation is something that we owe to the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, and by our legislation, to define and put as the last member in this law. That's why one of the colleagues criticized, those who will, why they can apply, and that's why whoever wants to, he's going to apply for compensation, because the law's not about compensation. The goal is precisely what many here are criticising – that the investigative authorities, that the prosecution, that the courts of all those cases that are being launched and that will be launched, or the Supreme Court, bring to an end and try, and that the aim of this law and of all of us who are discussing the position on the side of this law is precisely that we allow all parents who suspect, who believe that their children have been kidnapped, to obtain documentation. Somewhere it's gonna be possible, somewhere it won't, that based on that file, it's gonna start some kind of dispute, and if someone's criminal responsibility is determined, it's a criminal match. Here I will say that once upon a time, as a young man, I have thought about – for God's sake, what these people talk about, and at that time, when I was born, in the '50s, '60s, '70s, many such cases were also parents, or mothers, above all, lived long with the feeling that they were missing something, something that is theirs, and something that is alive. No one had the strength, neither, nor the third power, nor all those who ruled before 2012 to face this problem and to open it. Why criticise someone who started something? It's very ugly to criticize someone who wants to work, so we should criticise him if he's not doing well, but help him, tell him with your good suggestions, with good amendments. Probably all those who have objections have given amendments to this law, to improve the law, to help those parents. It has been said here many times that parents' associations did not participate in the debate, in the public debate, in the public hearing. Many parents, many associations, participated. Some associations aren't, and we can never bring them together all who are interested in a particular topic to talk about, to think about something. I think this is the law, and most of the laws we make, advanced, that it's the law, not for the past, but for the future. What I'm going to mention today, and that's something that's very ugly, a campaign that's being run. Yesterday we had a press conference, it's not the same topic, we talked about disabled associations and what they're getting through the new law on gambling. There was no question at the press conference about the subject. All the questions were about compensation, 10 questions about compensation for people whose children were kidnapped or missing. Compensation, I repeat, is not the subject now. Compensation is the last thing in the bill. Surely in the voting day, most will vote in favour of this bill, and if there is any new knowledge in the law, in any case the ruling majority, the one who raised the question, and who I am sure will be in power behind these elections, will upgrade the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72412	The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72413	Mr. Bojanic, whether I'm right or you're, you know, someone can have some free confidence provided you don't read the facts. I read the parts of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg. I'll read it to you again. So it's not about what I'd like and criticizing you without a foundation. He says: “In view of the significant number of potential applicants, the applicant State must, within one year of the date on which this ruling becomes effective, in accordance with Article 44(2). The Convention shall take all appropriate measures, possibly through a Lex specialist, to ensure the establishment of a mechanism with a view to ensuring individual compensation to all parents in a situation such as this or which is sufficiently similar to that of the applicant.’ This mechanism should be monitored by an independent body. There's no independent body in the law. Is that true? Did I maybe skip a member? Second, “with appropriate powers that will be able to provide reliable answers regarding the fate of each child and to provide adequate compensation in any case. ” Intangible damage compensation cannot be determined in advance. Imagine the Law on Bond Relations and that someone prescribing the amount of damages. There's a lot of shame here that the government of the Republic of Serbia has been doing. Would you like me to read how you defended yourselves against certain arguments? For example, the government claimed that the facts refer to the time before 3 March 2004, which is the date when the Convention came into force in relation to Serbia, so it challenged the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights, but the court replied that this was a permanent situation, that the child's disappearance was not happening at the moment, that it lasted for years and that there was an obligation for the state to react. Look at one more, the most embarrassing maybe. He says: “The questionable foundation of the claim of the applicant ”... (President: Bring the end, colleague Sarovic. )......................................................................................................... I end up, "The government says - the government has stated that no violation of the rights of the applicant of the play cannot be attributed to the defendant state, since the alleged disappearance of her son has occurred in a medical institution rather than in a state body." Was it necessary for a woman to have a baby in the government or in the ministry for the state to be responsible? These are the miserable arguments made by the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72414	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72415	Thank you. I'll be very brief. The government formed a commission in 2016. For all those parents who did not exercise their rights, this bill is something that was required and I will repeat -- Mr Sumberg, representative of the European Court of Justice of Strasbourg, who attended, so let's read what was written there, in public hearing he agrees that the bill is in line with the European Court's ruling in Strasbourg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72416	You have no right to a colleague named Sarovic. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. ) Only a European court representative has been quoted. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, lovely Mihajlovska. He's not here. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72417	Thank you. The question of missing children is undoubtedly a difficult and painful issue that left a stain on us as a society because of a criminal group that was harassing children from mothers from maternity homes, parents, and that the prosecution and state institutions did not react at the time. Each one of these stories we've heard from the parents of missing children causes a storm of emotion in each of us and the irreparable pain facing and living parents of missing children. The first step in trying to solve this problem is just the proposed law on missing babies, a law that is not perfect and a law that has a lot of inadequacy, but which is necessary to start solving all circumstances and facts about missing babies. Parents' associations, NGOs, oppositions, part of the opposition, all the other participants had and still have a different view of this problem, although the debate and the creation of this law lasted for years, the question is whether in so long, we would reach full agreement on the proposed solution. But what needs to be said today in this high house is the fact that this problem has been pushed under the rug for decades, that the parents who have been searching for missing babies haven't spoken, that they haven't responded to their filed lawsuits. That is why I resent the opposition's representatives, the actions of the opposition for not solving this problem, for the benefit of children for political purposes, and for hiding in their statements and reactions behind a false boycott and for not having and not having any courage now, or expertise to face this problem. It is sad that in any way with this topic, individuals are racing to collect cheap political points using children, and what is now being taught by those who have been silent and who have sat with their hands hidden when they were to deal with this problem and these are facts, and that is why it is too much of a question for them, who are not here today and who are not taking their stand in this high house, but are hiding behind some statements or some occasional public appearances, so that is why the question is for them – what have you done? Unfortunately, they also manipulate sick children by drawing targets on our foreheads, and we passed Zoya's law, established a Fund for the Treatment of Sick Children abroad that is increasing by means every year. Is that money enough? Of course not, but every year it increases and allows our sick children to be treated. I think there's a big difference between those politicians and the MPs who want this problem solved and those who unfortunately use this topic to pick up some cheap political point. I trust Minister Stefanovic and Minister Nelli Kuburovic, who have pointed out that the draft of this law has led to the real opportunities and advice of the Council of Europe. The most important recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee were to extend DNA analysis to both parents living abroad and with another recommendation, which has been taken into account, taking into account the final verdict establishing facts regarding the child's death. It is these two members of the bill that the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers welcomed, assessing that they have the potential to increase the efficiency of the proceedings and lead to a credible response from parents. Because of Serbian citizens, I would like to say that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has several times responded to warnings so far, has prepared a very harsh resolution whose consequences would have been felt by Serbian citizens if we hadn't proposed this bill. So my opinion is that this bill of law is not a dead letter on paper, that it creates a basis for the problem to begin to solve itself, but clearly it takes great tenacity. I think Serbia today has mechanisms and strength and just that tenacity to deal with this problem. No one says this fight will be easy because in some cases it has been decades since a possible crime was committed, but it represents, as I said, a necessary and important step in solving this problem. Also, the fact is that no law that has entered the assembly procedure has been adopted in this form without amendments, which I believe are going to be accepted by some and many of them. I believe that in the debate in particular, this law will be corrected and that this will be the first step to correct injustice and crime without punishment that in any way pushes all of us and which was the basis and the motif to get to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72418	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72419	Thank you. What you have called the Bill of Law on the determination of the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia is not a law. This is so dilettantly done that it's just amazing. Such a relationship with this text, which you call the law, also has ministers who are trying to defend it and fellow MPs who are trying to defend it and your various analysts who are walking on television these days. This is actually legalizing child trafficking and talking on this subject and in this text with so much pathetic listening here today is really degutant. We are the People's Messengers. We are here to address the essential and key issues that are on the agenda through the draft laws and the debate on bill proposals. The problem of missing babies is a problem that's been happening for more than 20 years. Baby theft occurred long before that, but the topic was updated about 20 years ago. Now here we listen to some MPs – you do this the first time, no one before you. I am simply afraid that the Government does not propose a law on electricity to us, so that your MPs say – no matter what Tesla, we invented electricity. My people, let's get serious. You're making this law in a pre-election campaign, for two years it's been standing in drawers, so some MPs here say there are associations of parents who are looking for missing children who say this is a wonderful law. Is it possible that you are able to form such associations just to get some positive points. You have built such monstrous things into this law because of your entry into the EU, and you have fallen really low when you are ready to sacrifice once-born babies for the EU, today adults living in families that are not their natural families. So in 2005, dear colleagues, many 97.6% of you, as one man would say, were not concerned with politics at the time, did not know what politics was, did not know what the National Assembly was, but not because they were young, but for some other reasons. So, in 2005, the National Assembly formed the Survey Committee, the chairman of the Survey Committee was Dr. Živodarka Dacin, a member of the SRS in that committee was Dr. Miroslav Nedeljkovic. It was, of course, other people, but I'm saying this which, here, I want to point out in particular. What did the Survey Committee determine then? It's interesting that you didn't act on the findings of that survey board. And we're not saying that this survey board did a miracle, but, of course, a serious shift did. The survey board found that 99% of those parents who were looking for and looking for babies were never there for their supposedly dead children, and apparently living children, never saw them, never identified them, never buried them. That's what the members of the Committee of Auditors talked about. Miroslav Nedeljkovic held conferences several times and then informed the public, let's say that the Survey Committee then called various officials, well, officers, well, midwives, doctors, etc. And, imagine, the only one who didn't respond to the survey committee was then Police Minister Dragan Jocic. And the position and conclusion of the Survey Committee, one of the conclusions is, they established after their several-day order that the most serious problem in solving these situations was in the MUP and in the prosecution. At the time, 764 criminal charges existed. Now there are 3,000 of them. Of those 764 criminal charges, here you're all talking and the minister, not you but Stefanovic, you know, not selling babies, selling children, taking some 300,000 euros, putting it in a backpack and going to buy a hotel. No, these are living people. You can't say -- here's 10,000 euros and forget someone stole your child. This is really monstrous. So, since 764 criminal charges, more than half of them have been dropped, do you know why? For obsolescence. And you're telling us here there's no obsolescence in these cases. What's going to happen to half these items? My friend Arsic, I really don't know what's funny, all your guys were crying today when they talked about this, and you're laughing. And here I am speaking perfectly normal to distract the public and you that this has to be done much more seriously. So, the problem that the M.O.P., the inspectors of the M.E.P., and later the prosecution, did not address was the baby's path where the baby's trail from the baby's birthplace was lost, actually to the chapel, or to the cemetery. And says Minister Stefanovic today that it is now impossible, that it cannot happen. How is it impossible? And today, unfortunately, there are some parents who suspect that truly women have given birth to dead children. Because even today children are not allowed to be identified by their parents, to be buried. So, if there is, someone said that such only-born children who really die are treated like medical waste. That's really scary. Yeah, it's true, ask, it's a public secret. So they were unprofessional. I am now telling you what the conclusions were, among other things, of this committee of inquiry. Nebojsa Stefanovic held a conference in August and said a commission was formed mixed with representatives of different ministries, etc. and that her competence is to examine the conduct of the state authorities in lighting up reported missing children cases with the aim of eliminating and the last suspicion that exists in her parents. What has this commission done since August 2017? Did she solve one case? It's not. So, you form commissions, you pass laws, and the result is gone. The survey board found, you have in the archives of the Assembly, found evidence of 300 abducted babies. Why did the evidence of those 300 abducted babies not be taken into consideration and why they are being considered, I have been saying it not only to you now, but since then, because the work of the survey board ended when she saw then the authority what results had given the work of that committee. They just put it away. So you're not worse than them, but you could at least pull it out of the archives to see what's out there. Do you remember this one here, Jerkov, that in front of every session, she asked that there be no obsolescence when it comes to baby abduction or baby trafficking? Do you know what Maja Vidinović, her party friend, said that year? She then said that obsolescence is in accordance with the Constitution and the law and that the prosecution must respect it. So hypocritical to hypocrisy, but you're not able or simply superficially serious things do that hurt. Why didn't you have fun with it yourself? In 2014, the Republic Health Institution concluded that in one case there was no professional or administrative failure in the hospital in the case of the wife of Jolanka Kapoš from Boka and no evidence. Look, there was no administrative error. The child was not enrolled, so the child died on the other side, and the woman also claims to be alive. It's not the only case. Here everyone boasts about how many people they've talked to, who have babies gone missing. We've been talking to these people for decades, individually and with associations, and they have absolutely our support. And you say no one here has said what needs to be done, but we're criticizing the law. Here, I've told you everything now to start what needs to be done, and I'll tell you one key thing in the end. The survey board also concluded that they are dealing with special police units and report within three months to the National Assembly on what they have done. Since 2005, it's been so many years, never a special unit. So you could do this, here's to ignoring these before you, you could've done this for eight years if we had a report here ten times every three months from this special M.O.P. unit. So this all shows that you're not interested in solving the problem essentially. One more thing, two or three years ago, information appeared in public. I brought her out here myself. Word is, I'm not pointing a finger at anyone, but this is a serious indication that there is a woman in retirement, a gynecologist, living in Subotica, that she was one of the main organizers of baby trafficking from a maternity home in Serbia. Is it possible that in three years, so no gynecologist's wife retired in Subotica seven million, is it possible that not all such women, gynecologists in retirement, could be heard, questioned, so it might have occurred, maybe this is misinformation, and maybe it would be roof information that solves all the problems. Every day people looking for their babies show their fingers, that grandmother's name is so and so, that doctor's name is so and so, those strangers, come to buy a child, they're called that and so on, those rich people come to buy a child, they're called that and so on. That's what people know, that's what people say, but the authorities don't react. Now you've come up with, little smart-ass, here's 10,000 euros and forget someone stole your kid. And then, since this will apply, that provision will apply six months after the entry into force of this law, then along with this real torment of these people, you'll see some of whom have really died, and they'll say give me 10,000 euros because someone stole my child. So you're not good with the law. Pull him up. Don't court anyone. Let's take it seriously once to do a serious thing. This is life, this is a question of life, this hurts every normal man. Imagine, Minister, you say how your mother feels about the suspicion that a child has been taken from her, and imagine people who have dealt with the team and who have almost led to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72420	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72421	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs. Today, we pass a law that we want to solve problems before which everyone has closed their eyes for years. Established here in parliament since 2005, the poll committees have been giving their reports that we can see they haven't had any results. But, Mr. Minister, based on some exposure, I have to ask you, since you have experience with this subject. Are we here talking about legalising child trafficking, are we talking about sacrificing unborn babies because of EU entry and is that how this law can be discussed in Parliament today, in 2020? The problem of parents who are actors in this problem and children who may want to and may not want to know the truth date back to the time of SFRY, SRJ, when we were SCG today when we were the Republic of Serbia. So we're talking about changing four state systems, four states practically since it dates that problem. The institutions that have done the work they do today, and that some individuals have obviously done things in some organized way that have led many parents to lose their children and then, after a certain number of years of their wandering and proving it, and perhaps some of them have found their children. Those kids said they just didn't want to talk about it. We are talking today about something that is history in Serbia, and it has fallen under the responsibility of the SNS to try to solve the problem of these parents to find out the truth. Not only their truth individually, and this society should be interested in this truth because it is of great importance that such things should not be repeated, not in this country, but in any country. I will tell you that some developed EU countries like Ireland, like some other countries, have had the same problems. That is why the Court of Human Rights in the Council of Europe has done its verdicts according to certain models. Apparently, Mrs. Zorica Jovanovic in her extreme inability to find a solution to the truth has reached out to address the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It was many, many years before the SNS took responsibility for leading the state, so the verdict came at a time when we took over the leadership of this country in 2013. The verdict itself speaks of this mechanism of solving the problem of parents and their model of solving is that, make the law, solve the problems of all parents if you can do so in the best possible way, knowing that these problems are 30 and 40 years old and knowing that there are certain material benefits, because many of them will not find any evidence that they can prove to have happened to them. Manipulating the emotions of parents and children for political purposes is the highest degree of abuse that many political actors and individuals and parties who are not here today are working to discourage the interests of these parents from learning their truth. Today we pass a law to support parents’ knowledge of the truth. Whether he's good or bad, we have to start somewhere, we have to start solving these people's problems to open institutions, and only by legal means can you open up, obligate the representatives of the institutions to get material, evidence that will lead to litigation. On the other hand, we are forcing the courts to start running these processes in a highly efficient, professional way, that this investigation must not only go on by those who are directly affected by this law, but also by those who have inherited all these problems from entire families. That's why we've made suggestions, that unless they're parents or they're dead, their relatives, brothers, sisters can start these lawsuits. What can be seen is that the talks with NGOs lasted for a very long, more than two years and that almost all MPs here had the opportunity to talk to different associations of citizens dealing with this topic, and on the other hand we had even some colleagues and colleagues who were directly, whose families were affected by this problem. So, in direct contact, we could hear what it is that's holding them back somewhere, what's the point and what's the most important thing for them. The whole story of those who simply want to side with this law today is that we bring money to about 10,000 euros in compensation. We just don't want to put it in this law as the first thing we're talking about. That's the last link we're talking about today, that's when all the legal options are exhausted to pass any judgment. Yesterday it is at a press conference, you know when journalists want to get out of context exactly that part of the story, then they say – and why you find that the solution can't simply lead a judicial dispute, and in fact break out of Article 21 the whole position that says – if you can't determine the facts that explain what's happened to the missing newborn child, then the court can only conclude, means after the whole court procedure that has the right and the right to appeal and all the proceedings, when you've exhausted all the legal options, you're only then doing that solution that you're saying that there's simply no possibility that there's any way to establish the facts, or the truth, or prove it. Therefore, what is important to say is that this law has been fully defined in addition to what the commission has been doing in these two years, a commission at the level of the government of the Republic of Serbia, where the interior minister has indeed taken full responsibility, what then when the committees were surveyed did not even want to appear, today we have a minister of internal affairs who in the past two years had the courage to face, to have meetings with associations of parents, to talk to them individually about these problems, to collect requests, to see what number of otherwise parents the case is. Over a thousand demands and parents have signed that they want to simply open those court proceedings, and that commission opens the door to the institutions where they will find all the documentation. We had a chance to hear from our colleagues that there were double protocols, triple protocols in health institutions where children were born. Therefore, the possibility of you entering and establishing true documentation is actually the hardest job. This government has taken that responsibility to simply allow parents to find that file, because in court there is only relevant documentation, evidence. Based on the conduct of the proceedings, the courts and the MUP are the institutions responsible for implementing this law. Further, the principles of the procedure. We've heard that in principle, the most important part is the research, then the urgency of the process, which is most important that we don't wait a few months for years to schedule the hearings. Then, the part relating to the confidentiality of data, which is of great importance. It's very important for the court's own proceedings. This amendment, simply to which the Committee would like to give these judges one additional value, to be specialized in these proceedings, to pass a certain kind of training, shows only the desire of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to through this law give full support to the courts to do this work uninterruptedly and to support parents to really fight for their truth and their rights in court. Finally, what we have received from the Court of Justice of the Council of Europe is that experts of the Court of Human Rights will oversee the implementation of this law. This means that their experts will surely be in contact with the judges who will judge these proceedings and want to know how far we have arrived, as a society, in the launch of these proceedings and how much we have protected the rights of those parents who have this problem. So, at the end of this presentation, I want to say that we didn't want to be SNS, hide behind the upcoming elections, so let's say -- some of the next government, some of the next MPs will be making such difficult laws. We wanted to go out in front of the citizens of Serbia in the open and say: this is the first step that institutions that have not done their job take responsibility for this job and do what is in the interests of citizens and people who want justice and justice. So, I think it's really underprivileged that anyone attacks these solutions in ways that we talk about child trafficking, that we talk about the fact that for the sake of the EU we want to simply sacrifice anyone in any ugly way. In voting day, the SNS and I as an MP will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72422	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the name of this bill, which is before us after a decades of affair of one of the greatest crimes – stealing babies from the maternity home from their parents is at least hypocritical, not to use another term. We have also reacted as a serious parliamentary group. This shouldn't be called just baby theft law, but it should have the right connotation that it is, that it's an international trade for newborn babies. If that were the case, he also established the Survey Committee in many cases, which was discussed by Radeta, a colleague in 2005, but also later the Working Group, in 2010, who was in charge of making a law that would shed light on all the circumstances under which such monstrous crimes took place. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic was president of the National Assembly, today, after 10 years, the minister and it is truly hypocritical that she today says that this law will allow parents who suspect their stolen babies to shed light on their fate. What's been done since then? Here, here sits Mr. Cosic, he can't speak, Mr. Minister, so you try to talk to him, so he tells you if he's still in his position. He's the assistant minister of justice. In 2010, Mr Ćosic participated in the work of this Working Group in front of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and Minister. He said there was absolute obsolescence and that no one could be prosecuted if it was found that a child had been stolen. Does Mr. Ćosic still have such an opinion, given that today Nebojsa Stefanovic said that they found it, I will try to quote it, but I will paraphrase it anyway – we have found the possibility that the perpetrators, if the theft of the baby is determined in a particular case, are being prosecuted because it is still a work that is going on, since the child is missing? I really don't know where you were learning, do you see the "Sava Center" on that plateau or in front of this "Combank Hall" Constitution and the Criminal Code of this country? I believe that Mr. Ćosic, as a responsible man, will continue to remain in this position from 2010, because the Criminal Code has been changed, but not in the part where general obsolescence occurs and not in the part where it is interpreted when a crime has been committed and when a crime has been committed. So don't lie to poor people, parents who have been looking for the truth for years for their children. You are only after being warned by the EU and your mentors have approached the draft of this law. In fact, it is such that Mrs Zorica Jovanovic, who herself launched her case in front of the European Court of Human Rights, was the moment she was called by the Ministry of Serbia, or the representative of our country in the Strasbourg Court, who wanted to crash in front of the phone when she was told she needed to be paid equivalent to 10,000, because it was found that her child had disappeared. Now, what your parents are about to get, possibly, is that amount of compensation you're showing as an epochal part of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't that monstrous? You're not going to be in a situation, obviously, only if you change the Criminal Code, but, you know, it's simply impossible because of all these provisions to prosecute that perpetrator, and you throw dust in those parents' eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72424	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72425	You know, Mr. Arsic, you have to have a little hearing, first of all as a man and as a parent, when we talk about a subject like this, let me finish my sentence. In the middle of my sentence, you interrupt me, but it speaks of you and your culture. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72426	My colleague Jovanovic, I understand that you are nervous. I understand you're nervous about the near choice, that's your problem. We have a Rules of Procedure. (Natasa Jovanovic: I didn't ask you anything.) Enough, I don't want to listen to you. You don't need to insult me and tell me I don't have a gram of brains. (Natasa Jovanovic: I've known you for twenty years, please shut up. ) You have no need then, I did not interfere with your discussion, I did not say that you had no idea what you were talking about, so I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and allow me to hold a session as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72427	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's hard to talk about this very important law today after the honourable MPs have finished. What matters, which is that this law should have been passed even during the party of the former regime, and has not been passed for only these known reasons. Secondly, this topic does not need to be handled from a daily political aspect, and it is those people's MPs who have said this today, these words in the House of Commons, are not now in the National Assembly, who have left, and they have just tried to approach this topic from a daily political point of view. It's about Vladimir Djuric and Mrs. Macura. As the minister noted, I have a feeling that they didn't even read the law and that's why they suggested that the law should be withdrawn. However, according to my court, the law should be passed and in its application it will show whether certain provisions should be amended or not. What I have the impression of these months, and not to mention years, is that some NGOs are slightly abused by this extremely sensitive problem, so they are proposing that the law be withdrawn, so that further on this sensitive problem, the chaos that is going on, as we can see, for a few dozen years. The purpose of this law is, we all agreed today, to determine the truth. Of course, this law prescribes a special procedure to determine the status of newborn children suspected of missing in maternity homes in the Republic of Serbia. The jurisdiction of the national authorities is determined, which is very important, in the process, but at the same time, fair compensation is determined, if found, that the right to the family life of the newborn parent has been violated. It is good, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, which is the answer to the main objections of this law by the Association of Parents, although they are honourable Members of Parliament, and there are neither Vladimir Djuric nor Mrs Macura, claimed that this was not done. It was done, as you saw, to give answers to objections. Unfortunately, our political opponents, those of the Alliance for Serbia, are not in this high House today, at this session of the National Assembly to discuss this problem. This speaks of their relationship with this issue that we are discussing and they did not feel that this law was put on the agenda of the National Assembly when they could. During this time, they have been wandering around the cities of the Republic of Serbia and abroad and accusing their country, for example, recently in Brussels, those of the Alliance for Serbia, headed by Dragan Djilas, known as the Điki Mafia, Zelenovic and Nikolic, and have accused Serbia of being a country that has been dramatically backward since 2012, since SNS came to power. They also sent a letter to Brussels, which I quote -- Serbia has experienced a dramatic setback since the rise of the SNS and its arrival in power in 2012. It's a finished quote. Just now, you can see that the truth is reversed, that Serbia has just, since the SNS came to power, experienced a reformal rebirth in economic, social and other areas. It is Gilasov and those from the Alliance for Serbia, a relationship to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but a relationship to the state of Serbia. It's very important for respected citizens to see how they treat you and the country as a whole. Such accusations of a monstrosity can only be made by one who is operated on by a minimum of patriotic feelings and responsibilities towards his country. Nothing better is their chief Alliance for Serbia leader, Bosko Obradovic. I'm gonna take some time so we can figure out what he said yesterday, see what kind of man it is. This is the Bosko Obradović who carried out, as you remember, to remind you of the honourable MPs, and also you citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who had entered the RIK and attacked the members of RIK, that is the one who broke into the municipality of Pecinca, that is the one who attacked the President of the Administrative Committee of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Aleksandr Martinović, that is the one who broke into the cabinet of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, that is the one who broke into the police station in Guca, that is the one who attacked the journalist “Pinka”, that is the one who tried to break into REM, that is the one who sought to shoot the President of the Republic, Aleksandra Vukic, and the President of the Government Ana Brnabić, who tried to invade the capital of the Republic of Serbia, the one who tried to commits to commit to make it to the war with the President of Serbia. It's a finished quote. This would not even be said by the greatest enemies of the Republic of Serbia. This is the one who brought a stone into this high House of the People's Republic of Serbia in October 2017, which he said was a KIM stone that humiliated all Serbs from KIM, and it was not, it was a stone from Stara Pazova or from India, it was later found. This is the one who tried to break into the Belgrade City Assembly building in March 2019, which was the one who in 2017, raided the RTS and wanted to join the programme, which was the one who in March 2019, along with Djilas and Jeremic, to tear down the fence in front of the Serbian presidency, which was the one Bosko Obradovic, who opened the door to the Serbian flag and spear in December 2019, and wanted to enter the same assembly. That's the one who broke into the National Assembly on the 27th of December 2019 and attacked Dr. Martinovic, and he wanted to cause chaos in this high house. This is the one who called Mr. Micunovic, a communist and false patriot, and he answered him – I am not interested in political hooligan Bosko Obradovic, who is trying to introduce tabloid prostitution into our political life. Why was I saying all this? Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs, to see what kind of man it is, and best characterized by him yesterday 26.12.2020, Goran Jesic, who told Zoran Lutovac when he accused the government of campaigning against migrants, quote - and perhaps all of this has something to do with one fool, Bosko Obradovic, who is lurking around Serbia with a painted well and spreading fear, spreading lies and lying like a dog and making political campaign out of unhappy people. Here's the front of his outburst. I've led you to see how his colleague, Goran Jesic, characterized him, quote him, as a fool. Here, they appear in the media and the creators of a monstrosity film about Alexander Vukic, which aims at how you saw his personality demonized and everything that was done in this country, under the authority of Alexander Vukic. I've analyzed the personality, author and actor of President Vukic's statement on the film, and let me tell you that I'm not just a historian by profession, but also a pedagogogogogist, who took a few psychology exams and I have several papers in psychology. It is people Ljubodrag Stojadinović, Vesni Mališić, Branka Prpa, Misa Brkić, Biljana Stepanovic, Zoran Gavrilović, Zarko Trebesanin, Slavisa Lekić and Mr Popadić. Only two individuals per two sentences, Vesna Mališić, respected citizens, if you follow her texts, is sidetracked by everything that is Serbian and state. So in 1.12.2019, in "The Insulation of the Week", she said, you will not believe that she said this, but check it out -- that Serbia is a madhouse, and that citizens, most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are crazy. It's a finished quote. In the show, the president of the Association of Journalists of Serbia recommended her leave the journalist's profession. If she said that for the citizens that they were crazy, and for the state of Serbia that it was crazy, then you couldn't expect anything in this movie to say positively about Alexander Vukic. The second person I've analyzed, in a few sentences, is dr. Branka Prpa. Believe it or not, but I received an official response, as director of the National Historical Archives in Belgrade, formed a commission in 2004, which destroyed the documentation of Predrag Gojkovic's alleged suicide, which we often discussed here, in the apartment of Sasa Jankovic, called Salet prangija, in 1993 and thus committed a crime towards the historic building of permanent value. Therefore, don't be surprised that the most disgusting lies about Alexander Vukic, in this film, are being lied to. She fell so low, that moral gromada, Dr. Branko Prpar, that she accused Alexander Vukic of what he would never do to anyone. Her accusations, this is important for you to understand, are intended to cloud and conceal her true role in why she accuses Alexander Vukic. Now, that's true. The second, Slavis Lekic, a signing member of the 88 group, who accused the Republic of Serbia of destabilisation in Montenegro. I don't want to talk about him because you know him very well. He is one of the signatories of this appeal who accused the Republic of Serbia. Let me just say the two personalities that found themselves here. It's Latina Perović, Stjepan Mesic, Milan Kucan, and I'm still not talking about it, because we've already talked about it here. So he's got everything that's Serbian and what's advanced in this country. The common feature of all these actors in the film "The Ruler" is, in my court, here I was dealing as a man let's say professions, first that these people are extremely destructive and express only destruction in their performances. Second, those with prominent traits of humiliation and demeaning are especially if you give them money to demean. Thirdly, if they're people, the lines of their faces tell them. Fourthly, that these are persons with marked mental disabilities, so it is necessary, in my opinion, for two psychologists to deal with their mental shortcomings in order to reduce and address certain shortcomings. Unlike them and these mercenaries who paid for this film, Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian statesman, a major Serbian reformer and above all a great Serbian patriot and patriot who will never, ever, ever do anything to harm the Serb people and national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. The Honorable President, in voting day, as well as the rest of my colleagues from the SNS, of course we will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72428	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the laws we're discussing today is a very sensitive topic. I am surprised by some fellow Members of the people, which in this debate do not find a measure that corresponds to what the lawmaker, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, wants to achieve and what we want as MPs who want to support this bill. There seems to be a good intention here and a well written, a mockery. I have to say it like that, whether any objections are justified or not, we can't play with some things. This is about a law that will change some of our citizens' lives. So, we're not discussing whether there were kidnapped or missing babies anymore, that's not the point. The theme of this law is to determine in each individual case whether a baby has disappeared and as a consequence of such a solution, the competent court, to initiate some other proceedings. There are no stories here or around the EU, although some of them wanted to transfer it to this field, so some of them say, "Here you are, but you are doing it wrong; others -- why do you run, don't want to go to the EU, etc." Put some things in place. I listened to my fellow MPs say - why the public is excluded from this process. It's not off. I have to ask that same colleague who said that. Would he like the papers to know that he wasn't the child of his parents he thought they were? Would you like to know from the papers? Let him put himself in the place of these people, and then let him criticise some provisions or stop talking nonsense for cheap political points. Is this a topic that has been... It seems to me different intensity has been back all these years. At some point it was put under the carpet, at some point it was getting some dimensions, I can't say anything that wasn't deserved, but unexpected at some point. We've had these survey committees, we've had commissions, we've had everything and everything, and now for the first time we have something that regulates the law and obligations of the competent authorities to enforce the law. It's the courts. And when someone says if there's an independent body? What are you going to do more independent than the court? With special powers, we give the court and special authority to this law, and in addition to all those powers that the court has. I don't know if there's any more independent bodies, one National Assembly. It doesn't exist. You know, when we want to twist a mockery, then we grab on to some of those little things, and then we discuss and bid on the amount of cash compensation and so on, who needs to take it, who answered what. People, the failure was made by some at that time, and these were some public institutions where the founder was a state, were not state authorities but were working on the basis of the powers that were then given to them by law for these powers and the exercise of these powers was guaranteed by the state, of course, although now this authority is not guilty of anything but because of some continuity and seriousness of the state must compensate those citizens. We can bid on many things, whether something should have happened or not, but don't deal with it, or as some colleagues have said, this is a law that we're going to pay for the harm of the parents of missing babies and that this is where it all ends. No, I don't. Why don't you say it all starts then, because if the court finds that the baby is missing or kidnapped, the prosecutor can't shut up and say no crime. He can't. Now he has to initiate a trial and a prosecution investigation to determine every single person's responsibility for what happened to that baby, and if it's possible to find out where that baby is, or is already a grown man. Working under this law is just the first step. Now we can talk about whether or not she was out of date, about the deadlines, and I've been listening to this nonsense, absolutely out of date. It can't go on forever. It can't be, because the consequences are still going on. What are the consequences? Now, let this missing baby, now an adult man submits a request to any state authority, any state, for any correction, whether a passport, ID card, anything else, interrupts all deadlines and starts all over again. The problem will be in the part where the prosecutor, simply because of the flow of time, and it can't be responsible for both SNS and Alexander Vukic, and the biological consequences such as natural causes, has no one to prosecute, but still until he finds out and those facts have to lead some kind of criminal procedure. You know, we can talk about a lot of these things, but no one can convince me that the protocols that were then in hospitals and maternity wards, that they were destroyed, that they were missing, that they didn't know who was on call that night, that she was a midwife, a nurse, a medical technician, and so on. All these data protocols still exist today. Well, the prosecutor can't just say that - I don't know who. Well, even the damaged know who the doctors were. So, the goal is just to, well, attack something to attack, and that these are the desire to score political points for SNS and Alexander Vukic in front of the upcoming elections. Just one thing to say, this law is addressed to the National Assembly in March 2018. Which was not on the agenda, lies on each of us MPs part of the responsibility. The fellow MPs who attacked it why are we now discussing this law, after two years, while he is in the National Assembly, not in the drawer, every MP has received a bill, I have to ask the question - why did you propose additions to the agenda and in these additions to the agenda only ask that the laws that you have written or members of your parliamentary group be found on the agenda? Why didn't you suggest that this law be on the agenda? Now where'd you get that ex-sense? Who the hell is that? Who are you talking to? To us? ) So now I'm asking this question to those of the former regime, and everyone who asked for the additions to the agenda, so they say, well, after two years, you took the law out of the drawer. Well, we didn't take it out of the drawer, he's at the debate today because the MPs and the government of the Republic of Serbia asked to be on the agenda. I ask fellow MPs who claim that we had kept this law from them for two years, and they had it in their hands and they cared so much about missing babies and their parents that they never once asked for the bill to be found on the agenda of the National Assembly. Well, that's hypocrisy. It's hypocrisy. The government did their part of the job. It's part of our responsibility for not being voted before, but you can't transfer everything to just one without accepting part of the responsibility. That's exactly the problem, which is what we want to accept responsibility for everything that we've done and for some of the consequences that people suffer with, and with which we have nothing to do with it. And, I agree, once the court's work begins under this law, archives will also be opened for the committee of inquiry and for the testimony of various damaged parents whose babies have disappeared or been kidnapped. There will be criminal proceedings against those responsible in medical institutions, and the right to tell you, I'm only sorry that we can't change the Criminal Code, that the persons who kidnapped some children are sentenced to 40 years or to life imprisonment without parole, as well as to rapists. The reason is simple - human greed can never be punished enough by law when ruining a young life that has not yet walked in the right sense of words in its future. I ask the question, when all this is over and some proceedings are over and the truth is out, when parents finally meet their children, I know that parents will be happy anyway. She'll be happy and those kids, but how much it'll affect their lives and how much it'll change... How do you know they'll be happy? I guess a man is happy to find his real parents and I guess a man is happy to find his child after decades. I ask the question - how much will it affect their lives, how much will it change it, and is there any possibility that those responsible for its separation from its biological parents can be punished by the law we prescribe?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72430	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72431	I recognized myself in my colleague Arsic's comment. I'm surprised that a colleague, although the law is in a drawer for two years, failed and failed to read it because he didn't say a single sentence about the law. He talked about some of his observations, what would happen if he did, but about what the law says, not a single sentence. Of course the law was in the drawer. Well, he wasn't hanging out on an offer, was he? In a drawer for two years. The fact is that you're cleaning drawers now, that we have a agenda within one point, I don't know, 20, 30 points of the agenda. So that democracy attack kept you short. You're back to the way it was. You have on the agenda within the same point of the Law on the Army and the Law on Games on Happiness. It's really amazing. A colleague Arsic says - why we did not submit a bill regarding these missing babies, or kidnapped babies, or sell babies. Well, we've submitted various bill proposals, among other things we've proposed to change the Family Law, to ban the adoption of children by foreigners, and that could have been, say, the start in solving and this problem, because many of the children that parents are now looking for are now selling to foreigners, rich foreigners. Comrade Arsic, ladies and gentlemen, folks, we Serbian radicals have submitted a proposal for a new Law on Executive Procedure and Security, and with this proposal we have attached more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens and you have no idea how to put it on the agenda and then ask us why we have not filed a law like this and you are talking about a hypocrite? If it's from you, it's too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72432	MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72433	If on my discussion, the only thing that can be directed is an insult to the fact that I haven't read the law, that he's been in a drawer for two years... When someone says there's something in the drawer, it means he's hiding. No law that enters the National Assembly as a bill cannot be hidden, and every MP receives it no later than the day after the National Assembly received the bill. The bill was sent to the National Assembly on 20 March 2018. Another thing, don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. I didn't say why you didn't write the new law. I'm just asking a question if you were so interested in finding this as a topic on the agenda of the National Assembly, why didn't you ask when setting the agenda for this law to be included in the agenda? That's what I asked. You shouldn't have written a new law. I totally understand, if the desire for a replica was to talk about the law of execution and security, it's your right in the replica, but don't, please, put in my mouth what I didn't say and twist my words. Really, it doesn't lead anywhere. The citizens only saw a few minutes ago what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72434	The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72435	It's not exactly like my colleague Arsic says. If we asked to put this bill on the agenda, we wouldn't have thought of it. I wish you hadn't put him on the agenda today, because this law doesn't solve a problem that has been evident, which has existed in Serbia for decades. We also said when we talked before, we don't accuse you of anything that happened 20, 30 and 50 years ago, but we've turned your attention that this law will not solve the problem. We won't solve the problem. The problem is this whole society. What is our relationship to this bill and to this “fiction ” where the law is hiding? Well, the law has been in the procedure since 20 March 2018, and we've had amendments on 29 June 2018. What did you keep our amendments in the drawer? Why didn't you come out with the proposal and the amendments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72436	First the law, then the amendment to the law. That's how the procedure works. Does Zvonimir Djokic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72437	Thank you, Your Honor. When I hear stories about the committees of inquiry that were formed in the previous period in this congregation and who had to deal with the problems accumulated in the past, it immediately associated me with a short joke. I have to tell you, it's short, one sentence. It reads this way: “Let him, let him, but let him steal all these millions and let him rob the people, but when we give him a party warning, he will smoke. ” Now, that's the outcome, and that's the result of all the survey committees and all the conclusions they've made. No problem solved, they were just pushed under the carpet. So much for these committees of inquiry and how to solve problems through survey committees. The disappearance and theft of babies or baby trafficking is not our problem, it's not a Serbian problem, it's not just with these spaces, it's not our invention, disappearance and theft and baby trafficking is an international problem. It has happened and has been known since ancient times, and it is a phenomenon in many countries and many parts of the world. Of course, our most famous cases are from these areas, unfortunately from Serbia and all other republics of the former SFRY, but they were also in all Eastern European countries. They were also in Spain during Frank’s regime, in Argentina during the military junta, in Ireland where the Catholic Church separated children from mothers whom they estimated to be unfit for some reason to be mothers. So it's not our invention. There have been cases in Greece, France, Italy, Portugal, Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia and around the world. And this power, today's government led by the SNS, would be perhaps worse than any previous government if it weren't able to deal with the problems, as we were able and as we decided to face the problem, let's say, unpaid differences in military pensions, as we were brave to face the problem of resolving housing issues of members of security forces or ultimately, here these days to solve the status of fighters, wartime disableds, members of their families, etc., we are able to tackle this problem as well. We know that no law is ideal, we know that with this law we won't solve all the problems. This law is a compromise between our wishes and our possibilities. There's a lot of parenting associations whose kids are missing, they all have their own demands, they agree somewhere, but they don't agree with me anywhere. In the preparation of this law all these wishes, all these suggestions were considered, all thought was given. First of all, as an initial platform, it was the European Court of Human Rights' decision that made that famous verdict that I'm not going to talk about right now and based on which we started. Certainly, our goal was to resolve the status of these missing babies, to give parents as many satisfactory answers as possible, to realize that we will not be able to do whatever the law is, to fulfill their ultimate desires, which is to meet their missing children. I support this bill for a number of reasons, I won't be able to list them all, but among other things, I think the law is fair because it provides the possibility for all parents of missing babies, missing children, to launch as legislators of the procedure provided for by this law. The solution to this process may not satisfy everything, i.e. that end result, because there are more possibilities, outcomes, such a process. One possibility is that the proposal is rejected if it is found that the baby is not missing, theoretically possible. The second option is to adopt the proposal and determine the status of the missing person, i.e. babies and that in the following ways. For example, to determine the facts about the death of a child, if it is possible to prove that there really was a death. Then, to determine the facts that prove what happened to the missing child and to establish in accordance with the European Court's ruling which institution is responsible for the missing child. The third option or fourth option, which is already in line, to adopt the proposal but to realize that it is not possible to determine the status of the missing child, because perhaps direct participants in the whole event may not be alive. It's been many years, in many cases decades. There is no documentation, etc. However, in such cases, this law provides as much as possible, to say, the compensation suffered, it is difficult to say, but the pain suffered, or in some way to suggest that the compensation provided by the European Court of Justice to a height of 10,000 euros, because it found that parental law was disabled, i.e. as he says, because the right to family life has been violated. That's certainly not adequate compensation. The question is how much this country has the opportunity and the resources and the strength to deal with all these problems. Many associations of parents of missing babies made other suggestions. There were good proposals, but they were not adequate economic power and the strength of this country. If we were ten times stronger and more powerful, etc., all the problems would be solved differently. This law, I say, is therefore a compromise between our possibilities and our wishes. We would prefer parents to find their children or at least establish the status of those children and do our best to do so. I certainly support this bill, I think it's good. Maybe we'll make some minor changes over the amendment and fix all that. Perhaps in some future period, taught experiences, we will come into a situation in the future and fix this law, i.e. to bring something new into it, but for now, I think it's good, and I suggest to all the MPs that we accept it. Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72438	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72439	Mrs. Gojkovic, allow me to advertise Articles 159 and 157. Rules of Procedure, since we are at the end of the debate on this bill. I, just as it was directed to you and all the parliamentary groups, have just spoken with Mr. Radis Pavlovic. He's a member of the Government Commission to determine the abduction of babies. These data that the Commission has come up with in its work have been frantic. It is necessary to withdraw this proposal at the same time that the proposer is empowered, if you are Mr. Djordjevic, because this bill cannot be established, or in an adequate way, to enable the establishment of all individual cases, and therefore, Mrs. Gojkovic, to tell you as the responsible person, the president of the National Assembly, that in this country the biggest problem is actually in the Prosecutor's Office. The deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, according to Mr Pavlovic, Mrs Jasmina Kiurski, who is Deputy Zagorki Dolovac, who disappeared from the face of the Earth, apparently deliberately covered up investigations. Mr. Pavlovic himself is a man who knows he's two children, that his twins were kidnapped in 1988. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last year, personally, as a member of the Government Commission, in the presence of some more parents in the freezers in the King's video of 13 babies in one freezer only.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72440	MPs, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is not explained in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72441	Allow me, I may have abused it, but since the debate is over...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72442	Not yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72443	Okay, but it's getting closer. At any moment, the promoter can withdraw the law from the procedure and I ask you if you are authorized for these and for any other reason on the proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72444	Thanks, we're way out of time. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the injury would have to be done in order to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72445	Dear colleagues and colleagues, they come to life for a time where we have to make very difficult and fatal decisions and, of course, it's not easy. In order for it to be easy not to happen to us, some of us would have been able to end it long before we were able to end it and to take the pain off all these families, from Serbia and all of us today who have been involved in solving this problem that has existed for decades. Is it easy to solve this problem? Of course not, and that's where we all agree. Each one of us sees some kind of pain, the trouble of the people that have been hit by this accident. When God created the earth and put man and woman on earth, he also gave them a legacy, a mission to continue the species, that is, by giving birth to new generations that will develop this land. Then the woman who gives birth instilled that love for the newborn child that lasts in women much stronger and longer than with us men. How can someone measure the torment and suffering of all those people who have suffered this evil, and I don't know what to call it, to steal their child, to sell that child, to make them the most torment I don't know if there's any greater pain? A few days ago, Arsic said that he would like someone to tell him how those children feel when after 10, 20, it doesn't matter how many years they find their real biological parents. I have a colleague who's a university professor, a top intellectual, who has this kind of trouble. Her twin sister was stolen, come on, the wife is, let's not talk about her age, but after a few dozen years she managed to find that sister. She's got a big dilemma ahead of her. How do you tell that woman she's not who she is? For 30 years, she lived in one family, had a happy life, a successful career, and now, all of a sudden, if she told her everything, she'd be ruined. What, in my opinion, is the biggest pain? Destiny or God has decreed that a man dies once, and what is the case with parents, with these children, with aunts, uncles, aunts, and all those involved in these cases? How many times do they die? First, right after birth they die because someone buried them, stole their identity and sent them to the other side, to other people to be their parents. Then, they have a life that can be less or more successful, have a past of their own, and then one day someone finds out that they're not who they are and then they die. It's not that easy 10, 20 or 30 years just to erase. After all, he will die once again when their biological life ends here on Earth. What can we do now? I think it would be good to follow the bishop Nikola Velimirovic who says – there are no people who do not know much, nor those who know enough, or enough. Let us be wise and follow this wisdom of his and let us say to ourselves: you are not the smartest, you are not the best in the world, nor are you the individuals who can say to themselves that they know enough. Let's include reason, be calm and try in a civilized, dignified way to solve problems that are really very difficult. It won't be worth it to anyone, not to those parents, not to those kids, not to either side, not to the other side, if we argue here and argue with each other, but to someone who said this or that. We need to be smart and wise here. I'm also telling these parents they have to be unique. What does that mean with the Serbs 10 associations, then they attack each other, then they speak against each other. It is a people problem that is not Serbian, according to Djokic, it is an international problem, but let's not let ourselves be dragged into it. What's been done so far can't be changed, but for the future, let's never let anyone steal another child in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72446	Thank you. The word has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72447	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are monitoring this television broadcast, there is one Chinese proverb that says that all the flowers of the future are in the seed of the present. So everything we do today will have some of its fruits in the future. The way we treat today, the way we treat our children, the way we'll have a future. That is the future for those who have dared to take away the most valuable thing from their parents. And I'm the parent of two daughters myself, and I followed this debate today, and I heard our colleagues, and I know those who had, unfortunately, it's hard enough to find a hard enough word, a sad enough word that describes the fate of those people to whom someone took the child, stole the baby at birth, to satisfy their petty own financial interest, to fill himself with some selfishness, to satisfy himself in any way, so I dared to do it by taking someone's child, to take something that was most valuable. Why no one before us? Why has no previous SNS, led by President Vukic, decided to launch this topic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this way? Why didn't anyone before the SNS and her president decide to put this on the agenda? Why hasn't anyone ever done this before? Why don't all those who have come to this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for over a year in which they receive salaries from the budget... Why did none of them care so much about children, about the future of this country, start such a debate, but say it's a pre-election trick? We have a trap here. It's no pre-election trick. It is a sincere desire to once establish who has stolen the country's life for decades back in this country. You didn't just kill your family or kill your mother and father by taking your child. You killed the land by stealing that land, which you took from it, so in the end, when you had nothing to take from it, you took from the children's families. That's the bad guy in the worst sense of the word. Unfortunately, for decades, that son of a bitch had been out there taking kids for decades, taking money for those kids, howling into black families just to fill their pockets with money, and that's the dirtiest money possible. Today we started this topic out of a sincere desire to once put an end to the terrible things that were happening. We as responsible people, as politicians seeking support from citizens, who talk to citizens, who live with citizens, and we ourselves are citizens, have a duty to our country and our neighbours. Someone has a neighbor who's lost a child that way. We have a duty to take action towards our country and do everything we can to make sure that there is a legislative framework within which to examine what happened to the missing children, where they ended up, who took the money for it. Why hasn't anyone put this on the agenda before? What's behind all this? Who were the members of different regimes hiding before this so they didn't want it to come to the agenda? What are their members and friends or relatives really involved in all of this, and not only when babies are missing, but when it comes to the destruction of millions of people who have been leaving Serbia for decades? So now they complain, they say, "Our children have gone away." Well, those kids, they stole the same ones, they stole their future by stealing money from the citizens, so they drove those kids out of here. They said children, leave Serbia, you do not need this country. By establishing stability in the country, by opening jobs, building roads, bridges, opening up a country for investment, by contributing to more children than before in Serbia today, to children wanting to live here, to trust their country, to trust their country, to trust their institutions, to trust their President of the Republic. It wasn't like that before. Part of the opposition rides on that, on people's misfortune, because when there's no accident, there's no topic. As long as there's an accident, as long as there's one unfortunate man, it's a subject for them, but there's no suggestion that this accident can be solved. There's no suggestion on how to wipe out the tears of that mother who was kidnapped by a child. That grief can never be erased. None of us can make up for any money, of course, nor do we have any illusions of making up for anything with any amount of money. Every normal parent says that the life and happiness of his child don't have a price, but you just have to give people some kind of satisfaction. The best thing is when we see the first case of that villain who stole and one child to match it, it's gonna be a satisfaction to those people who lost their children. It's going to be a real indicator that we've done a great thing here today, that we haven't told an empty story by, again, the works of the opposition that doesn't sit here, that there's something marketing, politics and I don't know what. Children's lives are not marketing and politics. Unfortunately, for some, it is. For some, it all comes down to politics, tricks, marketing, fogging, so it's election and passing. That's how these next elections will go, until they realize what's most important for the country, and these are children, to provide them with a safe, peaceful, stable and predictable future. For these very reasons, the German philosopher Nomalis said that where the children are there is a golden age. I believe that the more children in Serbia, the closer they are to Serbia's golden age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72448	Thank you. Does anyone want to use time per article 96? Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72449	I thank the president. Here at the end of this debate or at the end of this debate which, of course, was not exactly how this topic would deserve it, but it wasn't the worst, I must admit, what it can be, only in the spirit of what my first and initial intervention was, would insist that we try to end this debate, including the amendments, and in particular, we remain as aware of the seriousness and weight of the topic that we are talking about. I didn't recognize myself in these calls, and I really didn't have any intention of politicizing this thing in any way, or sharing responsibility, or praise, or a pack of different regimes that did or didn't do anything. We have a concrete bill. I said that I would prefer, as in several other cases, that I could praise and support him as I did when I was talking about such topics, similar, I've already done. I can't this time. I said why. I don't pass it on to anyone, I don't judge anyone, but I find my position on this matter relevant to the opinion of these parent associations. If they feel that they are not satisfied, and I said that their suffering and suffering is such that somehow it has made them all better and are certainly above, if we cannot be sure, these people are certainly above that day-to-day political and political games, as they do not want that story to be reduced to compensation materially, so they also believe that this existing solution or existing solutions do not guarantee the truth, which is what they are looking for, truth and justice. If it turns out differently, I'll be happy, but I'd remind all those who spoke here on one side or on the other, I'm just critical of it, someone else said that and on this side of the position that he didn't believe, I don't know who, that there is. Really when I heard about those cases, I thought it was just an unscheduled record and it's not possible. Turns out when the dice agreed not to be possible but it's very likely, almost certainly, and it wasn't just us cases of that kind. I also agree with someone who is, I'm really not sure who was, perhaps even my colleague Arsic, mentioned that for those responsible for this punishment, it would have to be equal to what we have done here and who we have agreed with, most of us here, that it should be such and frightening, similar to those who are convicted of rape and abuse and child murder. So, in rank responsibility to me, in my sense that responsibility is almost so much, not only won't it be so much, but I'm afraid, and that's what makes me worry and this question that no one will be convicted at all, and I would raise both hands for a bill that can't guarantee it, but at least which promises that this practice will be interrupted. Of course there's interruptions. Of course there was a conspiracy. It can't be that practice that's existed for years, that no one's answered. Correct me, is there anyone for the mandate of this authority and previous authorities both before old age and after old age, and I agree that there must be no obsolescence, did anyone answer? What kind of machine is that? Well, even the most perfect crime is determined, the most perfect and technically perfect, and some remain a clue, and there's nothing like this supposed to be. No, but it's probably got those cloaking practices, the hand of the menu, the unhappiness and everything that's there, unfortunately in the doctor's dam where it's even scarier. So, not judging anyone, not pointing to the finger and not stamping it, I simply feel that we are in debt and I have appealed for it to the representatives of the government, who are proposing that in the spirit of this practice that they have regulated on this matter, conversations, I do not underestimate the work of the commission, nor anything formed a few years ago, nor would I have to tear this proposal apart as some did in front of the cameras, but simply if some steps had been made, it might have been possible for them to take at least one thing relatively concisely and happily bring an end to these objections, not mine, not some colleagues from the opposition, but parent associations, and get a proposal or a proposal that could have been followed, and that at least one thing would have been relatively concisely and happily brought to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72450	Thank you. MP Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72451	I would like to thank, Your Honor, the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable fellow Members of Parliament. Based on today, I'd say more than exhaustive discussion, I'd say two conclusions are imposed. First, that there is indeed the largest number of exhibitions on both this position and the other side that talk about the problem being solved for the first time, for the first time trying to solve a problem that has not been dating since yesterday, but that has existed for decades. I think that's one essential thing, one conclusion that I'm saying this time, and that's that the problems are not pushed under the carpet, but that the problems are solved by these authorities. The second conclusion is that, personally, I think that all those who in any way abuse such a difficult and painful topic for the purpose of politics, whether they are one-day or whatever they think. I think and I say they will be punished in the next election because this topic must not be politics. This topic is so difficult that we all have to respect together both the pain and the pain of all those parents who have felt this suffering, who have this feeling solely because of suspicion, even though it is doubtful that something so terrible has happened. Once again, I am proud of all the people of the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs and the Ministry of Health, I am proud of our work together, because we have set out to cross that first step. That's how I look at it. After this, I would say on a successful day, a successful debate, I think that in the next period there is plenty of time left to talk, I'm not just talking about legal repairs and improvements, but I'm talking about all those moments that are going to come out, first of all in the implementation of this law. Every solution that isn't good, I think we should make it right together in the next period. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-26-0.u72452	Thank you. According to Article 96(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 6 and 9 of the agenda. I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the twenty-sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 79 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
