ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73478	Dear People's MPs, I invite you to take your seats so that we can begin today's session. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to work, I invite you to pay tribute to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who died from the effects of the Kovid - 19 virus. Praise them. Dear People's MPs, I am opening the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the state of emergency, held in accordance with Articles 200, 8 and 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 151 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 149 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for today's work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the following MPs, who, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, reported: Borisav Kovacevic and Slobodan Veličkovic. For the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the emergency situation, the following Dn e n e d: 1. Proposal for a decision confirming the decision to declare the state of emergency, submitted by the Government, 26 April 2020 and 2. The proposal for a law confirming the regulations that the government has adopted under the undersigned president of the Republic during the state of emergency, which was also sent to us on 26 April this year. On the basis of Article 92(2), Article 157(2) and Article 192 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the proposal for a decision to confirm the decision to declare the state of emergency and the draft law to confirm the regulations that the Government, with the signing of the President of the Republic, has made during the emergency. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 29 MPs did not vote for – 133, against – three, abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be with us at this meeting, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Health Minister Zlatibor Lončar, Finance Minister Sinisa Mali, Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Branislav Nedimovic. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision to confirm the decision to declare the state of emergency, which was submitted by the Government and the draft law on the validation of the regulations, which the Government, with the signing of the President of the Republic, made during the emergency. Does the prime minister's representative, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73479	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens, Serbian citizens, I would like to give you a brief overview of what we have done as the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the last 60 and a few days, a little longer than two months, two and a half months, and then, with ministers who participated most in this fight because these are the resolutions, we will be available to you for all additional questions, to provide additional information and to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what we have done, how we have done, what we have done, where we are today and what we can expect in the future. At first, I want to say that I am proud, proud of my country, of how we fought this pandemic, of where we are today and how we are prepared for everything that comes after this pandemic. I am proud of all our citizens, I am proud of our institutions, I am proud of the team that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic and all our experts, epidemiologists, epidemiologists, transfusiologists and all others, as well as, of course, I will begin and thus end up with, and to our doctors, our medical staff, health workers, health associates and all those who were on the front line today, who are on the front line and who will still be on the front line for a while. They have the highest possible gratitude from me personally and on behalf of the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. The total number of registered Coronavirus cases in the world passed three million yesterday, already three million 73,000 356 people. The total number of deaths is 211.766. Today we have 924.637 cured by Kovid - 19. The first identified case in Serbia was on March 6th of this year and the case was imported from Italy. Before that, before identifying the first case, we tested a total of 58 people who had symptoms similar to SARS-KOV-2, i.e. Kovid - 19 and started testing when the first compositing case appeared, and that was February 13th. That's when Torlak got the first sample and did the test. All those people were negative. So, since February 13th, we've been conducting tests and testing on people who are suspected of being suffering from Coronavirus. First identified case on March 6th. The first meeting on preparations for the fight against Kovid - 19 was organised by the President of the Republic of Serbia on February 26th, ten days before the first case was registered in Serbia because at that moment we knew it was certainly irrefutable, irrefutable that Serbia would also be in the situation of an epidemic, or pandemic. At that meeting, on February 26th, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic gathered all our best experts, and then he made a plan for a future fight against Kovida - 19 with the relevant institutions and with the profession. I will also remind you that on the day before that, on February 25th, Serbia was visited by the director of the World Health Organisation for Europe, Mr. Hans Kluge, who we talked about precisely on the topic of fighting COVID 19, who at that time praised everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, preparedness and how we planned for an epidemic that is definitely coming to our country. Hans Kluge from Serbia then, only from Serbia, traveled to Italy, which speaks enough about how well we prepared to have a WHO director in Serbia, at consultations, in preparation, before the man even went to Italy. The first death in Serbia, unfortunately, took place on 20 March 2020. He died, as you all know now, by a man from Kickinda, who also got infected through contact from Italy. In conclusion, on April 27th, and today around 15.00 hours, after the waist comes out with concrete data, I will tell you what the updated data are for today, but in the end of yesterday, there are in Serbia 8,275 patients with Coron virus disease, 162 people deceased from the Coron virus, 1,209 people who have been cured, 67,917 tested or about 1,000 tests on 100,000 inhabitants. Compared to this part of Europe, therefore, not with our region, as the Western Balkans now popularly call it, but with this part of Europe, I mean Montenegro, Albania, Bulgaria, Northern Macedonia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Hungary and Romania, Serbia has the lowest mortality rate. It is 1.9% and we are second in absolute number of tests carried out behind Romania, third in the number of tests carried out on 100,000 inhabitants behind Romania and Montenegro. I hope that after today, therefore, we are third now, that after today we will be second to the total number of tests done on 100,000 inhabitants. From the very beginning, as we have said several times, we have set two basic goals in this fight, which has led us since day one, and this is what we are doing today, and this is what we seem to be measuring our success or failure. These two goals are: first, to protect our health system, to protect it so that at all times our health system has enough capacity, resources, protective equipment, medicines, people, doctors, medical teams, that at all times we have everything we need, enough strength, to protect them, to fight for the lives of people, because we saw that this was where the biggest problem was in the whole world, which is that because of the exponential growth you have a health system that practically falls, a health system that breaks, which is nonexistent and then you have a huge mortality rate, a system that cannot face the fight against COVID 19. So our first and primary task was to try to protect our health system and our healthcare professionals so that they could protect us. The second primary goal was to protect older citizens, that most endangered category of population, from this virus, so over 65 years of age, as well as chronic patients. So, they were absolutely targeted as the most endangered category, and our goal was to see how we can at all costs protect their lives, the lives of our parents, our grandparents, our neighbors, our friends, all those who worked for this country, build this country and really have a lot of rights, and we need to have a sense of responsibility to, at all costs, not thinking about political consequences, or any other consequences, protect their lives and preserve them. It seems to me, and today we are here to discuss it, and I will defend it with all my heart, that we have had timely measures, that we have had smart measures, that we have shown responsible state policy, in line with the recommendations of the profession. We were able to prevent the exponential growth of the infected and collapse of the health system. I will give only a brief overview of the most important measures the Republic of Serbia has taken in the fight against COVID-19 and a comparison with other European countries. What I'm proud of and what makes me think that today we have the least mortality rate in this part of Europe anyway. We've been criticised for these two months and a few months for introducing a state of emergency, for repressive measures. We are criticised that it is not democratic, that it is the collapse of institutions. We are criticised for the rule of law, human rights and human freedoms. In Europe, 27 countries have declared a state of emergency. Many of them have introduced a movement ban. We have decided to ban public gatherings from taking place on 11 March. It was nine days before the first death in the Republic of Serbia. Italy decided to ban public gatherings 12 days after the first death case, Germany 11 days after the first death case, Great Britain 12 days after the first death case, France 15 days after the first death case, Spain six days after the first death. On March 15th, Serbia stopped teaching in schools and we fought for each day, because we knew that after that, there was no more school. So, five days before the first death, we stopped teaching in schools, Italy 12 days after the first death case, Germany six days after the first death case, Great Britain 18 days after the first death case, France 31 days after the first death case, Spain 12 days after the first death. We closed our borders on 19 March, which was one day before the first death in the Republic of Serbia. Italy closed the borders 18 days after the first death case, Germany seven days later, Spain 11 days after the first death case and the UK did not close its borders, France in part. Today, when we are on the descending course of the epidemic, we see that for the past three or four days we have between 5.8% and 6.1% positive relative to the tested or diseased relative to the total test. And when we still can't declare victory, but we really have every reason to believe that if it goes on like this, we can keep discipline and clever management of this crisis situation, that we'll be able to do it soon. It seems to me that we can say to the greatest extent possible that we have succeeded in what we have plotted through these two goals that we have achieved this. Our health system has survived. He's on his feet today. He never fell, never kneeled. At all times we had the capacity and accommodation of all the infected and medical teams to take care of them and the respirators and the drugs and we never chose whether to save one human life or another human life. Our health system at times when many health systems across Europe and around the world, much richer and much more developed countries when they fell, our health system remained on its feet. We have preserved, to a large extent, not entirely, unfortunately, and we will remember forever, without any false pathetics, every human life, but to the greatest extent possible, we have preserved the lives of our older citizens. If you compare the mortality of older people in other countries and also in Serbia, you will see that this is more than clear. We've been working for about 64, 65 days, since February 21st, so something and beyond that seems more to me than ever before, certainly more than when I'm in government. We fought for the health and lives of our citizens, we fought with our hearts, we fought with knowledge, we fought with our profession, with great help and support, above all our partners from the People's Republic of China, and we should not be ashamed of that, we will remain forever grateful, but also our partners from the EU who at the same time faced both the pandemic and the huge, huge human victims of this pandemic, but also the Russian Federation, the United Arab Emirates, Norway, Turkey, Hungary, many others. I want to give them really great eternal gratitude for all the support they've given us. Once again to underline to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, no single resource, no single resource was spared in this struggle, because this was a struggle for the lives of our citizens. I can also briefly explain to you what the phases of the fight against Kovid - 19, so that you, the honourable MPs, to whom we submit this report, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, know exactly what we did, how we did, and how we didn't do things, or how we came to mind, or how we reacted to things, that we had a systemic approach, that we had a strategy, and that we had exactly a plan of what we should do when we needed to do. We had four phases of fighting against Kovid – 19. The first phase was, of course, preparation for the epidemic in Serbia. Here was the most important planning of our resources under the health system of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, identification of covid hospitals, so hospitals that will only be treated and treated exclusively by coronary virus, in phases. We had, first of all, a scenario for Belgrade, for Novi Sad and Nis. I'll give you one example here. For Belgrade, we received the first homage of the Infectious Clinic of the Clinical Centre of Serbia. We only prepared it for patients from the coronary virus. We knew that how it was empty that we were going to start filling "Dragisa Misovic" and we knew that at 50% of the capacity, when the capacities of the Infectious Clinic were filled, we completely empty "Dragisa Misovic", the patients were sent there, emptying pulmology, the Clinic of Pulmology at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, and then the Zemun Hospital and then as the number of patients grew, which, unfortunately, was, of course, happening. Same plan we had for Nis, same plan we had for Novi Sad. We've been spreading these co-ed hospitals as the need grew, as we went deeper into this fight and as the epidemic spread and the number of infected increased. This has gone deep into the health system and planning to the smallest details, of all the resources in our health system, which scanners, CT machines, x-rays will be used only to fight Kovid – 19, because they can't be used for other patients, where we're going to put other patients who have been lying in all these clinics by then, how we're going to make sure that a covid doesn't get into our hospitals as long as possible, etc., how we're going to provide medical teams, because we knew we don't have enough doctors, how we're going to make medical teams that we're going to pull out of all of Serbia from all of these joint hospitals and centers, what phases, how fast, which is our plan is b, how we're going to train these people. So this was all part of that first phase. Security between 6,000 and 10,000 beds for covid patients in phases. Ensuring additional respirators, exclusively for the homing of the hospital which was, throughout this whole struggle, as you know, one of the priorities. At no point did we want it to happen that our healthcare professionals have to choose who they turn off and who stays on the respirator. We didn't want Serbia to ever get into this situation that we have to choose one human life from another human life. Fortunately, we weren't even close. I really hope it stays that way for the rest of this fight. Ensuring PCR tests, later and rapid tests, providing additional amounts of drugs and, in order to avoid confusion, we had drugs and all of these things we had. We were supposed to ensure that we had every possibility, for whatever number of patients we have in the Republic of Serbia. Ensuring additional protective equipment and creating daily distribution plans throughout Serbia. So, which will be the central warehouses, how protection equipment will be shared according to priorities, which are priorities, first and absolute always are health care institutions, healthcare professionals, afterwards the MUP, the Army of Serbia, the sanitary inspection, those who have protected our borders and who have been at the highest exposure to the coronaryvirus, then the Gerontological Centres, etc. Then we also made a decision on two important supports, also, given only these two goals that I mentioned that we had in mind at all times during this fight – health system, healthcare workers and our older citizens. That is why we have decided to raise additional salaries to health workers and associates by 10% from 1 April of this year, and this has been done. That is why we have also decided to give one-time assistance, support, financial support, to our pensioners, to all pensioners without exception to 4,000 dinars, and it was done on 10 April. We had to finish and establish contact centers, both for people with symptoms and special contact centres for pensioners, organising volunteer services. Of course, it's also very important for us to have a lot of time, a lot of energy, a lot of planning to ensure that the normal functioning of the state, which means a stable and regular supply of shops and trade chains. We've never had food shortages, no matter how much demand, and we've seen again that much richer, much more developed, and today they have food shortages. Stable and regular supply of pharmacies, methods for paying pensions without jeopardizing pensioners, preparation for teaching from home and via the internet, etc. We immediately started communicating with businessmen, first of all with those companies that were in the most vulnerable sectors. It is tourism, mostly trade, services, but tourism to the greatest extent possible. For full transparency and at all times providing timely, accurate and verified information to the public, we have introduced a practice of daily press conferences. The Serbian government has formed two crisis headquarters, a crisis headquarters for the control of the infectious disease Kovid – 19, which I am leading as Prime Minister, and a crisis headquarters to remove the resulting and prevent possible adverse effects on the economy, led by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. It was phase one, preparation. The second phase was preventing exponential growth and correcting so-called "exponential growth". They're epidemiologically guilty to ensure that our health system stays on its feet. That's why we initially entered the introduction of restrictive measures, the ban on movement, the closure of borders, the ban on gathering. This was absolutely necessary and this was advised, not only by the profession of the country, but by those who listened and read and professions throughout the world, the most relevant, most famous experts. So it was important for us to ban or try to prevent, to a maximum extent, any possible physical contact in order to prevent the exponential spread of the infection, the spread of the virus, so that this inflow into hospitals, it wasn't a question of how many people, but whether we could time-schedul them, so that the inflow in the hospital would be continuous over time, not that we had a major blow, that our health system would fall, and then you couldn't help people anymore, that you couldn't fight for their lives. We were then, and that's what President Vukic said, I have to repeat it, because I think it's really a sentence that best reflects that stage of our struggle -- we stopped life in Serbia so that life could win. And our complete focus was to have as much physical distance as possible, social distance. I will tell you a few examples of countries or cities that have had exponential growth, which by resources cannot be compared to the Republic of Serbia – Italy, Spain, New York, and we have seen what was happening there. That's what we wanted to stop. We introduced restrictive measures to prevent these things and stopped them. We also made Kovid’s information system – 19 in the shortest possible time, and great gratitude to the entire profession, the IT profession that has worked with us, so that at any time we can track the number of tested, the number of patients, the number of people in hospitals and the respirators in each individual place in the Republic of Serbia. From March 6th we lie down and wake up with these numbers, in which day, in which week of the epidemic we are, how many people are tested, how positive it is for Kovid – 19, how many people we have passed away, how many people are on the respirators, how many people are cured. I believe that since 6 March, the largest number of our citizens have been waking up with the same thoughts. She started in that second phase of distance teaching, and we paid the pensioners in a maximum safe way. Big focus at this stage, huge focus, huge resources were also on accepting the help and support that came from our partners around the world to boost our capabilities to fight this virus. The first donation from abroad was organised in co-operation with the Chinese Embassy. On March 15th, the tests arrived from China, then on March 21st, a large number of medical appliances, respirators, disinfectants, masks, other protective equipment and six medical experts who are still with us in the Republic of Serbia and will be in Serbia to help us, to advise us until we finish this fight and declare victory. Since the start of the crisis, our Air Serbia airline has been flying regularly to Chinese cities where it brings the necessary equipment Serbia buys, but also one that has large numbers of Chinese companies such as Ling Long, Hbis, Alibaba, Zi Jin and other companies, provinces and foundations donate to our country. In response to Serbia's 16 March request to help fight Kovid – 19, the EU announced an initial 93m-euro package, of which 15m euros in emergency medical aid and 78m euros in economic recovery, and the EU has still funded and still financed some 15 flights from China, hence transportation cargo aircraft bringing additional amounts of medical equipment. In Belgrade on April 3rd and 4th, 11 medical aid aircraft arrived from the Russian Federation and medical teams that helped us and still helped us in this fight. The United Arab Emirates’ humanitarian aid plane landed on 29 March, a total of 10 tonnes of assistance including a large number of protective suits, gloves, masks, sanitizers and other equipment. The planes and help were arriving, as I said, from Turkey, Hungary, the United States, Norway and others. After this phase, where we were trying to prevent exponential growth, we entered the third stage of the struggle, and that seems to me, many of you will remember that announcement, it is offensive or attack on Kovid – 19. That's why we're going into extended testing, so that we can identify all those who are infected more effectively, even those without any symptoms, locate potential hotspots and quickly isolate the infected, to start the healing process. So there was our focus on two things. A higher number of tests, extended testing and opening of temporary hospitals, so that those with no symptoms or with very mild symptoms single out these temporary hospitals to protect hospitals, to begin the healing process of our entire society. With great pride, I can say that during this struggle, our domestic capacity for testing or processing PCR tests has been raised as many as 14 times. At first we could process between 300 and 400 PCR tests, today we can do slightly more than 5,000 PCR tests, slightly more than 5,500 PCR tests plus 1,000 to 1,500 tests a day, fast. So we did do something, which seems to me a small number of countries can do when you're fighting a disease like this. We have opened temporary hospitals in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, additionally due to needs in Novi Pazar, Cačka and Krusevec. It's one of the topics some have tried to politicize, there's really no reason. There are clear reasons where and why temporary hospitals are being opened. And everyone at all times knew where the temporary hospitals were and by which criteria they opened. The least we needed, to have temporary hospitals on every local self-government, then to drag our resources into protective suits, medical teams, tests, X-ray machines and everything else. During this phase, we were particularly helped by the working group that we gathered at the very beginning in which our scientists, researchers, people from education and college, who gave us daily and still give us cuts about what is happening in the world, what the latest research says and what are the latest therapies used in the world. In that attack, in that third phase of the Kovid-19 attack, we have therefore set out, in addition to these traditional methods of treatment, if I could say traditional, since certainly everything in this disease is really unpredictable and not seen so far, but what was normally used by chloroquin drugs, hydroxychloroquine, and here we are also going with preparations for blood plasma therapy, which we started in the Republic of Serbia, which only a small number of countries around the world are doing. We have also started to prepare therapy for high doses of intravenous immunoglobulins and some other things, but really great thanks to our scientists, researchers, colleges, institutes, who are working with us on this, and which is why we could in this segment, indeed, seem to me, to provide the best possible help to all those who are infected and to do our best to preserve every human life. Finally, phase four, this is this phase where we are currently in place, these are preparations to completely calm the epidemic and possibly the occurrence of another wave. It's a phase-down rate of physical distance, a phase-back to how much normal state. Most likely, in this sense, it will not be until the vaccine is found, but we are monitoring and watching what is best to be done in the Republic of Serbia. What is needed at this stage, and we have already made a decision here, is to make an epidemiological study to see what our society is now in, how many people have passed over Kovid-19, how many antibodies there are, how much protection our population is, and this epidemiological study will be done by the University of Belgrade Medical School. It will start on May 4th at the cause of 7,000 households. We're on our way to home production, which we're also particularly proud of. Serological tests, antibody tests, it'll be done by our Institute for the Application of Nuclear Energy INEP, and within a month we'll have a home test on antibodies. I can say that at this point we have even more countries that have spoken to us and asked for support, if we can, we have additional capacities, or additional amounts of antibody tests, to count on sending them as well. Serbia today is indeed in a much, much better situation and situation than much richer and more developed countries. Economic measures are particularly important here. We'll talk about this in particular. I just want to say that we are measures to support the economies with which the crisis staff led by President Aleksandar Vukic, seem to be, in uniform, welcomed by all businessmen in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think I've ever heard unanimous support and congratulations for the measures we've now announced and set out to implement support for the economy. We have defined 5.1 billion euros for support measures to mitigate the crisis caused by Kovid–19 and for faster recovery and for faster growth and development, which is 11% of our GDP. This is, not only among the largest in Southeast Europe, but only from what we have seen in the IMF's research so far, we are among six countries, or with us, seven countries in the world, only seven countries in the world that have given, or are counting on economic support measures that are above 10% of GDP. These countries are the United States, China, Australia, Great Britain, France and Germany. For Serbia, the International Monetary Fund has designed the smallest drop in Europe of 3.1% for 2020 and one of the highest post-war growth rates, hence in the year 2021 of 7.5%. This is all thanks to everything that's been done since 2014. Today, Serbia could not have done any of this if it hadn't been for the fiscal consolidation measure, had it not been for seriousness, had it not been for discipline, had we not been seriously, had we led the state responsibly, and, above all, for honesty, since 2014 as Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic. The four main components of the economic support measures are the tax policy measures, i.e. the postponement of tax payments and contributions during the emergency situation, the release of VAT payments to donations to health institutions. Under two, direct aid to the private sector, which is the payment of three minimum earnings to micro-small and medium-sized enterprises and the payment of 50% minimum earnings to large enterprises for employees who have been set up to suspend work. Under three, preserving liquidity through development and guarantee schemes. Under four, support for citizens, or 100 euros for every adult resident in the Republic of Serbia, who, of course, applied for these 100 euros. Already over 183,000 companies have applied for three minimum earnings, and the Development Fund has already approved 25 requests for favourable loans of about 800 million dinars. What I am particularly pleased with, and what we are particularly proud of, is how this crisis has affected employment in the Republic of Serbia. We've seen around the world that hundreds of thousands of people, millions of people, have been out of work for the past two months. We have seen projections that unemployment will grow to 23% in some countries, EU countries. We lost 2,032 jobs in these two months. It was more initially, so when the president as president, as a man who heads the economy crisis headquarters, came up with measures to support economies that are smartly designed to be only given to those companies that have not fired more than 10% of the people, all of a sudden, employers went around Serbia to invite people back, to withdraw the layoffs they had already been given. That's what our citizens across Serbia know, they see, they witness it. That's why it's just as the first result of this announcement of economic support measures, we have such a small loss of jobs today. One more thing, I'm asking for some more attention and patience, I know I've paid back, but I think it's important that I explain to the citizens and the honourable Members of the people what we did and how we fought. We invited our citizens from the diaspora to stay there, not to return in large numbers, for several reasons, and we knew it was the biggest challenge and we knew it was one of the greatest dangers and it was confirmed. Today you have the hotspots mostly, so it's as if by map you can determine, in those environments where many of our people from the diaspora have returned. We prayed because it was potentially another huge blow to our health system, because it was also not safe for them to travel at that time, and because those countries where they lived and worked were able to provide them with more support, and we were better able to protect citizens who were in the Republic of Serbia. We're pretty criticized about it. I still think today was a responsible move. I think it was the most responsible and serious move anyone could make, because it was true. As hard as it was to hear it and unpopular, it was true. It was safer for them, as well as for their families, relatives, neighbors, for their communities here. But still, about 400,000 people have entered the Republic of Serbia, and by this we, next to Romania, are slightly more than Romania by the number of diaspora returnees, as seen by the number of patients. At the same time as we talked about it and called it that way, we worked day and night to help our people get back if they really insisted and wanted to come back. Especially those people who were stuck at airports across the globe. I'm particularly proud, and I think you all should be proud, all of the citizens of this country, of the fact that, like any other country in the world, we've organized so-called. humanitarian flights, completely free flights to transport our people from abroad to Serbia, because we wanted to help them and see how we could, in these truly inexplicable situations, save them wherever they were all over the globe. We have organised a total of 37 humanitarian flights, 31 towards or from the countries of the European Union. Other flights focused on destinations containing the largest number of Serbian citizens at the time, which were the United States, the Russian Federation, Emirates, Qatar, Turkey, Ukraine and Norway. This is how 2010 persons were transported to Serbia. These flights also transported to show that we are a responsible and solid partner with everyone at the moment, also carried 809 foreign citizens, of which 260 American citizens, 96 German citizens, 155 Swedish, 66 French, 57 Austrian, 23 Croatian, 9 Italian citizens and so on. The total value of humanitarian flights is slightly lower at this point than 2m euros. Serbia has also evacuated 29 of our citizens from the outermost destinations through a civil protection mechanism of the European Union for the return of its citizens, and a great thank-you to the European Union and all members of the European Union. Peru - 12, Australia - two, from China, from Wuhan – four, Cancun, Mexico – one, Cambodia – one, Chile – three, Cuba – two, Nepal – one, Vietnam – two, Japan – one. Hungary has helped us transport five of our citizens to the humanitarian flight "Vizera" from Morocco. So in every way, we looked at every moment, no matter what the situation was in the Republic of Serbia at that time, and how much resources it took to organize our health system, to help our healthcare professionals, to organise here restrictive measures, prevention, to consult with the profession. At every moment, 24 hours a day, we watched where our people were abroad, we tried and managed to help them, even though we were completely honest and said that at that moment it was best for them and for us here to stay to the greatest extent possible in those countries. In conclusion, to draw the line, the health system of the Republic of Serbia remains on its feet and resists all challenges. We have a mortality rate right now in the Republic of Serbia which is the lowest in this part of Europe and among the lowest in the world. At any moment during this crisis, stores were well-provided as much demand as they were, and in one month our demand was like a normal demand for four months of normal. We haven't seen any shortages. Never during this crisis have pension payments or public sector wages been questioned, even on the contrary. The salaries to health workers, who have submitted and submitted most of this burden and are on the front line, have been increased by 10%. Pensioners were paid one-time aid of 4,000 dinars. In order not to endanger them needlessly, we have also decided since April that we no longer pay our pensions in two tranches of 10 and 25 in the month, but that we pay everything at once and on the 10th of the month, so that they will be safer and not be threatened twice. It was continued without any problems, and in the best possible way, I didn't hear any particular criticism about it, and thank you to people for that, it was continued with class. Thank you to all the educators for taking this burden out on their backs. Serbia is among the countries with the lowest number of cancellations due to the crisis. Serbia is among the countries most defined to support the economy, even 11% of GDP. In spite of everything, we continued all key infrastructure projects, and roads, and projects in health care, and in education, and in local infrastructure, and projects in scientific and research infrastructure, and even during this crisis we launched some new projects, with all precautions and prevention. During this crisis, we managed to organize ourselves in a way to start our own production of everything that was deficiting in the world, and related to this and similar struggles, protective equipment, disinfectants, drugs, tests. Today, Serbia can produce anything but respirators. During the struggle, we raised the capacity to test 14 times and built one new, state-of-the-art laboratory at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, and another state-of-the-art laboratory is under construction within the Institute of Public Health in Nis. We, fortunately, did not see patients lying in the halls, nor was the number of the deceased such that we had nowhere to bury them. We haven't seen a fight in stores or food shortages or drugs. We had cases where our citizens abroad begged us to send them medications because there were no drugs in countries where there were no drugs. We didn't have to exclude people from the respirator to save lives for the younger. We've preserved fiscal stability. We did not need financial assistance from either the IMF or the EU. We lost all of us precious people in this fight, but, I mean, we showed the face of Serbia to which we can be proud. The attacks of one part of the opposition, all those who tried and tried to reach the authorities without a choice and who thought that in this way they could exploit this crisis, the crisis that the whole world agrees that the worst crisis since World War II, the attacks, the accusations of the most diverse that we had to listen to during this fight, from the settlement of migrants to human trafficking, to the re-opened threats and to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and his children, at this point in my presentation, I am not and will not look at them out of respect for our struggle, out of respect for our victims, and there will certainly be an opportunity during this debate. Once again, the highest gratitude to our healthcare workers, their associates, and also to their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73480	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give my word on the applications by Vojislav Seselj, Cedomir Jovanovic, Djordje Milicevic, Milan Lapčević and Balint Pastor. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has fought this time to save the old and the oldest generations and, apparently, has succeeded, but the fight is not over, the epidemic can come back who knows when, who knows where, who knows how and must be careful. Why did Serbia fight to save the old and oldest generations? Because we don't belong to the EU in spirit, and we're not ready with one move to sacrifice the oldest and say they're definitely written off, they're going to release our pension funds, they're going to release our budget items, etc. That's what they were doing in the west. One Sweden has about 10 million inhabitants, and 2,600 have already died of the Coronus virus. And when you look at who died, all over 80 years. In Italy several 10,000, in France also average in Italy, average age - 81 years. In Serbia, the figure was relatively low, and it could have been even lower, without being irresponsible in some nursing homes that preventive measures were implemented in time. But even though we have reasons for relative satisfaction, so when we look at the conditions of emergency as few car accidents and deaths as possible, how fewer people were killed by criminals, and so on, we're not even at a loss in total numbers but even at a gain. Of course, every death is tragic, the worst for those closest relatives who stay. He who dies is nothing to him anymore, he has no more problems, but the nearest relative gets hurt. If a system was applied to us as in Western Europe to allow an unknown epidemic to cover 60% first, 70% of the population to acquire collective immunity and we would be almost as dead as in Sweden and there would be deaths as in France, Italy, Great Britain, etc. We belong to a civilization that loves and respects the elderly and is not ready to sacrifice their lives to make a better and better life. From there we applied the measures that apply which are in China and there is at the part of civilizations a few thousand years old which particularly respects the elderly and the oldest. So went Russia, which also respects the elderly and the elderly, and first jumped into their protection. That's what's good about us. But we opposition are not here to praise the authorities, what is successful is the success of all of us, right, and what you did wrong is only your mistakes and for them you must be invited, at least to political responsibility. You're the one who seduced the state of emergency. Maybe there were reasons. I'd say - yes, they existed. A state of emergency, possible state of emergency, the emergency situation of the epidemic, but the emergency conditions were met. There is an old Latin proverb – Salus popula suprema lex est – the health of the people is the supreme law. So, what were you supposed to do? When seducing the state of emergency, you should respect all constitutional and legal measures, legal obligations to the extent that they can be respected. The state of emergency under the Constitution was to be declared by the National Assembly. You said the assembly couldn't meet. Who was checking that out? How she couldn't, when she wasn't even invited. They could've called us on the radio and on the TV, we could've gotten back together. If they say mandatory masks, maybe we couldn't get these masks thanks to the Minister of Health, there wasn't enough, but we could take the gas mask from the military, so come to the assembly session. I know, Maja Gojkovic was at the time of the bombing, when all the bridges in Novi Sad were destroyed, a military skeleton went to a session of the Federal Assembly, a military skeleton, under bombs. Is that what it was, Maya? Well, it could have been this time, and then no one could have said the Constitution was broken. The attitude of the government towards this tragedy that threatened us was good, warning, mobilizing but on the other hand a bit brutal, a little boastful, so it was possible to achieve the goal and step on something that wasn't supposed to or could not be trampled. More than two hundred years ago, in his work "About the Spirit of the Law" he interpreted why it is necessary in every human society to divide power. Because every government is corrupting, absolute power at the most. Because unity of power leads tyranny. Because every man who has power when he comes into a situation to abuse her. It's human nature. Human nature cannot change artificially. As long as we're human, as long as we exist, we'll fight for power, for primate, for championship, for domination, for hegemony and so on. There's always competition between us. Since the government is what it is, Monteskje explained that the government must be divided into three branches, legislative, executive and judicial. So that each of these three authorities can control those two. There's only then a balance of power. Of course, in this system of power-sharing, it must be a little more equal than the other two, because the other two have much more opportunities in human practice to abuse power, especially executive power, and perhaps judicial power. When the situation is so, you had to act under the Constitution to call a session of the National Assembly, so if it turns out that the Assembly can't be held, that the bridges in Serbia are broken, that there's no electricity to start trains, that there's no gas to start cars, to say, here, the Assembly couldn't meet. Where there's only one proof to you that the Assembly couldn't meet. You don't have that evidence. You say the government made a decision to ban more than a hundred people. Well, more than fifty people, and what do we care about the government's decision? The government that has been subordinated to us, which we choose to suddenly become our superiors and to prevent the National Assembly from sitting for more than fifty or more hundred. After all, we are not citizens here, we are MPs here, representatives of citizens, we carry sovereign authority in the state, not the Government, not the President of the Republic, not the Judicial Authority. National sovereignty is manifested and proven through us. Furthermore, the threat, of course, was the survival of the state, threatened the survival of citizens, primarily the survival of citizens, and without citizens there is no state. The argument to implement the emergency was there, but it had to be implemented in an appropriate way, in the Constitution and the law prescribed, is the essence. Now you can answer to me, you have a comfortable majority in the National Assembly, you still have, after the next election I hope you won't have, so you won't be able to make all the decisions just by your own free will to vote, but we'll see more. The fact that you have a majority and can justifiably assume that you will vote any decision, even if you name a horse a senator, does not justify you for avoiding a session of the National Assembly, because you have trampled democratic manners. It cannot be proved that democracy exists in one system unless democratic manners are respected. You're in one period here and you're in violation of democratic manners. You've been back a little over the last few months, and I have to admit it, but you've been after the dosmans. The power is sweet. Hit who's against the authorities. Well, then you've retired a little bit and started holding to parliamentary tradition, to mandatory principles and rules. There are other arguments, of course, that can be made in favor of our thesis that an adequate state of emergency has not been declared because you must bear in mind that neither the Assembly has been disbanded. Even if the National Assembly is disbanded, and it is not disbanded in the ordinary elections, it shall be dissolved only if emergency elections are required, if the Government has submitted a reasoned request to the President of the Republic to disband, right? We are in a regular session that began on March 1st, there was a guard, anthem, a ceremony, we were in a regular session. We could've met every day, we could've slept in the Assembly, first the ABHO team could've come from the General Staff to dust the whole assembly. Sometimes in the villages of us typhoids people were dusted with DDT powder, this powder causes cough, a whole series of side effects, but against typhoids it was good, saving lives, and now horses are wondering about DDT powder and other cattle, so it could have been done here. A team came from China, a team came from Russia, they know how to do it, they can teach ours, we can continue to develop these ABHO units, who knows what's ahead of us, and that's how we make sure. There could've been enough beds here, one of those army portions, a spoon, a fork, a knife, and we could've eaten, sat down and slept here. Of course, there wouldn't be a coma, you could have a bed on the bed, upstairs, even on three floors, but everything could, and it didn't. There's no need now, we're here before the state of emergency is lifted, we've made an amendment to this decision and we're asking for the emergency to be lifted at 3rd of May at midnight, and then to declare this special emergency, as it is called, Minister, you're now out in these conditions, you probably know better than me? Shut up, Rističević, I didn't ask you. So, yeah. This oldest generation that we've protected and defended, now we've got to give her a break, she's getting nervous, don't people now because of the psychic frustrations now to start dying on us. We have to appeal to people all the time and prove that we have strong arguments. Do not socialize, avoid direct contact, switch to social networks, switch to phones, so that we do not create conditions for contagion to occur again, but people should be allowed to come out of this sun because the sun restores trust in society, the sun returns will to life, repairs moods and heals from many diseases. Of these decisions you've made, some absolutely can't survive. The fact that you've introduced that the trial is done in a video link, that the defendant from prison follows the trial through a television screen and is sentenced to two, three years in prison is absolutely inadmissible, it cannot survive, it is contrary to our constitutional system, it violates the principle of direct trial, it violates the principle of public debate, and it is the presence of the defendant in the court during the trial and its effective participation in the process in one of his fundamental rights. The European Court of Human Rights has found that the infringement of the European Convention on Human Rights on Human Rights is also the case that the defendant was in the glass booth in the courtroom. You bring him into the courtroom, so you keep him in the glass booth, and that's a violation of human rights, and that prevents his constant consultation with the defender, eliminates the equality of the parties to the procedure and so on. Ever since the dosmans introduced the Special Court, which is also against the constitution of our system, that's where everyone is tried by the defendants... What's the name of the fish, Natasha? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Aquarium. ) (Marian Rističević: Riblja čorba. The aquarium, it's not fish stew. You're putting the defendants in the aquarium. That's what they did to the domania. That's what you do to them. It is absolutely against the European Convention on Human Rights. You bring him in like a catfish in the aquarium and he can barely breathe there, there's no water, at least pour water, so come on, so they float a little bit. No trial conducted under such conditions is regular and will have to be annulled. You have condemned so many honorable people, Chad, including the Legion and the Star. Furthermore, when it comes to people who have been tried in this way, their judgments must be abolished immediately and the Supreme Judicial Authority must intervene. You chased people who violated the law of emergency, so you punished them in cash, and so on and so forth. When this is over, in my opinion, because we've never been in a situation like this before and the people haven't had this experience, this time we need the offenders, it's objectively not major offenses, and in the conditions of emergency and epidemic, they're both terrible, but when they're not, they need an act of presidential mercy, or by pardoning them to end these judgments, or the National Assembly to pass a law on amnesty, where they're going to indicate exactly which crimes and for what way of violating these crimes. One more thing that's very important. Anna, you haven't been able to reconstruct the government before this. And you're aware of the situation in the government, that more than half of the ministers didn't work. Right? Some have followed their own interests, they don't care what the country is in. Some still prefer Western embassies rather than the fate of their own people. After all, several times, the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, told us that 20 percent of the money is lost from the budget for the Ministry of Health each year, you do not know where. And what happened this year? What happened in emergency conditions? It was to be called on by the BIA to take over the health minister's portfolio and to keep the BIA and the health ministry from going down, to prevent the robbery, to prevent embezzlement in public procurement. Is that true? Yes, it's true and it's true. He commended the President of the Republic of BIA for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73482	Thank you. The President has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73483	This is really in every sense a state of emergency. I must tell you, Your Honor, that you have once again assured me that in my life I did not think that I would hear Vojislav Seselj calling for the European Convention on Human Rights, but they are an emergency. I want to thank you for being correct enough to say at least that we have fought this fight well and that you do not criticise things that concern human life and the health of the nation. As far as your concerns are concerned, and I'll answer that first, and I'm sure a lot of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are concerned about the fact that the epidemic can come back, that you need to be careful, I absolutely agree. They announce that indeed an epidemic can return, that there can be another wave, either in the fall or in winter, and certainly we're not safe until there's no vaccine. That is why the Republic of Serbia has really prepared itself very well and we are further preparing for possible, parallel to how we are shutting down this and for a possible new wave, either in the fall, whether in winter, and therefore it is extremely important, crucial, that the Republic of Serbia has its own production of ELISA tests, or serological tests, antibody tests, and this is phenomenal news for all of us, and indeed for our entire country. Another extremely important news - that we, thanks to our organization, and especially thanks to donations from the Brazilian company EMS, who owns the Galenika, are fully secure about the cure "chlorokin" which, as I understand it, is one of the basic therapies for Kovid - 19. They produced a certain amount, donated to the Republic of Serbia. So it won't be retail, but we'll keep it for the patients. At this point, we have enough chlorokin medicine for 42,000 patients. So we're really secure and safe, both for this wave and for the possible next wave of epidemics. I would especially like to say that thanks to President Vukic's involvement, yes, I think there's another amount of chlorokin medicine coming today as a donation from France and French President Makron, so, as far as the drugs are concerned, we have no problem, we are provided for this wave and for the potential, if he comes along. Also, for this reason, we're also working on establishing a blood plasma bank, so all those people who are cured and rekovelcent, blood plasma banks, that, if necessary, we have for the next wave. And therefore, it is also extremely important to produce domestic protective equipment, which is now being established in the Republic of Serbia. Our logic was that everyone in the world would fight for these things, as they were fighting now, and that I needed as much as possible to rely on our own resources. So we're ready for anything that can happen in the future. As far as the National Assembly is concerned, and the profession has confirmed that it was special at that time, extremely insecure, because it is not just 250 people, you know it much better, it is probably more than 500 people who are needed next to you, respected MPs, to do administration, security and all that must be organised by one session of the National Assembly. So 500, if not more people, you'll know it better than me. In one place, in a closed place, at a time when the epidemic was at its beginning and rising, it was more than unserious. That would be completely irresponsible. We could do experiments here, because you say -- we don't have proof that it's insecure, we could do experiments, but since there are people's MPs who are over 65 years old, I believe that none of us would particularly want to do such experiments, because it would all be on our soul. It may be easy for you to say and it is easy for others to invite pensioners out, but they are not responsible for those lives. And don't be like Dragan Gilas, who invites pensioners to come out and say, "I think that's good," we think in the Alliance for Serbia that it's good, we don't have any confirmation of the profession, but it sounds good. Well, no, that political populism really in these situations not only doesn't sound good, it's going to cost people lives. So this was extremely insecure. We are not unique in the fact that parliament has not been ambushed. As soon as the minimum minimum conditions are met that, with all these prevention measures, when we already have the virus for more than a week on the downward path, when we have already four days of rates infected by the number of tests about 6%, and today we hope that it will shrink even further and we thought that there was a human sense that the National Assembly is gathering. Unfortunately, I still don't see it today, which is again to me, several times I've said it during this crisis, human, is neither political, devastating, part of the opposition in the Assembly, which has been using this for two months for political struggle. He has been criticising for two months why the Assembly did not sit, and they have no intention of being in the Assembly at any time, as they would not then be in the Assembly, since they had boycotted the assembly 15 months before. Now it's safe for someone over 65, and the MP from whatever list, whoever voted, to sit in this assembly, and for them it's insecure or to call on that boycott again while we're being criticised for not having a congregation in these conditions? So we're not unique in that. Is the Constitution broken like you said? So there's a separation of jurisdiction between executive, legislative and judicial, so it's certainly not up to you to say whether or not the Constitution is broken, but in the Constitutional Court, I think, so let's wait, let's say, that, here, you don't interfere with their jurisdiction as an MP. So, let's wait. I'm convinced it's not, you're convinced it is. I think we wait for the Constitutional Court. It seems to me that it is also in line with the rule of law, and I believe and in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, which you are calling upon. Let me ask you a few more things. Where did we show haughtiness? In our care of people? Where exactly have we been in the last two months, or for a little while longer, shown haughtiness? Alexander Vukic wasn't even into politics. The Serbian Progressive Party did not deal with politics, because he said politics are missing as long as the country's fight, all of us against Kovida-19, will not deal with politics, will not talk about politics, will not respond to attacks. I did it once, once. Where exactly did we show haughtiness? We've shown determination, we've shown courage, but we haven't shown haughtiness. As for the appointment of horses as senator, others named horses for senators, not us. Others named horses as senators. Finally, as for the Minister of Health and the entire sector and other ministers, indeed, I must now tell you that the entire government and all the ministers have done their best. Not every resistor was able, nor were such resolutions to be equally involved, but everyone did everything we could to implement the decisions we made to protect the lives of our citizens. The health ministry and the minister and the entire health system have brought out a huge part of this crisis and thank you for that. I don't think you have the right, I don't think you have the right to speak that way, after all of this, about this whole vault, which, after all, was on the first battle line, with all of us and, of course, the President of the Republic. So, great support to my ministers, especially the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health. And go ahead, let's keep fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73484	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73485	All my life, Mrs Brnabic, I have been a fighter for strict compliance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the UN Pact on Human Rights, throughout my life. I was the victim of that struggle several times under the communist regime and in prisons spent a great deal of my life and spent the whole time in The Hague tribunal constantly calling for the European Convention on Human Rights and only when I was ready and willing to sacrifice my life, then they decided to respect my right to defend myself and to appoint myself co-workers in defense and some other rights, it doesn't matter. So don't speak up. As a MP, I have the right to interfere with the jurisdiction of all state authorities. No one is indecisive before the Messengers of the people, nor is the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court is subject to criticism by the MPs, and since the Constitutional Court, we have had reason to criticise it for various bad, criminal and illegal decisions. And now I'm gonna do it. I don't know. The Constitutional Court hasn't even made a statement. He should have. It should've been an emergency procedure. It's no big deal if you lose one lawsuit in front of the Constitutional Court. It's no big deal, and if you say once you broke the Constitution in that, let's make it right, so let's move on, and not be uncut, that's just what you say. Then what did BIA have to run the main affairs of the Ministry of Health, when the ideal situation was as you now represent it? Did the President of the Republic give that confession to the BIA himself? Is that right, Djukanovic? Here's my witness, Djukanovic. He won't get along. I trust him.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73486	Thank you. You speak for two minutes and 18 seconds. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73487	Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, Ministers, I would like first to say that I am glad that we are working together today, that you are alive and healthy, which we will be able to conduct a political debate and to fight with the belief that we are doing so in the best interests of our society. At first, Mrs. Brnabic, I want to thank you. It's not just an expression of personal gratitude to you. I know you have a family of your own, like I have, like we all do, and that by doing a job in this damn time you've suffered a great personal sacrifice. And when you were wrong, and there are no sinless, I'm sure you believed and wanted the best as any normal man in this country. But I'm obliged to thank you as Prime Minister, because that's thanks to all those fantastic people will, and that's the rule of life, stay in the shadows, and in fact they're the great heroes of this time. We met several doctors in this pandemic, saw some nurse and some medical technician, saw videos of our trade chains, and in them people who made sure that every day we could step out or step into the world devoid of some fears that represented the problem elsewhere. I am obliged to say this as a MP and as a politician, because we are a society where there have always been a deficit in respect and this irresponsible surplus in demeaning and incorrect relations. Mrs. Brnabic, you said a lot in your speech. But try to understand me very well-intentioned. This is one of the last opportunities for us to have a political conversation, to talk politics. I think today more than a virus is said of the world's appearance after this pandemic and that infinite analysis is trying to explain to us what has changed in our lives. Why do I tell you to try to reroute this debate to another course, politically? Plexiglas, mask, gloves, chlorokin, antibodies, it protects us to a greater or less extent from the Coronal virus, from Kovida-19, but what protects us from political nonsense, from unscrupulousness, from lying, from dishonesty, from selfishness? What protects us from political blindness? Under this dome for 80 years, people have been saying, and we among them, confident that they are doing the best for Serbia, and what is Serbia like today? When we look at it, then we can say with certainty only one thing – everything in this world has changed, but it does not change Serbian politics, its character and our relations. We're not the kind of people who can agree to something like that because we live in a dictatorship. Do we want parliament in a session or parliament on a staircase outside this building? If we want the opposition in the O.R., are we able and ready to hear the opposition, listen even when we disagree with it and when we don't understand it? We have entered this crisis as a politically destroyed society. Which session of parliament do we now need to discuss, and which would leave something positive behind if it were held in March of the month? Do you want me to tell you what would have been the result of the March month session, and I think it would have been better if it had been seen then, so we could pick up the casings today and see who survived and who didn't, because after that session, we wouldn't have been helped by the respirators. The consequences of a session where you would show me your real face would be so that people would look for the virus, not run away from it, to look for a curfew to stay in the house, not on the street. That's where we brought this country. Today at 20 hours we applaud the doctors, and in 20.05 disorientated, a broken society slams into pots fighting dictatorship, and dictatorship is the policy your government is conducting in agreement with doctors who are being threatened at the foot of this Parliament. That's what we need to talk about, Mrs. Brnabic. I will say what is a terrible problem of this state of emergency – the way of communication. We haven't had much chance to talk about it. At our place, after all, the talks don't take place, we get along and bite each other. I have an understanding of the pressures you've been under, for difficult circumstances, for suspense. Today, it's easy to comment on some events, the actions that were left behind, but I've never run away from responsibility, I've taken it over for myself and for others and I know very well how hard it is to live and work when you make decisions for the first time in your life, when you have no one to ask, when there's nothing to compare it with, and it's up to someone's life. However, now that we're at the end of all this, I don't mean at the end of the pandemic and fighting the virus, you have to understand, Mrs. Brnabic, the government is not begging, the president is not begging, the government is not threatening. Perhaps in some other societies, yes, where there is a clear system of responsibility, but to this, Mrs. Brnabic, we needed a deal more than ever. They're wonderful people who've brought this state of emergency over the past month and a half. Generations of old and kids sitting in front of screens watching the RTS program and thus compensating for the lack of opportunity to go to school. They're wonderful people who have worked despite everything, and because of that, the government needs to talk to them. You should have, and you had to find the strength for a different language that you occasionally spoke to people. I understand that someone can be angry and hurt, but we're too much of a frantic society that, without consequence, can go through everything that we've been going through together since March of the month. So today, a part of society has the impression that it really needs to fight against the government rather than what is our common problem. At the meeting we held at the beginning of the emergency I said it was a shame for us to deal with party policy, to even talk about elections while people die at every step around us or are in danger of life. We agreed to knock down party hands when the state of emergency went through. This has not been fully achieved, and this is our shared responsibility. I'm asking you, Mrs. Brnabic, is there room for a deal today? What do we mean by that? Do we even know what this country is supposed to look like tomorrow or is it a vision of the government that we, since we are the opposition, of course, should deny appropriateness to one of our own? How old is Professor Kon, Mrs. Brnabic? I've been thinking for over 70 years. How much? Sixty-four, sixty-five years. He didn't show up yesterday in our health care. I remember him from 2009 and the crisis we had with H1N1 and when the state bought three million vaccines, and then unable to carry out the vaccination compromised the vaccine to the point where today we have a problem with a society that apriori refuses any form of such medical care, so we ironed the stains by sending the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Office to prison. A year in custody, released, released after that. We never talked about it politically, so we came into a situation today that whoever's doing his job, with someone else who's also doing their job, I don't know who Con voted for, whether he voted for you or for me, we don't need to be interested. The moment we made Serbia a country where the man who is doing his job, along with someone else who is also doing his job, with you, next to each other, cannot because you are my political opponent, he is the victim of all this. You have to talk and protect doctors who share today the fate of a whole series of people who have gone through what they're going through today because of similar initiatives, but their role in society is different. I've never seen Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. I didn't know it existed. At 3:00 p.m., I didn't watch those press conferences because of her hairstyle, I didn't notice. Unsatisfactory people, angry people, unhappy people, can be angry. Politicians don't have the right to do that. Healthcare professionals and professions must be protected here, not by showing them gratitude on television shows, but by saying once and for all – anyone who does his job in this country serves this country and every authority is obliged to protect it, and every opposition to respect it because tomorrow they will work with him or I should come with my Kona, with its Kisićka, with its Stevanović, with its nurse. It's crazy, it's not earth. There's a lot we can blame each other for, and we have to blame each other. I will never make peace, I will never make peace with the notion that Serbia is a dictatorship. What's the problem today? The problem is that Wolf is me, which is Gilas Gilas, which we can't get out of our skins. Which is Gilas Gilas. That's the problem. We banged in the pots in 1996 because Milosevic stole the election. He's running away from the election today, so they can hit the pots. I don't mind, and my kids come out, and they're pounding, and they're teaching from eight o'clock in the morning. Let everyone beat, let them show he's unhappy, but they don't just beat you, they beat me, every politician in this country, directly to parliament, to the ruins of parliament. Not because I want him to be like that, but because democracy is something else, like Parliament. I ran the country once with my colleagues in a state of emergency. The day after the assassination of the Prime Minister at 10 a.m., we held a session of parliament at which we confirmed the decision to introduce the state of emergency in the country. It was hard, we did it, not because we couldn't do it without that decision, but because we wanted to show society that the state exists. Today you can show that the state exists by telling the truth very clearly, no more stories about the advanceds, the liberals, the Democrats, the radicals, I don't advocate certain guilitarianism of order. In times like those we left behind, and which, unfortunately, we can't say they're not in front of us, today the Institute of Infectious Diseases Robert Koh said is returning the reproductive force of the virus to Germany, that from 0.9 it went to 1.1 and to 1.1 the system is falling apart. Twenty-six million people lost their jobs in America, four million in Great Britain, 1.7 million in the economic sector in Greece. What's the future, that's what we need to talk about. This country doesn't have a future if it doesn't have a mature and responsible policy. Yes, the schizophrenic is that position, being an opposition to the government and most of the opposition, but unfortunately it's the only way you can do what you think is right for this society right now. I think it's right today to tell Serbia the truth. To me, it's insulting the country, proving our incompetence by counting the dead from both sides of the branch, insulting the country, believing that we don't have any friends in the world, but it's also insulting the country and that press conference where the powdered dogs from the tabloids say what someone in the government doesn't want to say. Stop it, I'm not telling you personally, stop it. I don't like Alexander Woolin's politics either, but I didn't think it was an emergency time to make statements and ask for resignations. It's not done then. How many soldiers have picked up the virus by doing their job. What turns out that the army came out with guns to force fear into the country? You know why these people get hurt? They suffer because of an irresponsible act of opposition, but also because the government is incapable. A lot has changed, we've made highways, we've built a clinic, we've returned, we haven't been on the list of EU countries, we haven't existed, they couldn't rank us, they've classified us, they haven't had a basis, they're better today. But we know very well that it would be crazy to liquefy because the mask didn't get anywhere, which didn't get the coat. We need new protocols, arrangements, a strategy, a session to discuss how to define mechanisms that will make us more efficient tomorrow. We piss each other off. That's right. Who cares, who cares about it at all, that I'm pissed off at Wolf and I'm annoying him, and that Seselj can go on for another 100 years, it'll be equally pointless. This is an opportunity for Anna to talk about the future of the earth, to say what everyone sees before our eyes. What's most important to us in this state of emergency is the message that people are alive, that they want something. That's what we have to give them.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73488	Time. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. He said I've been running for 100 years. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73489	Cedomir Jovanovic tells me I can go for 100 years. Well, is there a man in this National Assembly who is bluishing more than Cedomir Jovanovic? What's been going on here for 20 minutes? Do any of you understand? Only him, and the Wolf, and him, and the Wolf, and Gilas, and him, and the Wolf, and Gilas. If you advances didn't collect his signatures, he wouldn't be able to report the list for the election. And that's one big game for you right now, and you think that's the need here and that. Of course, for the memory of those original dominoes that have ruined Serbia. What happened in 12 years of the Dosmanian government? Serbia is falling intensively from day to day, brutally, stychically, unconstitutional. It was with Serbia because the worst scum and scum came to power with a five-octobaric coup. The first mob coup in mankind's history. It was easy for Cedi Jovanovic to arrest his best friends in conditions of war and order them to shoot, but it cannot be kept hidden, that Dusan Spasojevic and Mile Lukovic Kum, arrested, were questioned and shot. That's what this government knows, so does Nebojsa Stefanovic, but she won't say. You are still afraid to open the files of this general, as he was called, Rodoljub Milovic, General Papaya, what are you doing with Dusan Mihajlovic and Nebojsa Covic? You liked Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73490	Thank you. Time's up. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica. Please, let's get back to the subject, let's not talk about such things. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73491	Madam President, only in the shortest. I don't expect any MPs in the O.R. to understand me. I wouldn't even say what I said in the discussion if that were the case. But I find it offensive to speak in such a way that my predecessor spoke of a state of emergency, which was declared in the country after the murder of Zoran Djindjic, Prime Minister. All institutions are free to do their job, they can do it and check it out today, if there's a legal basis for something like that. I believe you were obliged to warn Vojislav Seselj about the way he spoke. Not about me politically, it is absolutely not the subject of my replica, but certainly describing the state of the state, the behaviour of institutions, the mention of some people who insult him because they know very well who he is and what he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73492	The word is Alexander Vulin, then Zlatibor Lonchar. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. No, he was talking to me to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73493	I am, of course, very happy that Mr. Jovanovic does not support my policy. Far be it, the citizens of Serbia might think I'm getting close to the DOS, and that would be absolutely unacceptable. I never set this assembly on fire, I wouldn't have set it on fire. I would never participate in robbery privatisation. I would never bring Serbia closer to the NATO Pact. So I am very glad that the differences between our policies are recognised and I believe that even in the next elections, citizens will be able to appreciate it. However, anyone who is in this parliament and who has entered this parliament shows concern for the future of the Serbian state and respect for the state of Serbia because it is here. What we think of each other is that we will discuss in the elections, discuss and personally, say at least Serbian citizens know that many of us simply don't change, we stick to our ideas, to our beliefs, so let it cost how much. But those who are not here are the answer to the question – who will not listen? Who won't listen, who won't listen to the other? We're here. We're waiting for arguments. We wait and discuss with and without arguments. All that is allowed in politics, all that is possible, and even insults are allowed and possible, we are not children. We've all been here for 30 years, as far as politics is concerned, but to go outside to stand, lie, and, of course, always receive state money, it's meant, people's money, and to talk about how you're responsible, how you're better than others, how those who are here in this House don't represent the nation and the state, so that's the society we're talking about. If we're going to find out who the culprits are that this society doesn't work or works less than it could, then they're the ones who are just lying in the hallway of our Parliament, and they don't have the guts to get in here. You know, all the time of the state of emergency, from day one, all the government's measures have been attacked. And they weren't attacked once from any expert point of view. No one came and said – should introduce or should not introduce quarantine, should do this or what should be done in accordance with the experiences of some other countries to do something. No, we've only had continuous and unrelated attacks from all sides. You had Gilas who from a safe quarantine invites pensioners to go out into the streets. He's calling himself a skyscraper, but they're going out into the streets. You had Obradovic or whoever did it, who lied about some tents on Avala. You listened to them lie about helicopters being treated with corpses, masses. You listened to them lie about immigrants moving in Serbia at night to get away from somewhere. You listened to them lie that there was no food, no fuel, no general crisis, no power, no life in Serbia, all in emergency conditions. You listened to them say that medical workers are our heroes, and then they make their lives difficult by instead of dealing with patients, they have to go on television and explain that they have masks and they have gloves and they have to deal with things that aren't their jobs. It was the easiest thing for them to do their job, and they were the best. So, you've been listening to all these lies. You heard that during times of emergency, ping-pong is played with related media, and then Croatian "Portal" attacks Alexander Vukic, so it's being transmitted here, and then it's being commented, and that's what makes it a theme. You listened to media deliberately lying about the situation at the Belgrade Fair. A deliberate lie, news releases – a hunger strike begins at Belgrade's "Simu". We're checking in here, talking to people, not too many people, about 200 patients were there at the time. So there you are, checking, there's none of it. In an hour, when the news becomes news on all the media, people get alarmed and start talking between themselves – we start a strike, we take part in a strike, I don't mind this, or I don't mind that. They made news, they didn't check, they passed on, they made news. The wolf wasn't enough that his son got sick, but he had to read, listen and pretend not to hit him, not to answer, because, well, that's politics. I don't have the restraint he has, I admit it. So he reads and listens to what he's told - give your son a hug, kiss Daddy, don't go out with "The Fair." And he sends his child where all other citizens of Serbia are, being at the Fair, being treated in the best possible conditions, like all other Serbian citizens, and then he has to listen to them attack him – why is he at the Fair? That he wasn't, that he was somewhere else? What would we hear from that? What would they say? He hid his son, and here he is, where our sons are. So it didn't stop for one second, not a political struggle, but a insidious struggle against its own country, and it was fought all the time in these moments. It wasn't any enemy you could see, and there's still Kovid, you can't shoot him, he only wins by fighting the whole society. Only one if he gives up everything falls, only one if he gives up everything. If you try to scare a man into not coming to the hospital, and he has symptoms and he's infected, he'll infect someone else because he hasn't called the medical authorities, because you convinced him he shouldn't do it, because you told him it was worse there, because you told him something that wasn't true. No one was responsible for anything like that. For all the false news that was passed on, no one answered. We fought on one side all the time with what we had to do, we fought with Kovid, with his consequences for the health of the nation, that everything worked. You know, the army of Serbia is, we'll talk for sure, we'll have space in this debate, as far as it's done, what it's provided, what it's raised, and at the same time this same army of Serbia has been obliged to take care of our sovereignty, that our sky be constantly protected by both our radar and our missiles and our hunting couple, that our borders be guarded, that our borders be kept awake, that the bridge in Kosovo Mitrovica doesn't suddenly become what it shouldn't be, that it doesn't fall into the north, that it takes care that life doesn't bother every second. To all of this, you have those who have repeatedly attacked the Serbian Army, constantly lied about whether this is gone or not, as it is where it is not. We had questions why the planes of the Serbian Army fly from here, from this assembly as the main thing, instead of being grateful for flying and for having anyone to fly, which is working Serbia's Army and working properly. So we've been listening here to continuous attacks on your country, not politics, not parties, that's the least of the problems when you say it's no good, this or that minister, so it's normal and it's necessary, but it's not normal to attack measures that you know help preserve the health of the nation. Once again, I am grateful for the opportunity that we will be able to talk, which we will be able to discuss and infinitely proud to be able to talk about anything he has done perhaps the best, for me as defence minister, the best part of Serbia's state, the Serbian Army. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73494	Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73495	Thank you. You've done a lot of things, and once again I'd also like to thank you for the correctness of even saying that we fought well, that we did our best, and that these are circumstances where happiness never exists. When we talk about mortality, which is one of the smallest in the world, we're certainly talking about people's lives, someone's family, 162 people, and we're going to have today, unfortunately we've had during the night yet, it can't be shown by percentages. Thank you for that correctness. I think that the correctness, with all that you have said afterwards, is ultimately, as is MP Vojislav Seselj, who has resented many things for us, and when you ask me what tomorrow is and what Serbia today is and what Serbia can be, I think that this correctness is based on which Serbia can continue to be built, can be healthier society. I think at least today I think there's that basis in this assembly. I am sorry that there is not among all those who have received the obligation and trust of certain citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be MPs, to sit here and to say in the National Assembly before the citizens of Serbia, what they hold against us, what they think would be better, what we have done so badly, and that we can answer them before the citizens of Serbia, and not that they attack us in the worst situations when we have four, five dead during the day, to attack us on social networks, on Twitters, and I don't know what else, "facebook" and the rest, and then they don't come to say the same thing in front of everyone and to hear our answer. I don't see how we can talk, and I don't see how we can make any kind of deal. I appreciate what Vojislav Seselj did, just as I appreciate what you're doing. We have different opinions on many things, many things, but you said what was good and you said what you disagreed with and gave us a chance to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what we did, why we did, how we did, and to answer questions. Compared to when we talk about what Serbia is today, or what after the Covid 19 pandemic and what Serbia will be like tomorrow, I want to remind you, too, of what Serbia was like yesterday, what Serbia was like before the outbreak of this epidemic and before the introduction of an emergency. I would like to remind you that the President of the Republic has called on all political actors to discuss what to do, what to do with the elections, how long to postpone them, to put politics aside and that a consensus has been reached on the matter, that an agreement has been reached, and that this meeting behind closed doors has been very, very constructive, between people who think completely different things, who disagree politically. So the deal is possible when you have all the responsible and serious people. Aleksandar Vukic tried and made the agreement with people who respect basic democratic principles, and these basic democratic principles are probably the National Assembly and elections, elections where citizens say who will come to power, not those who decide who will be the transitional authority and how they will share resolutions even though they do not have one percent support among citizens. You're talking to me here, not as Annie Brnabic, but as Prime Minister and the rest of us who are here, but those who should hear you and who are an important part of what Serbia looks like today are not here to hear. I think you're talking to the wrong people. We have tried to reach an agreement with many and have succeeded in reaching that agreement. That's what Alexander Wolfie did. Aleksandar Vukic, also, when we talk about how Serbia was yesterday, said politics during the fight against Kovid 19 were gone, that he would not say a single word and we did not respond. I said, I answered once during one mission. You know why? Because I can't take that hypocrisy anymore. Feel free to tell me what I'm hypocritical about. And when you tell me I'm wrong, yes, I'm wrong, I make mistakes every day. I make mistakes every day because every day I try to do something. When it's done, you have to make mistakes, but I'm doing my best. Am I wrong? I've been wrong a million times. Believe me, I see my mistakes a lot more than anyone else sees, but I'm doing my best for this country and for all its citizens, and I don't care who he voted for. And Alexander Vukic, when he gathered the first meeting on February 26th, did not ask the profession who voted for whom, although it seems obvious to me that some of the professions are not an option of the SNS. Did he ever ask them? Did he ever criticize them? Didn't he invite them for that? No, he invited them, and they responded, and we're endlessly grateful to them for that. But also, these people have experienced insulting them in the most terrifying ways, calling them the ugliest names, just because, as you say, they did their job. But those people who do that aren't here with us today and I don't know who we're talking to. I think we can reach some consensus here about dialogue, not all things, but dialogue, agreement. I'm sure, because I talked to him, that the President of the Republic won't, as he promised, make any further election arrangements without meeting with all political actors interested in participating in the election. I think that's commendable. So, no, I don't think Serbia today is not the scariest society in the world, not dictatorships, not like this, not like that. Yes, there is a certain political minority of a certain part of the opposition with which, unfortunately, there is obviously no agreement. I'm sorry about that, but you're talking about people who aren't here today. Now I'm asking you, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to think, where today people who have mandates to be in this Assembly, and they have obligations, which are every day, but every day during this state of emergency and this crisis, I repeat, this isn't just a crisis, this isn't an economic crisis, it's going to fall wages, it's going to be fired, this is a struggle for the lives of people, you have today over 56,000 dead in the United States, Italy is unfortunately approaching the number of 30,000 dead, in such a situation you find that every day, but every day you attack your government, you attack the President of the Republic, to spread false news, and you're a national MP. Then, when the day comes to come and tell us all this in the face, and that we can answer in front of the citizens, you don't come. How do we make a deal? Who should we talk to? Where are the people who say the biggest mortality in Serbia? That's what the man who was president of this country says in two terms. There's not a single number, but not a single number that can support that claim, but quite the opposite. Then why are you saying that? Why? To bring down government on dead people? To bring down the government of the Republic of Serbia legitimately chosen on the victims? Why are you saying that? Here, National MP Marinika Tepic says on Twitter: "I expect you to explain where buses full of migrants accompanied by police are coming from. It's not a secret, we see people. What did you agree with Austria? The agreement, here, exists. “ What arrangement? Now where's the People's Parliament to tell the citizens, to ask her what kind of agreement there is? Here, tell us, which one? Why are you spreading xenophobia? Why do you spread panic among people in times of emergency? Where are those people? Where are the buses full of migrants escorting the police? Who saw that? Why are you doing this? What agreement is there? What's all this nonsense? What does that look like? You're talking today about what protects us from political unscrupulousness. Well, nothing, obviously nothing protects us from political unscrupulousness, to the common sense and intelligence of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who will know how to assess then who did what, because today and in the course of these two months better than ever before, what is who and what is who and whose intentions are. What's the name of this human trafficking? You accuse the President of the Republic, the legitimately elected President of the Republic for human trafficking? "How much do you take per migrant, Alexander Vukic? “ These are the tweets of Marinika Tepic, who did not dare come to the National Assembly today and say to accuse us here in front of citizens of human trafficking, but does so during the emergency tweet. It says: “The post office has already prepared payment cards for migrants. ” And that's a democratic option? And that's how we talk about Serbia tomorrow with these people? Where are these people who criticize and call in different ways those people who work with us just because they're a professional, they're experts, they're a job, they're in this business, they're educated, they're paid for it? Where are they? Today they're called the Wolf's Bots just because they're doing their job. I also hope that with these people we will not build Serbia tomorrow, nor the political future tomorrow, because I think it would be a minimum of correctness and humanity that they have come today, because the mandates have, they have obligations, they take wages, and they ask this question like this, not on Twitter. We didn't ask anyone to vote for anyone, if he's an expert, we called to help. You're talking about the tabloid media. I think there's something that's already been told about the tabloid media. And you know what I think is the problem with our society, if we talk about what Serbia should be like tomorrow? I think the problem is that neither you nor many others in the opposition can talk about the tycoon media. You can't talk so they don't attack you because you know how they are and you know how much money they have, you know what they're up to. We talk about tabloid media all the time. Let's talk about the tycoon media. Let's talk about the news that the tycoon media staged during the state of emergency, about false news that could bring down our health system, that could have cost us directly human lives. "Vojvodina Clinical Center before shooting without protection for nurses." You know what, even with this, I wouldn't have had a single problem, if we had heard from this reporter from this media at one of the daily press conferences that we had during this. Not once has that question been asked to answer, because the truth is not important. It wasn't the intensity of it. Lawyer Vladimir Gajic, this is carried by the portal "directly RS" - at the Infectious Clinic doctors received fewer salaries. Where was that? When did this happen? What's that for? "Our men on the front line pass in bags." Where was that? When did our health care workers make them out of bags? It's all the tycoon media. These are the media that pretend to be professionally objective. It's the media no one can say anything to. If we're talking today, and I think it's nice and we're talking about Serbia tomorrow and politically, yes, I think it's extremely important, then I think we should talk honestly and openly about all these people and all these media. Where are the press associations, these media releases on two words: Ace Lucas, but they don't give a single statement to direct death threats to Alexander Vukic and his children? They don't find it appropriate. And that's professionalism? And that's objectivity? Do I need to turn a blind eye to that hypocrisy and make us all cowards enough not to say such things? I think Serbia will pay a lot of money. That is why I am proud that we have both the heart and the courage to talk about it and stand on the line, because I think it is important for the future of Serbia. I urge you also to start talking about it if we want to talk about what Serbia will be like tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73496	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73497	Mrs. Brnabic, I do not allow anyone, nor the Serbian prime minister, to bring me to the same level with Cedomir Jovanovic. It is one of the most compromised figures in Serbia. The freshest compromise is that he took sixm euros in wheat from the stock reserves and never paid for it. Instead of being in jail, you took him under your control and tolerated him. On the other hand, he was one of the leaders of the Dosmanian regime, killing people at a time of emergency, I've already mentioned which two key ones he killed. There's nothing compromised about me. You can't keep me in control like Cedomir Jovanovic. And that's why I can always honestly tell you what I think. I've had more than 20 public appearances since the state of emergency, and I've always been constructive, and I've always looked for solutions and a way to make it easier for people to cope with this evil. I even came out first with the idea of taking blood from people who are cured, getting blood plasma, antibodies to be used to treat those who are most severely ill. Once upon a time, as far as the media are concerned, you've taken blood, but it hasn't been applied yet. Do you know why? Because we don't have the right doctors to do it, 50 years no one's done it. It's a medical history method. It's been over a variety of medications, and now we're in a situation where no medicine is real, or even that chlorokin. He's just a secondary agent, an auxiliary agent, and he's got side effects unfavourable. Now the only clean way, without any harmful consequences, is to use antibodies. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73498	Thank you, MP. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73499	Mrs. Brnabic, it has to be different. It can't be made, we can't give it up. Serbia, whose President Vukic, not Serbia whose president I, who issued in Kosovo, is so evil that it cannot be in the same sentence that the war criminal offends him, Serbia in an emergency, in a pandemic, has sent tests to Kosovo to Alibino Kurti and the Kosovo government. She didn't send scorpions. You know how amazing it was to think about it, to say it, to imagine not doing it at all, 15 or 20 years ago? Of course we all have our own responsibility. You're the Prime Minister, you're the government, and that's the difference. I know very well every media. I don't talk about others here because I don't want to be like them. Not because I have some deal with them, as I have no agreement with you to miss me here either, because when I go out with my 500 thousand voters there will be a show in Serbia, a miracle. You and Wolfie can't do it without me in the Assembly. But I don't want to be like the one you mentioned, who's been running this country for eight years, so instead of calming her down because she knows how hard it is to try to see, and it's never anything 100 percent black, at least something positive, some bridge defence to make. I can't do it and I won't do it. We're not the same, and you have to understand that. The government is always the most responsible. I disagree, and Vulin said there's no need to repeat all that. But in a state of emergency in all that, he's neither JUL nor the Socialist Movements to me. He's a picture of every soldier standing somewhere suffering and doing a job that couldn't even imagine going crazy and that's why I'm biting my tongue. On the other hand, you forget about the tabloids because the state can't communicate with the tabloids. Politics was the institution of this society... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73500	Thank you, MP. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73501	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected Prime Ministers of the Republic of Serbia, today when we face the biggest health challenge, when the whole world is fighting the pandemic, I am not aware that in any country any political party representing the opposition at this time is competing with its country's president, competing with its government, because they realize that they have only one common goal and realize that they have only one common task. There will certainly be time and space for political parties to show and prove themselves, but politicisation of COVID, such as, among other things, a dirty campaign that is directed, above all, towards health workers, towards health care, which are now Serbian heroes, should be put into quarantine at this time and during this period. It's a difficult situation. It is not a difficult situation because of Alexander Vukic, it is not a difficult situation because of the government of the Republic of Serbia or Serbia, in the whole world the situation is difficult and this is a struggle for the future of Serbia, this is a fight for the future of every Serbian citizen, a struggle for the health of every Serbian citizen and to preserve every life in Serbia. No one who is aware of the moment in which Serbia is present today can say anything negatively and can dispute the far-responsible and serious approach of the president of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, of the entire health profession. It reacted quickly and resolutely, much faster than when it comes to some other countries in Europe, and it has proved to be the only responsible approach to combating the pandemic. Very often they resented that Serbia has something more severe against other countries in Europe, and then, I think, correct me if I'm wrong, everyone somehow took over the model of Serbia. It's not my intention to compete, it's not my intention to talk about who's right, and who isn't, who's had a more responsible or more serious approach, I just want to say what's real and what's true. What can be so strict if you save a human life, when on one side you have the price of human life? What exaggeration can be more important than preserving a human life? You can't have 100% freedom of movement in the situation where we are and 100% preserve people's health. Minister Lonchart, that's impossible at this point. You can't take measures to advance, you can't advance the measures of isolation. The measures shall be taken at the right time and in the right way. And all decisions directed and made in the previous time period, aimed at combating the pandemic, have just been made in line with the profession, which was said by the Prime Minister in her presentation. Those who criticise the government's measures, but above all the government's measures when it comes to freedom of movement, should try to move freely in some other countries is that allowed? Well, that's a prerequisite for suppressing the infection. Today we must remember all those who unfortunately lost their lives and who died, to express our condolences to their families, but also today we must remember and proudly highlight every life saved in Serbia, to remember how much life in the previous time period was saved in Serbia. The great force of the effects of the measures taken during the previous time period gave one huge security to the citizens of Serbia. Decisions are timely, decisions are correct, and these days show that the results are good, and I am fully convinced that this will show the days ahead. You know what, ladies and gentlemen, MPs don't choose citizens to be responsible for the functions of people who are afraid and not to make decisions. This period has also shown the ability, the willingness of the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, and the overall Government of the Republic of Serbia and the health profession, to be prepared and able to make difficult decisions when difficult to make, no matter how unpopular and how difficult they are, but they concern the lives of citizens. A very often question has been raised, and even today it seems to me through a political monologue, although I do not want to talk about it, but very often there has been a question of responsibility for the president of Serbia and the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I am asking the question – what is the responsibility of the President of Serbia, and what is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, except to be with its people when it is most needed and when it is most difficult? Well, I guess that's the most important thing, not to talk about the monstrous and unscrupulous attacks on the family, the child who got sick, the child of the president of Serbia who got well and I really wish him all the best, like all the other children in Serbia, as well as all the others who were unfortunately infected in Serbia, but the child of the president of Serbia, as it was said, had the same treatment as all the other children in Serbia. We listened to criticism – the president of Serbia visited Novi Pazar. What's wrong with that? Is it bad that the president of Serbia shows very clearly that he attaches equal importance and importance to every municipality and city in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and Novi Pazar, Nis, Belgrade, Ćuprija and my Valjevo and all municipalities and cities that were a hotspot in the previous period of time? What was it they were actually expecting? That the president of Serbia is sitting at home and working from home? That the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia close the building and that the government doesn't work? Surely, then, there would be no criticism from those who today make these malicious criticisms and comments. The economic measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in fact, confirm for us that huge work, effort, commitment, energy is being made to preserve Serbia's economy, to preserve, above all, the private sector, to preserve the level of employment in Serbia, the existence of citizens, the standard of living, therefore, measures are directed as those of the most sensitive sectors and the most sensitive categories. Serbia has never been more economically and financially powerful and stronger, and that is why Serbia has the opportunity today to help Serbia, I am fully convinced, will be far faster to overcome the consequences of some other countries because of the stability it has, and this stability has occurred, as you said, precisely thanks to brave, difficult and unpopular measures, the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was also criticised, and whose foundations were set in 2014. Ministers of Health, on behalf of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia, I would like to say that our health system has passed the highest assessment, that it has shown all vitality, flexibility, speed, solidarity, exceptional adaptation, and that is why we strongly condemn all the shameful criticisms addressed to people in the area of health and health care. Serbia, this has shown itself in this period, has exceptional experts and should be appreciated, it should be respected and these are today Serbian heroes. Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this period has shown that when we are in crisis we can, it seems to me, rely on two things. We can rely on our own resources and rely on a traditionally friendly country. When I say my own resources, I mean that Serbia is an agrarian state, agriculture. Our farmers are also heroes, because if it wasn't for agriculture, we'd have a supply problem, so there was no supply problem. On the other hand, traditional friends have always been there for us. I'm not going to tell anyone individually that I'm not being criticized, maliciously interpreted, I just want to give everyone my gratitude. Diplomacy, that's what it turned out to be, isn't just politics. Its purpose is primarily to protect its citizens, and this was very clearly shown by Foreign Minister and Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, together with the President of the Republic and Prime Minister of Serbia. The virus doesn't know about the state borders, so we won't do anything unless we cooperate. Serbia is always pushing for us to fight this monster together. So 450,000 Serbian citizens have returned to our country. I believe that the largest number of these citizens will remain to live in Serbia, because Serbia today is a good place to live. Serbia is today, as I said, never more economically and financially stable and stronger. When it comes to foreign policy, I'm just going to take a few details. The foreign ministry in co-operation with the president of the Republic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Transport, has engaged in the evacuation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who found themselves abroad and their return to the country. The evacuation of the government's humanitarian flights, the planes evacuated 5,938 citizens. In total, 37 humanitarian flights were realised. These flights carried 809 foreign nationals. On the other hand, our citizens have been evacuated and transported with the help of foreign states and companies. In this way, 938 citizens of the Republic of Serbia were transported. The Republic of Serbia has evacuated 29 citizens from the furthest destinations through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism to return its citizens. Another type of evacuation is road traffic in co-operation with the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure. A total of 5.160 people have been evacuated since 23 April 2020. You know, you can love or not like, I mean one part of the opposition, Minister Vulin as Defence Minister or Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic as Minister of the Interior, but the great role of the Army and the police has given one huge psychological security to the citizens and every honor in one serious, responsible and dedicated work. Of course, every ministry and government in general has its merits. I'd like to take credit for some other ministries. The Ministry of Energy – provided the country's full energy stability. All energy companies have worked in almost full capacity. In energy companies, heats across Serbia and mining companies each day worked 50,000 to 60,000 employees. Oil supply, absolutely regular. Key investments of the "Srbigas" pipeline, Turkey's Flow, the New bloc "Kostolac B3" have not been stopped, the failure of TENT, the large investment of Zidjin in Bor, NIS investments. I want to commend, first of all, those employed in the mining and energy sectors. And they're heroes of this fight, because they made sure the state works normally. The Ministry of State and local self-government, e-services, has over 20,000 visits a day. The services of the E-Wrtić, contact center for inspection, for the past week the contact center has arrived 232 items. The ministry regularly informs local self-government units about the most significant regulations, conclusions, instructions, recommendations and correspondence. Hundreds of calls and memos were answered. The distribution of protective equipment for the organs and organisations of all municipalities and cities has been organised. Every day, on two occasions, they receive reports from units of local self-government about the work of a call centre through which citizens can ask for help or answers to some questions, and a communication service has been established in all units of local self-government that submits requirements for the movement of their employees during curfew. Even 5,000 demands have been processed. When it comes to the Ministry of Environment, more than 240,000 bags for infectious and municipal waste were donated to hospitals and centres. Over 250 solutions for disinfectants have been made, a special instruction for the management of infectious and medical waste has been developed. I would also particularly like to highlight the importance and importance of the work of the minister without portfolio, which has made her expertise and profession available primarily as a neuropsychiatrist. She used her spare time to talk to our citizens in Serbia and the diaspora. She has offered professional assistance to all citizens to overcome the situation they are in because of the Koron virus pandemic. What I have to say today, and what you, Prime Minister, have been saying, first of all, is that I can't agree with the recent finding. Someone said this was a ruin of parliament. Please, there is a clear difference here between MPs who understand what it means to get citizens' trust to do one responsible and serious job and do this job responsibly, seriously and consecratedly and those who do not want it. Those who have defined themselves for a different form of communication, through a political monologue, because so in the assembly hall are the bravest and that is the only way of their political struggle, the aferatic character of government, and today we have had the opportunity to hear, unfortunately, when we talk about the lives of Serbian citizens, when we talk about what else we can do to protect every citizen's life. We still have an attempt to politicize Kovid today. There's, you know, a key word of decency. There is a clear difference between those sitting in this congregation hall and those who have defined themselves to another kind of communication. It doesn't just mean that you throw everything negative out of public discourse to have normal communication. Competence also means that you are doing a fair and honest job for which you have taken responsibility, and that you are also carrying out the consequences for that responsibility that you have taken. This ruling coalition has shown that it cares about jurisdiction, but also respecting the principle of responsibility, not only in words, but in deeds. Please, who's talking politics today, who's talking about elections today, who's talking about ratings today, who's talking about responsibility today? The responsibility of those who have not been in parliament for more than a year, and that is their job, is their obligation and responsibility to the citizens. The elections are being discussed by those who did not want to participate in the elections. Well, for a few months, we've been dazzled. They fooled the public. They made a farce out of everything, and they knew that the only thing they had left was a boycott. You know, we have the Covid virus, and I think... I didn't think I'd be speaking to a political dictionary today, but I do, because you can't always stay silent at a dose of day-to-day political madness. I think there was a virus of political survival, panic and fear among them, and they're trying in every way possible to survive politically, which I personally think is very difficult. At the very end, I think that the hypocritical qualifications that one part of the opposition has given to journalists, sharing journalists with those who are journalists and those who are not journalists, instead of having great respect for people who, in these difficult circumstances, are doing an extremely important job, because the information today is very important and important for the citizens of Serbia and it is true, the interest of all of us. At the very end, respected colleagues and colleagues, as I said, both Serbia and the whole world are in a complex and very difficult situation. Today Serbia needs solidarity and unity, and no political demagogy, political populism and political marketing. There's only one common goal and there's only one common battle that we have to win together, and the goal that we have to realize together and realize, and that's why, first of all, we have to be responsible, serious, rational, disciplined, to respect the recommendations, that when we're told to stay home for ourselves, because of our family, we're going to protect others. I am absolutely convinced that we will all win this together. Dear citizens of Serbia, I have a message for you -- trust our state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73502	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73503	Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to tell you that all the measures we have taken and implemented have been done with a clear goal, and this goal has been to save people's lives and to preserve the health of citizens of Serbia. The result you can see for yourself and see all of Serbia, which is most important to us. At first, we told you that this is our goal -- that we want every human life to be saved, to save health, and then be able to be all about politics and all the other things that people want to deal with. From this point of view, all these measures we've implemented to this day, we'd do the same thing today, do for a reason because these measures have yielded results and these measures are something that the profession has decided is best. I want this opportunity to thank all our experts who participated in this, to thank all the citizens of Serbia who listened and thanks them today we have these results that we have. As for the attack on our healthcare professionals, I'll just tell you one thing - they don't have time to respond to it and they'll keep on doing their jobs, helping people and treating them, and those who attack them are free to continue, that's what they say about them. I want to remind you of an extremely important thing that we are already beginning to forget, which is that we with this Corona virus are going to have to live on in due course, that he can't disappear, that we can't pretend he's not here and pretend it's not a danger. All future results we have will depend to the greatest extent on ourselves, on how we understand, or if we realize that the Corona virus is there and if we follow the measures recommended by the waist. Don't think that the Corona virus will go away on its own, that it can bypass someone, that it will tolerate the behavior that pleases the transmission of the virus. If we don't respect it, it's much more likely that we're going to be positive, that we're going to be infected, and there's a much greater probability that we're going to have some more difficult forms, that we're going to have complications and, God forbid, that someone has to end up on a respirator, and then someone dies. So, I don't think this story is over, that this story isn't even close to the end, and I'd ask you to keep that in mind, to try to put all the other things aside, to help each other, to do what is expected of us as one serious person, organized people and people who will, to want the best of all around us. Without it, this can all fall into the water very quickly, everything we've done so far, very quickly. Any relaxation can cost us too much. So please think about it. There'll be time for everything else. There'll be absolutely time. But people will be able to deal with other things only on condition that they survive and stay healthy. Let's at least get together, get to that goal, get as many people as possible to survive, to be healthy, and then everything else can be done. Once again, an immeasurable thank-you to all medical workers, to all police officers, to all the soldiers involved in this. Many of them haven't been home for weeks, not with their family. They're in another place, they're in intensive care, they're under watch-scanders for hours, they're saving people's lives. At least have a little consideration about that. If they can do that, so is it hard for us to follow the basic measures - to keep our distance, to wear masks and not do all the things that are necessary to prevent the spread of the virus, which is there, which is with us? Please, just keep that in mind. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73504	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73505	Thank you. I'm very glad that MP Zivkovic showed up, since I'm listening to him lying in the lobby, so I'm glad he came here to say it in his face...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73506	Minister, please. (Zoran Zivkovic: Don't tell me! How can you tell an MP he's lying? You bastard! )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73507	Shame on you, such a dictionary is not used in this congregation... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73508	Minister, please. I won't allow this kind of communication at all, no matter who it is. (Zoran Zivkovic: Repeat what you said.) Minister, you can't talk this way with an MP. (Alexander Vulin: Liar! Liar! I've turned off your microphone, Minister. (Alexander Vulin: Why do you allow him to lie and throw away and not answer him?) He's lying! Minister, please, when I give you my word that you speak, do not insult anyone, for if you draw attention in a certain way, do not do anything like that. You heard what he was throwing. But I beg you all to be dignified. (Alexander Vulin: Is it an insult to tell the liar that he is a liar?) Don't argue with me. I'm really not in the mood to argue. If you want to talk, sign up, but I stopped your fight. The argument is one thing, and the argument is another.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73509	Thank you. So, as MP Zivkovic would say in his hate attack, can you do that? So, in their hate attack, how is the Serbian Army not adequately protected, and how, listen, why does the ABHO of our units not disinfect our streets with 70 percent alcohol, but for that they have to come the Russians, they want to do it with 70 percent vodka? So this primitive insult of our Russian brothers and this primitive outcry of hate suggests, among other things, that MP Zivkovic can lie, but knows nothing. The streets are not disinfected by alcohol or 70% or any other. They are disinfected with sodium hypochlorite, and it is obtained neither from dandelion nor from cherry, nor from plums, nor from potatoes as vodka, or from cereals, but from industrial salt, electrolysis through a special machine and from one to nine effectively killing the Coronus virus on flat surfaces. So now we know that Ambassador Zivkovic, except he knows that he hates both our army and our Russian friends and our Russian brothers, knows nothing about what I'm talking about. He says, "Why doesn't our ABHO do that?" Our ABHO did so in Kruševec, Valjev, Negotina, Despotovac, Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Raško, Kraljena, Čačka, Vlasotinc, Babushnica, Medvedji, Bojnik, Lebanu, Presevo, Svrljiga, Leskovac, Bačka Topoli, Ćuprija, Paracino, Novi Pazar, Vranja, Bujanovac, Surdulica, Varvarina, Aleksinac and Velika Trnovac, all of it several times. Why doesn't he do it anymore? It doesn't work anymore because from 2005 to 2007, at the time of DOS's horror in this country, the Corps and the army were abolished, and an effective ABHO was abolished. At the Army level, we had an ABHO brigade, we had a company at division level, and in each brigade we had mixed platoon, in each battalion we had one division of ABHO. Thanks to them, who have reduced our ABHO protection to one of the only battalions we have on the entire military level, we have to ask for help. And thank God there are Russian friends, who gave us this help, for helping us. This way you insult them and lie about them like this, and especially about members of the Army that are not adequately protected, says how much you hate and how much you've been through, and how much you've used this emergency, not to help your country, but to hurt it wherever you can and as much as you can. If the people of the army, who in thousands, had cared for each of us in thousands, were not adequately protected, you would have thousands of infected. Thank God, they're gone. Don't be sad about it. If they weren't adequately protected, you'd have dozens of dead, and thank God you don't have them and you won't have them. Do not be sad about it, but rejoice over it and say that something is well done, as has been well done. Interestingly, don't talk about soldiers, cops, nurses, doctors, who have been infected, infected in the work with those who have been infected, not that they've been isolated anywhere, so of course they can get infected here, not that I'm talking about members of the military, the police and everyone else being ordinary, normal people who have their own villages, cities and where they communicate with all other people. Look, therefore, who is infected in the unit and how many, where they are, and that they are all adequately taken care of, that they were all adequately equipped, yes and a being. You can hate and attack me, I don't care, it's your thing, I'm glad you came, you're in parliament, but leave the Army of Serbia and don't talk so ugly about our Russian brothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73510	Thank you. Here you go, Ambassador Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73511	Thank you, President, for trying to protect me. Of course, he's a failure and, what do we do, it's not your fault, of course. That I hate, so no one in Serbia was born recently who I could hate must be very important in order to challenge my hatred. As for the fact that someone told you that I said it in the lobby, so you set up someone who listens, and then snitches who don't understand anything, either you didn't realize it, or one of your three phenomenal forms that you normally have. So absolutely every gratitude and honor to anyone who has helped us in this time. There's no doubt about it, and I've repeated it a hundred times, and it feels every normal, but when someone uses it in an attack of their own, there's now a long list, a diagnosis, it loses any sense. Of course, the Russians helped, that they could help even better, and thank them for this, they have problems, but absolutely everything that was done here, and also one of the three military ministers said it was done in 50 cities in Serbia from our potential. It's completely pointless to pass on to me for saying that this aid could have been better and more adequate, perhaps more necessary to them there, perhaps in some other form. It's all because this government, and you're sitting, has you five ministers of the same government, who you have your boss, as you say, hides from the citizens of Serbia every day what has come here humanitarianally, what has been bought, how many respirators, how many masks, how many anything. When there's something hidden, it's because it's a lie, and when it's lied, we want to prove it, not only with insults, but in court where it's a place to prove it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73512	Thank you. We're moving on. The word is Dragan Markovic Palm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73513	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not clear to me that none of the ministers said what happened to Serbia positively, but all the time you've been justifying yourself to some. What's positive? It is positive that over 700,000 Serbian citizens have come to Serbia who have worked somewhere, that 90% of these countries are richer than our country, that their health care is much higher than our health care. That's the point. There is certainly not free of charge in those countries as in Serbia, for free of treatment, they must pay for something. There's a more expensive consumer basket in that country. It is that they have a higher salary, but the security of recent years and health and economics is much stronger in Serbia than in more than 80% of European countries and worlds. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact. Furthermore, none of you have said how unsanitary you are and how unsanitary you are because of work, that Serbia has made prevention with economic investment, and in the way that it has made several clinical centres, bought equipment, gamma knife and not to list everything, to use professional terms and not to be a better doctor than doctors who inform us every day and tell us what we should do. Ladies and gentlemen, President Vukic, and none of you have said that, and you are taking a nap, and a large number of the opposition were at that meeting, he called all parliamentary parties, the position and the opposition, and those who are parliamentary and those who are not parliamentary, I mean the opposition, and he asked – what do you think, people, to do, you see that our country has also hit the crown, do you agree with that, that and those measures, he says - yes. There was no vote, but everyone said yes. Do you agree that we do not deal with politics during the state of emergency until the crown problem is resolved and that Serbia has no problem as it had at a given time? No one said that. Turns out he himself introduced, I don't know, state of emergency, curfew, etc. Let me ask you, let's take it easy and not just talk about the crown, the crown. If someone is watching TV for 15 days, on the 16th day, it comes to him, and that disease is called autosuggesty, on a psychic basis to say, "I'm suffocating something, my head hurts, I cough, I'm going to the doctor." Let's talk about economic issues today. Serbia has done the maximum it could do against the crown in a health sense and in a protective manner. I have to congratulate both the military and the police and especially the doctors, as well as those who cleaned our streets, the buildings, and these are employees of public-communal enterprises. What are you hiding out there for? Man, it never happened, ever, that Serbia was helping economically, to give each employee, employed by 30,000 dinar firms. You want to keep your mouth shut around here all the time? Why are we here? Tell us what? We all know everything about the crown. Talk about these things, something called life from tomorrow. That'll be in 10-15 days tomorrow. Each of you ministers here who sits has enormous merits and honors, but our people are such that you have to tell him and that this story of yours and ours and those of the opposition is not only critical in the sense that nothing is right, that Serbia is the worst, etc. Deny them with the fact that the Serbs came from the diaspora and that more than 30% of these Serbs will remain in their own state, to be an employer, they will not return to the country where they came from to be a gaster. That's what we need to talk about. About agriculture, to talk about farmers, about what the price of cereals will be, what is that market in the future, Mr. Nedimovic. You've done well, but you need to know something that everyone has to do, and it's called the home budget, so that he can pay zero months in August, October, November. You know that a farmer receives a salary twice a year, and there's no hot meal, no regression, no sick leave, nothing. That's what we need to talk to you government ministers about today. Minister of the military, they can talk about Vulin whatever they want, but the Army did their job. The Minister of Health, too. Well done. Now they say it wasn't three masks. Wait, three masks, is that statistics for the result we did and made? Three masks and two coats. A ban on Easter holidays, here's an example. In Jagodina, the lady is a doctor, she has a three-month-old baby, a baby, a husband and she went to the village of her father, got the virus, the incubation lasted, and the day before yesterday they had symptoms, went to take away their wipes, and yesterday she arrived that mother, father, baby and that father of the doctor had the Corona virus. This is the result of why during the Easter holidays, communication is not allowed to exist and those who are over 65 years old come out of their homes, and that's the doctor. We don't blame that woman, but it was a Serbian tradition to visit your parents, grandparents and so on that day. So, there's not a single pea where at this point, only if someone isn't going to lie, or some measure that was strict discipline, like -- they're not going to tell me what I'm going to do, I'm going to decide whether I'm going to walk or not. And to talk about topics that leave you ministers who are not of the profession, except Minister Loncar, let Coroner go, talk about the economic situation in Serbia that is good, about the future and the economic situation that is good, about the help, about the arrival of foreign investors who are on hold. And they have now seen, these foreign investors, who wanted to dislocate their factories and businesses from countries where, which is the most secure, most stable state -- Serbia, to bring capital and that there is economic security and that our country has the best conditions. I also want to commend two ministers who are not with us today, which is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ivica Dacic, who, of course, helped with the government and Minister Ivica Dacic, to tie and deliver all Serbs who are around the world, the Minister of Energy, the mining that he has also done, Aleksandar Antić, well his job and the Government has shown that she has done her job teamly and that you can determine there, the jury on the international level from all sides, cannot draw up any observations. Let me tell you, I'm the man in my life who did everything before the deadline. I married when I was 19, when I was 20, I had a firm, I live in a family where they live for four generations, I did sports, and I can tell myself that I have some life experience. Four generations in my family and I have the right to speak as a family man and to say what it means that in a family where I have 12 members, we sleep in one house and mother and children and grandchildren and I couldn't find you a flaw. I don't want to flatter you. You know, that when something's wrong, I say it's wrong, but right now during this state of emergency, we use it, and some individuals say -- now we're gonna strike in front of the Assembly, and I don't know what, because the curfew is in place. Well, we're not going to get caught by Coronon, our politicians. I have the right to tell you, and I would like a few ministers to have and that we sitting here and showing, we have that political immunity and that we are solidarity with the people and that we can feel, I don't want the opposition to happen to her, but that they also know why the government did it. Some years ago when someone died there, and you don't know them, and you say, someone died there, and now your colleague died, your neighbor died, your friend got sick, the man you studied with, and it's not that easy. If we all joined together during NATO aggression in 1999, I don't know what time this came? What logic is this? What are our plans, what do we want to do, do we want to go out and say that Corona was in a transit to Serbia or do we want to criticise? Why? I couldn't see any opposition, and I didn't see you gentlemen as ministers, and here I am begging you, in the morning to pay one salary, I gave 100.00, even though my salary is 78,000, to give $100,000 to help the families they have. Not that you didn't want it or I don't know what, maybe you forgot, and that every one of us within the limits of our abilities is helping families that don't have it. I'm sure every single one of us sitting here lives a little better than the ones who sent us here, which is the citizens of Serbia. I don't want to talk about this because of politics and that every one of us who deals with politics to report – here, I've done it in seven days, that, and that, I've provided, I don't know about 50 families, for a thousand families. I don't want to talk about Jagodina now, that over 5,000 families have received packages from donors, so I've provided donors, not from the budget, that's what Sinisha Mali can see, because she controls Jagodina the most, the motto says – let me see Jagodina, what is the situation, to look at and to see that you can whenever you want, to help those who find it difficult. That's why politicians serve, not that they have privileges and that we're allowed everything because we're MPs or I don't know, ministers. Help Italy, so we couldn't do a better thing. In international relations with Italy, which was the country that preceded Serbia's bombing, we help as a small Serbia to one Italy. But we're helping the people. We are not helping politicians and politicians in Italy, we are helping the people of Italy. A large number of these citizens have died, and we have to say that a large number of factories, Italian investors have in Serbia and employ a number of workers. I will not say we are stronger than Germany, but the Serbian and Serbian citizens who work in Germany fled and came to Serbia. They used to run to other countries that were more powerful, and they came to Serbia. I also want to send these people a message to stay in Serbia, and they could now for this month and a half, as much as they spent in Serbia to make a conclusion and say -- I worked in that and that country for so many years, in that and that city, left my city that way and so on, I didn't come every year or once a year, but whenever I come, I see something new -- whether it's highways, whether it's an institution, if it's an object, I see a transit through Serbia. So you know how much we're going to get money from transit, gentlemen? Transit through Serbia is now bigger than eight years ago by 20 and a few times. Well, it's not just a transit of fuel and so on, and you've seen, there's never been any oil in the world and there's never been a lower price of oil and oil derivatives, and Serbia is a country, a house on the road, across Europe, not just the Balkans, and it's an economic interest. Furthermore, none of you have said, today – what about the people of 450,000, Sinisha Mali listen to me, 450,000 people have paid an arrangement to go somewhere on vacation, to the sea, to the spa, and these are payments for some other countries. These people are watching this right now. It's about talking, not scaring him with the Koron, you understand. Let's say -- listen, here, you'll be provided, and I don't know that your funds will remain until then and then. Maybe those agencies already paid off those hotels. What's with the money? And that some of these bright topics are gentlemen ministers, that statistics are briefly read by those whose profession, Loncar and Doctors, and your statistics, or Serbian statistics in economic terms, have never been better. It's not a statistic for someone to give you paper there so you read, you can check whoever you want. Sinisha, you've been taking a nap all along, the IMF has confessed to this country, wake up, the IMF has recognised the state. I'm sorry to tell you that, but the IMF has confessed to the state, the IMF is a money store. They've confessed to us, so you know what the rating is, you've got a bonus, we'll never be in a crisis again. For ordinary people to understand that, that means, if I have a friend, Zarko Obradovic, and he's an economic power, and I'm doing some work and I say – if I fail, I'll be helped by Zarko. A safe man. Or someone else, the Belief of Radet or one of the ministers. That's what respected ministers are all about, thinking about what people are looking at, not just this transmission. Well, we start any channel at night, three doctors apiece. I think each of us can go to medical school now and you've been through the first two years, because what's the message? The symptoms, what are they? Everybody knows that now. Next, let's not go back to 2009 as we then met the bird flu and then no one published it. You know why? Because we didn't even have protective means, we didn't even have a certain number of respiratory zones that have a natural disease, and I'm not talking about this higher force called Corona. I'm sorry, if my speech was a little different from the others, but I never wanted to prescribe from others, I'm a man of my life and I'm with the people every day. I go around every other day on a motorcycle. Here, I went to Jagodina now I'm going to Turkey, I want to talk to people. Why the engine? To have a physical distance, and I want to hear firsthand what that man's problem is. I'm not saying you don't travel, but to cut down a little message, don't come out, you're done. The measures are given, and it is known that the story must be respected and completed. If you get five, six times a day, I turn on any channel and says, "Now, why don't you gentlemen, as many as we have the sick, so we don't have 6,000 and some of the sick, take off the 6000," and we don't have 500 in Serbia today, we don't have 500 people, which we're dealing with right now, so we say six, so tomorrow we're going to have seven, so I don't know how many. They were cured, they went home. Those who have a milder condition are also home. Furthermore, we also had a place where all these people could receive and I don't know from Arena through the Fair, etc. So, all that was necessary as a prevention in the future we have prepared, but we have had prevention before the Corona virus arrived in Serbia and I ask you that what I was saying is being recommended, I have no power, no function in this country, but to be a recommendation in terms of just talking about the economy, about the future and that it is not true that Serbia is failing and that it is not true that we have no fuel and that it is not true that I can't... Next, no one, no one, no one, is asked whether you're now paying for your health contributions or not. In other countries, because you know how much the checkup costs? From 700 euros to 4,000. We don't have it. So that's what we're best at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73514	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73515	Thank you. Although I agree with you that we should talk as much as possible from now on about the economy and that it is extremely important and that Serbia now has to start its economy, its production, its economy as soon as possible and go into recovery and growth, although I hope that this fall will not be so great, even the first of these indicators for March are not all bad, and in the first two months of 2020, this year we had a growth of over 6%, January 6.5%, February 5.6%, so it all went very, very good that it gives us reason or hope that we can recover quickly, faster than a large number of countries, but we really have to do it most seriously and start doing it as quickly as possible. I have to say, however, understanding how boring this subject is for people, I still have to say that the Corona virus is not behind us. Please don't act like he's behind us. Don't act like we won. Don't act like we don't have those thousands and thousands of patients or every day dead. Because it can happen to spread, and then it's a disaster for both our people and an even bigger disaster for our economy. So we did, I hope we got into the finals, but in the end we didn't. Yesterday we had 6.4%, the day before we had 6.0%, April 25, 5.9%, before that 5.8%, 6%, so we're still at about 6%, I hope we're reducing today. Please, for the responsibility of the citizens, let's just not say don't talk about Corona anymore, because that's not the case. That's right. So, I think it's extremely important for the economy to return as soon as possible, with the necessary precautions. We've given these instructions, we'll give additional instructions in the coming days, to support the economy, to look at the companies to the companies if we need, individually, what we need to do to help them get back faster, to make growth bigger. But it's really important that we don't think, it's okay, it's behind us, it's been, it's all right, don't talk about it anymore, but I think we're gonna have to talk about this for some more time and talk about this and make sure that we get into that safe harbor, that we're parallel to it in the recovery business with all these support measures we've come up with. You can say a little more about support measures, Sinisha. But really, let's continue to maintain all the responsibility and all the caution we've had since the first day and before the first occurrence of the Coronal virus in Serbia, to get out of this as strong as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73516	Thank you, Prime Minister. The word is Mr. Balint Pastor. Here you go. Excuse me, Minister Sinisha Mali called. Please, let's give the minister a chance. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73517	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, it is very important for me today to have the issue of economics, to be a subject of Serbia's economy, to be the subject of the economic measures that we, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have taken to reduce the negative consequences related to Kovid-19, i.e. the Corona virus. With great pleasure, I would like to inform you that Serbia's economy, that our economy, that our public finances have endured at this point an absolute blow and a crisis that has never been recorded for the last hundred years. So, for the citizens of Serbia, for you honourable MPs, you should know, at the beginning of this crisis, that crisis was compared by great economists with that 2008 crisis. After just a few days, they said – no, this one is even bigger, even harder and looks like that big depression from 1929. Then they said -- no, even this crisis is bigger than that, since it's never happened in history that the whole world economy stops, that nothing happens as it is at this point, and because of this crisis, nothing has happened. Such a crisis and such a situation in the world market of Serbian public finances have been welcomed ready and would not have succeeded with such measures, we would not have succeeded with the results I am going to talk about today, had we not had and had we not gone through those difficult reforms that President Vukic started as Prime Minister in 2014 and 2015. To remind you, at that time our country was on the verge of bankruptcy and we said, we will go through difficult measures, decisive measures, but today we have such a situation that four years in a row we have a surplus in the budget, that our public debt is below 50% of our GDP, it was 76, 77% to remind you that our unemployment went below 10%, it was 26% just a few years ago, and at this point we have such a result, the growth of our economy, what the Prime Minister said in January, 6.5%, in February 5.6%, that there was no crisis in March of our economy would have been 6.1% in which, in the last quarter of 2019, only a few months ago, the growth rate of our economy was 6.2% higher in Europe. So, honourable MPs, we have achieved the goal we have been fighting for and we have been going through difficult reforms, which is that our growth rates are 6 per cent and more. Now, such a Serbian economy has welcomed or received the coronaryvirus and this crisis in February, March of the month, and that's why we immediately said -- with such stable public finances, with such strong finances, the state has money, the state has saved and earned, it has the opportunity to help the economy, it has the possibility to help the citizens of Serbia, it has the opportunity to obtain all the medical equipment that was to be obtained, and without jeopardising the stability of our public finances, without jeopardising the health of our public finances. It's a big deal. Serbia is now responding to the crisis by having enough money and having enough power to deal with it. That was never before, and that's why the state said -- yes, we want the biggest burden of the crisis, the biggest burden of the problem to be taken over, and that's why we came out with a 5.1 billion program, 608.3 billion dinars. Dear MPs, over 11% of our GDP, over half of our annual budget, is only directed towards our economy, towards those most affected by this crisis, entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the private sector, so that they survive this crisis and that we will continue to grow immediately after it at the rate we grew just a few weeks ago. I won't owe you much, but to remind you once again, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, said -- don't, gentlemen of the businessmen most affected by this crisis, that you pay taxes and contributions to earnings, don't pay a tax on profit for this year, we'll get rid of you, pay you at some point when you can do it. We're going to give you a minimum profit from the budget in three months, and we think this crisis is going to take less, but we're still staying here for three months to cover the salaries of all employees, from entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises -- 450 thousand people are there. The state takes over to say - yes, we'll pay for it. That's why you don't have a lot of people who are out of a job. I think there's now a total number of cash charges registered at the National Employment Service of about 5,800 if I'm not mistaken. And look at the consequences of this crisis on America, which has 26 million newly unemployed, in Great Britain over a million, Italy, Spain, France. Millions of people are out of work. One small Serbia is economically strong enough, with well-measured comprehensive, determined measures, to deal with this crisis, has just led to 5,800 people at the employment service. And that's a lot. That's why we're going to fight right after this crisis to start again with the opening of new factories, what you, the honourable Member of Palma, have said, that new factories are waiting for us, new jobs are waiting for us. We have shown in this crisis how, on the one hand, reform pays off, the heavy measures we have been through, as I said, which President Vukic started in 2015 and 2014, proved to be how important it is, because now we are in this global pandemic showing how serious we are, how serious we are, how serious we are, what a serious economy we are. And that's exactly what foreign investors, domestic investors also want to see. We don't get involved in their business as a state, but when it's a crisis, we're capable enough and we're strong enough to deal with that crisis. As for the IMF, honourable MPs, the IMF adopted analyses and said -- Serbia will have the lowest 3% drop in Europe, this year and the largest growth of 7.5% next year. And we're in the rebalance of the budget, which is in front of you, said no, we're not going to go over 2% this year and we're going to fight to make it better than that. We will fight to be the best economy in Europe this year, one small Serbia, which is no longer weak. That's why I want to and I hope that in the follow-up to this discussion we will talk about new investments, and new factories, about continuing to build new highways. Let me remind you, honourable MPs, in the budget rebalancing, where we designed the whole rebalancing to help all 5.1 billion people with this rebalancing and containing, we added 3.3 billion dinars to continue and speed up the work on the Moravian Corridor. So we increased the money for the Moravia Corridor in budget rebalancing, precisely with a desire to continue capital investments as quickly as possible. Not to forget my colleague Nedimovic, 2.6 billion dinars in budget rebalancing you have to help agricultural landowners and farmers in our country. You have two billion dinars for new vouchers, what the honourable MP was talking about, two billion dinars, 400,000 new vouchers for Serbian citizens, to spend this summer in Serbia. And that's where the state will help. Every voucher is worth 5,000 dinars. I've always been optimistic about our economy. Here in the government, we haven't in any way reduced the level of optimism, we're even looking forward to months to come. We need to listen to doctors, we need to be very responsible, very disciplined. Every day less that we spend in isolation in the sense that we are approaching this pandemic's solution is every day more work in our economy and for our economy and I look forward to continuing the discussion on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73518	Thank you, Minister Mali. Now the word has Mr Balint Passator.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73519	Mr. Chairman, Madam Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to speak to you concisely, briefly, I don't think it's time and time to give long political speeches. First of all, I want to express my condolences to the families of all the victims. I also want to thank, as many before me have done, health workers, but not only health workers, not only military members, not only police officers, but also employees of shops, employees who have provided services to citizens of the Republic of Serbia all these weeks, these months and a half, risking their health and the health of their families so that all of us other citizens of the Republic of Serbia can live as normally as possible in these conditions of the pandemic. Secondly, I would like to say that we in the SVM consider a fully justified declaration of state of emergency. We think that this was necessary, that the measures that were taken in these months and a half were absolutely necessary, that they were timely and proportionate dangers and that without the introduction, without declaring the state of emergency, could not protect the citizens, because, according to our Constitution, only during an emergency, or do not give God a state of war, certain human rights can be limited. If there were no state of emergency, these human rights could not be limited and the point is not to restrict human rights, of course, but rather to ensure the health of citizens. Without restricting certain human rights, such as Freedom of gathering, you can't, the state can't guarantee the safety, safety and health of the citizens that are now supposed to be first. I also want to say that the vast majority of citizens respected all these measures. Citizens passed a self-discipline exam. There have been extremely difficult measures and these measures are still in force today, and they will be in force for the next days. We respected those measures. At the same time, it should be said, there is also evidence that these measures, and among these measures, I am referring to the ban on movement, were not all respected. I would appeal to all the competent authorities to do everything in the interest of those citizens who risked and their own health, and also to the health of all others, did not respect these difficult measures, but only to shake hands, were sanctioned, because it was in the interest and preservation of health and it was in the interest and that all those who respected the measures and pensioners and all others who could not leave the house for weeks, saw that they were right to respect the measures, to listen to the Government, to listen to the President of the Republic and that they were wrong and that they could not remain unpunished those who did not. I hope the time is slowly coming for these measures to give way, of course listening to the profession, but we need to give some hope to the citizens that we are slowly coming to the conclusion of this first round of fight against the pandemic. Some steps have already been taken, for example, to allow people working on the other side of the border to go to work and that is very important, because of the existence of these people and their families. I hope that those technical problems that were visible yesterday will be removed, but I believe that from day to day the situation will be getting better as far as it goes. Today, the problem is solved and those students who, in our case, want to take the prom in Hungary, will be allowed to do so and it is extremely important. I hope that in some foreseeable future, the time will come for the borders to be opened for all our citizens, because simply for people living in the border areas of our country it is necessary for a normal life. As for economic measures, I agree with all those who have said it should be focused and it is certainly commendable that the Republic of Serbia is the leader in this region of the Western Balkans, as regards these economic measures and help citizens. Eleven percent of GDP is provided for these economic measures. I would like to urge citizens to use all these opportunities both for entrepreneurs and for agricultural producers and for all citizens to take advantage of those opportunities that the Government has made possible and I hope that many will. As far as rebalancing is concerned, there was hardly a word of rebalancing at today's session. It is important that the important infrastructure projects did not suffer a significant reduction in the amount of funds, which will be a smooth continuation of construction and roads and will not be the victims of these economic measures that were necessary and useful due to the pandemic. In our case, it is important that the funds in the rebalancing are intact as regards the construction of those two overpasses on the Ipislon arm, on the bypass around Subotica and many other projects could still be mentioned, which will be uninterruptedly continued according to the original plans. In the end, I'd like to say two sentences after all these sincere and open praises to the government, because it's my profession, and I just want to say it and nobody said it, and I'm absolutely well-intentioned about these things. According to the constitution, the National Assembly is the only establishment worker with citizens and the only legislative body in the Republic of Serbia. Most representative body, as we usually say. I think it is a mistake not to make a proposal today to amend and supplement the 2020 Budget Law, but to do so in the form of a confirmation of a regulation and, in that regulation, it says that it will apply until the conditions for the matter of this Regulation to be fully regulated by the Budget Law. Since the Assembly is ambushed, I think we could do it today, so this is how we're going to discuss rebalancing the same thing twice, and I don't think that's good. But it doesn't matter at this point, at this point, it's the essence, and I'm talking about the essence. Also, as far as another formal matter is concerned, we have two agenda points. The second item is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Regulations adopted by the Government with the signing of the President of the Republic. It's all done in accordance with the Constitution. There are 44 such regulations and I think it was better if we had all these points as separate and if we voted on all these points we would vote on all those regulations, because as I said at the outset, I think the measures were timely, justified and proportionate. These are some remarks regarding the formal procedure, but as far as the matter is concerned, I would like to give recognition to the government, to all government members who have sacrificed their health, as I said at the beginning and to health workers and all others, to Serbia as best and as easy as possible, with as few victims surviving this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73520	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Now I'm setting a break of one hour and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73521	We can keep going. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73522	Thank you, President. Dear fellow MPs, Prime Ministers, Ministers, Dear Citizens, today's session best shows all the consequences of the eight-year collapse of democracy, the rule of law, all institutions in Serbia and the establishment of one man's authority. If not, the Serbian Parliament would have imposed a state of emergency, as the Constitution says, or at least much earlier than it discussed today to confirm the introduction of an emergency. The state, unfortunately, when we analyzed today what has been going on in the last two months, no matter what we heard today from both the Prime Minister and the Ministers who spoke to us, was not ready for the crisis we faced in the last two months. Of course, the question is, could a single state be prepared to the end and have it all done in the best way possible for its citizens? What separates Serbia from some other countries is that in those countries, the way the state faces the pandemic was discussed in its institutions, parliaments, other institutions, the public, which was allowed and encouraged there, let me say, and criticism and giving different proposals and ideas, all that, unfortunately, in Serbia did not exist in the last two months. We have seen, unfortunately, this has also proved during this crisis that in the most responsible places in the state of Serbia are not always the most capable people. More often, they were loyal people, people with a proper party book, and I'm afraid I'm not professional enough for all the challenges they've faced. If we had been prepared, we might have received a report today on the state of strategic reserves, in line with the Emergency Law in Serbia since 2009. Were these reserves and how they were filled and how they were handled at the beginning of the crisis? If we were ready, I believe there would never have been that first address conference for the press crisis headquarters when it was said that the virus that threatens us is the funniest virus in history, that it doesn't make women sick and that they can go to Milan freely for March 8th shopping. It was said with the presence of several members of the Crisis Staff, headed by the President of the Republic. Just a few weeks later, 15 days later, the president of the Republic said they were all infected in Serbia and that the virus had come to Serbia, right from the region of Milan and the environment. Did this, the behavior of responsible citizens, help at the beginning of this crisis? Did it convince them that the state knows what to do to take the right action? I believe not. This pandemic is not a war. I find this military rhetoric that's been taking over the public for almost two months. She's not a war because there's no front line, no visible enemy. This crisis is a test of humanity and solidarity, because it is the best and most effective measure to combat the virus of social distance and responsibility of every individual in society. I believe that as a state, we passed this test, after all, but thanks above all to citizens who were willing to give up some of their rights, who were willing to listen to everything proposed by the profession, although perhaps they disagreed with it all, but they were responsible. I believe we have overcome this crisis because we have sacrificed health workers, workers in stores, farmers, educators, municipal workers, police officers, soldiers, all who have done their work every day for the past month and a half under extremely difficult and risky circumstances. I want to thank them for this opportunity, to thank them, to thank all citizens of Serbia for their sacrifice, for self-discipline, because it has not been easy to respect all the measures that have been taken over the past two months. When we are looking at the Law on the Confirmation of Regulations today, and this law makes up a list of 44 regulations that have been passed since the start of the declaration of emergency and when we analyse when and how measures have been taken, we do not see a plan, strategy, but unfortunately see panic, chaos, which has made the measures brought forward hastily, which have been changed many times, and it has not been easy for citizens to respect and follow. I'll give you one example. Since the start of the declaration of state of emergency, several different restrictions in the state of Serbia have been imposed by the interior minister's order until 9 April, although the constitution clearly states that only parliament or government can determine a regulation signed by the President of the Republic at the time of the emergency. Sometime they remembered it on April 9th, but before that there was an order from the interior minister who was not in charge of it. The citizens of these measures had difficulty accepting because they saw that these measures were not valid for all, because the most responsible officials said they would not wear a mask, that they would not wear protective equipment. Fortunately, that's changed. Today, we all have gloves and masks here and we act responsibly and as recommended by the Crisis Headquarters. Citizens were in fear for their health, for the health of their loved ones, and unfortunately for them the highest state officials in their address cried out, accused that by their indiscipline which was few and only individuals were jeopardizing the state. You've been looking for culprits in return from abroad, people walking pets, opposition, everyone else, you've threatened Italian and Spanish scenarios, too few cemeteryes in Serbia for all the victims to come. As a small example, I can do all of this and I'll tell you differently how it worked in Germany. Parliament worked all the time, the Prime Minister was coming, explaining, reporting what was done, what was planned to be done. At that time, Chancellor Merkel said that limiting the rights of the citizens taken by the government is justified only when the reasons are transparent and easy to understand, and that criticism of the measures is not only permissible but also desirable. Could we have heard such a statement from any representative of the government in the last two months? Today, when we look at the Law on Confirmation of Measures, we find it difficult to understand what was the goal of each of these measures. Of course, the goal was to reduce the number of infected and deceased, and I disagree with today's assessment that we were the most successful in this business. I think it's too soon and too soon for one such conclusion, and I think it should be, too, not part of a political debate, but an expert analysis of what has been done in all the countries in certain situations, which measures have been carried out and what measures have individually yielded results. What is for sure, our health system didn't crack and that's good. We were lucky. But the second task we've had is that the virus doesn't enter the centres for old faces. Unfortunately, today we see that we haven't done it all the way. One such center in Nis has entered the virus and, unfortunately, almost all the people who were there have been infected, and as far as I could see, 37 of them have, unfortunately, lost their lives to this day, and it has been said that this must not happen to us and since it happened, I expect to hear why it happened in the next period. Today among 44 of this Regulation, which is on the list of laws, there is no regulation on how to inform during the pandemic. The regulation was purely the introduction of censorship and thus shows the fact that it was called off after two days. That's good. It's a good thing there was some government reaction to one bad thing that was done. But unfortunately, the result of such a decision and such behaviour was the arrest of a journalist, and today we see that there is no criminal complaint against her for the spread of panic and what has been placed on the burden, and thus once again it has been shown that the government's reaction in that case has been, in the least, inappropriate. Unfortunately, for this campaign authority in Serbia, it was not interrupted on March 15th by introducing a state of emergency. The campaign for the officials of the ruling parties lasted all the time. The president, Prime Minister, ministers visited cities around Serbia. They often brought state aid, and somehow in an inappropriate way they represented it not as State aid, but as some personal help. The president went through the papers, and during these tours, despite the ban on gathering and measures on mandatory distances and not being present in large groups, he was accompanied by several dozen people, which, from protocols, security, journalists, media. You have pictures of what it looked like, but there was no story of the responsibility of those who were supposed to do the hardest part of the job. The last weeks in Serbia have become a new mantra. Both the government and the representatives of the government often spoke – the profession proposed this, the profession suggested that. I can only tell you that it would have been good if you had listened to the profession before, because there was a profession in Serbia that criticised and economic reforms carried out in recent years, judicial reform, military reform, education, media, construction of "Beograda na Voda". Then the message of the authorities was – we don't care about your profession, you win the elections, and then you can criticize. If, after this crisis, you have decided to listen to the profession, I suggest you create an expert crisis headquarters that will offer solutions to the economic crisis ahead of us. I believe there are professional people in the economy and in the academic community, but unfortunately, I know they're not in the government. The measures contained in these regulations, measures to support the economy, I cannot say economic recovery, because I fear they are not properly seen, most of these measures are hidden in a shameful decision that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, now that the Assembly is finally working, is not changing here in the way it is intended, but that it is changing by today we need to confirm the law in which one of the points of budget rebalancing is. This rebalancing is a serious thing, because it should affect the future not only in the coming months, but also in the coming years. Today, the minister spoke again about billions of euros in economic aid, but it is a question of whether the money will reach those who need it most. Already today, it is clear that the implementation of the envisaged measures is delayed, and for us, the most controversial measure on the distribution of 100 euros to all citizens who are the last in a series of regulations is now forced to apply for their right to do so. We've been saying from the beginning that it's better to spend the money that's intended for that purpose differently, to go directly to those people who have already lost their jobs and those who are going to get that fate in the coming months. But if you're not already giving up on that measure, I'm asking you to change the procedure. I ask you that those minor citizens, under 65, who you predicted had to apply for that help, that this assistance be granted to everyone, and that the number of phones you predicted should be reported by those who do not want that help. I think it's fairer and I think it's less humiliating for the citizens of Serbia. Because we are not discussing the budget, we cannot find out in any way how the state plans to be in charge of an additional three billion euros, which we can see in this regulation, under what conditions and from which institutions. What I'd like to see, and it's not here, and we've been looking for it as a United Democratic Serbia, which is to publish a donation report, what it is and how much of which it's received in the past month and a half, how much it's received from our friends from China, how much it's received from the EU, how much it's received from Russia and others that have helped us during this crisis. In some other countries, these reports already exist. They are public and are available for every citizen. At any time, he can learn how much help the state has received and how it is available to him. I'd like to say a few sentences about the 17th March meeting I attended with the President of the Republic. There was no deal there, because we weren't there and we weren't able to make any arrangements. It was then that the decision was made to interrupt all the electoral actions since the state of emergency had already been declared and the only thing we could agree on, that is, what I asked for, is to discuss when the congregation would meet. Unfortunately, we waited more than a month, a month and a half almost, and that had to be done sooner. Finally, since the last regulation regulating movement leaves the government with the possibility that, in accordance with the epidemiological situation, on 30 April the decision to ban the movement from 30 April to 4 May, I ask you to reconsider that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73523	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73524	I thank the honourable MP. Just because we disagree, that's no reason not to say thank you for being here and showing concern for what's been done and what's going to happen. That's why I want to say that the National Assembly, at least from their heads, did not shut up or disabling any state of emergency, but those who boycotted it. All this time, the National Assembly for part of the opposition simply didn't exist, it didn't work. No virus needed, no emergency was required, they simply refused to be part of the National Assembly, refused to participate in the work of the National Assembly, refused to address their voters by means of this high pay phone. There's no blame for the government or for the president of the Wolf. It's a decision, it's a choice for which a political price is paid, and that price is paid in front of its voters. People who voted for certain political parties to represent them lost their representatives because they decided not because of the state of emergency, not because of Kovid, not because of whose decision, except for those political parties and those people. So no one disbanded or humiliated the National Assembly on the contrary. If you couldn't hear the voice of the opposition's actions, it's their decision, as is the decision now. Why aren't they here now, why don't they say all that now, instead of holding press conferences? I don't agree there were any functional campaigns. I'm sorry, if President Vukic hadn't been to all these places, we'd be listening to criticism about how he locked himself up, shut down, not knowing what was going on with the people, how he cared about himself, how he didn't care about the common man. President Vukic has provided more respirators in a few weeks than any previous government since 2000. Why can't we just admit it and say it? We say everything else is wrong with you, but you did it, and that's the way it is. And it's a good thing you were with your people, because in times of crisis you should be with your people. That's why the president of Serbia, that's why they chose him. If I hadn't been to every place where the Serbian Army was engaged, I'd have listened to me being a cabinet, not being interested in a regular soldier, not knowing what was going on with him. Of course I need to be there and of course I need to be in every place where someone from my restaurant is, and the President of the Republic is with the entire people and wherever it is necessary. You know, we've been listening and listening to how many times and how many times President Vukic's family has been attacked. When his son got sick, no one said -- that kid got sick because he was handing out packages to the pensioners, because he was a volunteer, because he was a volunteer, because he wanted to help, and they were already going right away with the delinquent comments. When he went to be treated where the doctors told him, not his father, I didn't read the doctors anywhere, we read through the papers and sent him to Alexander. He didn't send anyone. Doctors, the profession decided where to go, like all other citizens of Serbia. Then we suffered attacks, then he suffered attacks and because his son is being treated where all Serbian citizens are being treated. I'm only talking here about having to have a bar, as far as possible, so politics doesn't fool us into it, a unique and realistic criterion, at least when these are the hardest and most difficult times, so that what we'd put in for ourselves is a credit to others. What we would criticise with ourselves, to criticize others as well. As far as donations are concerned, it will be more than transparent, and it is transparent. After all, as for the Ministry of Defense, go to our site, everything we've ever received, we put on our website, with great gratitude for what we've received, proud of what we've received, infinitely proud and infinitely grateful to each of these people. So anyway, thank you for being in parliament. You need your criticism, and it's good to be exposed. And what I ask is that we lead the political debate to think about the moment we are in and never let politics seduce us to do or say something that can affect people to endanger their health or threaten their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73525	Minister Lonchar has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73526	Mr. Marco, you said the measurements weren't easy. Of course they weren't easy, but they were successful. I don't think we can have a dilemma about it, no matter how different we are about some other things. You had an objection why we didn't consult politically, about the scale, about everything. For a very simple reason, because we couldn't get the expert opinions we got from the profession and that we respected. I don't think it would have any effect. So that's pretty clear. It approached the things that would result, which would save people's lives, and we asked those who trained for it and who did it and who did it. I hope you don't mind, because it's simply the people we have the most professional in Serbia at this point. I have not heard that anyone has said, and you have not asked this one of the professions, which you have not asked the one of the professions. I think we've respected them all, I think we've asked them all, and you've had the opportunity to hear from them themselves that they've never been so respected before and that their opinion has not been heard, and not just heard, but that their opinion and their attitudes have not been carried out. So, we're talking about the most open, we're talking about facts. We can talk about it here as much as we can, because I really think this is where we need to report and say what we did, how we did, and what the results were. You have a grudge as to how it reacted. I hope everyone saw, as they did, Corona didn't announce herself, not just to us, she didn't announce herself to the whole world. Corona wasn't just our problem, that he only came to Serbia, that he went around someone else. The problem is global. Would this problem be quicker and better resolved if all the countries had united, at least in Europe, where we belong, if we had moved, what we had proposed, which was all documented, where we had proposed from the very beginning to sit down, that there was no real difference whether or not one of us was an EU member, whether or not it was a member of something else, that this virus knew the limits, that we knew little about this virus, that if we all sat together, that we could react better, that we could organize better and that we had a better result. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer, or we didn't have a result. It didn't move, as you know, to be done. Why? It is likely that the analysis will determine everything and I am sure that in the future, when such things happen, that at that level they will react differently, that they will unite, that they will sit down, and that conclusions will be made that will apply to all. They all have to understand, it doesn't mean anything for you to take one country and do it maximum, that the citizens are responsible, that they're concentrated, that they respect everything, and that you have within your borders, that you don't have any positive ones, but how much can you hold it? Until the first opening of the borders, it means that someone enters your country, or someone comes out and comes back. Everything you've done falls into the water. For this reason, we have proposed that all countries in Europe respond together, have similar or the same principles as they will. The result you know. We're all alone. We had to work on ourselves. That's what we did. As far as the results are concerned, absolutely agreed, what we've told you, it's just a cross-section, a cross-section on today. There'll be a second tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. A real analysis of what we've done, what others have done, don't expect to be in the next year, because so much minimum is needed to look at everything. It's a lot of parameters. You have to take an average of the previous years, how many people were affected by seasonal flu, some other disease, how many people died, how many people were hospitalized, how many people were vaccinated, and only then, plus all those things that happened today. So, a minimum of a year. What happened, since the situation is what it is, I think it will take a bigger period of time and it will take years for some of us to come with a real and concrete result. So, to be clear, we're just cutting you off on today. We don't brag, we don't complain. We're proud of it, we're proud of what we've done so far, and I think we've saved a lot of, a lot of human lives, which was our primary goal. As for panic, if there were any stampedes, I don't think we can really say it, if we're still responsible people, because we can compare it to some other countries, where we've seen what it looked like in shops and hospitals, and in other institutions, and on the street, in the extreme case, what they looked like, the deserted shops, what they looked like, what hospitals looked like with patients in the hallway, what they looked like in those rooms or what they were called dead. Is that a threat to someone if you show them what it looks like a couple hundred or a few thousand miles from us. Is that a threat, if you show a system that was a role model in Europe and the world until yesterday, which has been evaluated and whatever is better and more advanced than our system, than the health system. I don't really consider it a threat. I think it's real information and our citizens need to know what examples there are and what's going on somewhere. I don't think we really should have been hiding it. I don't take it at all as a threat, not as a panic, but as one real notification of our citizens what happens and where it happens and that we don't want it to happen to us. That's why I can't accept it, it's a big insult to me and to all health care professionals, when you say it was only luck that our health system didn't crack. Could anyone else in Serbia believe in Santa Claus and in luck that these things happened, that the health system didn't crack with mere luck. I ask you not to say it again, for it is a great insult to health workers, to those whom you have commended afterwards, and who, while we sit here and debate, are doing. Would the health system, say, that we inherited, that I inherited when I came as a minister, with the resources that he had, that we don't list now, that some campaign doesn't turn out again, something boasts, from the hospital, from the apparatus, from the medical staff, from the specialization, from everything, how long would it take, and would that system have any luck not to crack and survive this? You do your own analysis and say, compare that data from earlier and this data from now on. In what capacity did this system meet this epidemic, or pandemic? As far as the gerontological centers are concerned, yes, the problem has happened everywhere in the world, and it's no excuse. Is there going to be an analysis? Absolutely, it's already done. Are we going to do an analysis now or are we going to save those people who are there? Now, we're going to save those people who are there, to save that human life and every user and every employee in it, and for analysis, we're going to have time and, of course, everyone is going to be sanctioned for all the failures they've made. Is it a problem or a campaign if people do their job? I really don't think it'd be fair to say that it's a campaign, that you go around and threatened areas, that you tour these crisis headquarters, that you visit these people, that you go around everything. I think anyone would do that. And if you were in our place, I don't think you'd be sitting at home or in your office without going to do it. Okay, I can understand, that's a nice thing to say right now, but it's correct and meet in that situation and say what would be done if you were in a place like this at this time when it happened. I'm sure they wouldn't sit back and watch from the office or on TV. I hope I've been able to answer you most of the time. We're here for every dilemma. If I skipped something, if I didn't remember something, say, I want you to argue first because of our healthcare workers, because of people who are now struggling to save those people who are on the respirator, who are in intensive care and everything. If we can appeal together, because we're not done with this story, no one will benefit from any bickering. We'll just benefit from being disciplined and able to be responsible and do everything we can to keep this virus from spreading, from getting more and more sick and from ending people in the hospital and on the respirator. I just remind you that today is our most important thing, not something else. I would ask, not just you, but all those who have any influence to have in mind, because that's the only thing that can allow us all to be in this number tomorrow, to be alive and healthy tomorrow and to run the controversy and to do analysis on all these topics that are interested and to have the exact results of what we've done and how we've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73527	The word is Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73528	Thank you. One of the biggest grudges in today's session is that there are no reports, not even this preliminary report. We have a law to confirm the regulation, or first we have to decide, but also to confirm the introduction of an emergency. Now you said, Minister, we need to talk about what was done. Except for the oral report at the beginning, Prime Minister, we didn't get the report, and that's the problem. This parliament had to do it all for a month and a half. You objected to the EU's behaviour when you couldn't all sit together and make an agreement on the fight against the coronary virus, but neither did we in Serbia all. This is where we were supposed to talk, not about professional stuff, but about things that concerned the suspension of human rights because this is the only place we can talk about it. If the profession suggests and we have heard this repeatedly, the ban on contact should be reduced to the number of contacts, and that the best measure is the ban on movement, then I am sorry, this measure of banning movement under our Constitution and the law can only be passed by parliament or as we have so far, so that Parliament subsequently confirms it. But my argument is that because of this you had no understanding and support of all Serbian citizens and that it was a failure. I said, fortunately, there was no virus in the health system and the health system was maintained. Not fortunately, but fortunately, by the knowledge and persuasion of the people and what the ministry did and you and all the employees. But unfortunately, he entered "The People's Front", entered the clinic "Dedinje", "Laza Lazarevic", Institute of Oncology, somewhere he entered. When are we gonna talk about this?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73529	Thank you. Let me see who answered. Minister to respond, you have two minutes of replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73530	Let me get this straight. So, our demand for Europe, to the EU, whether it is a profession, to have the most professional people from these countries sit down and make a deal. So it has nothing to do with politics, European Commissions, Parliament or anything. So that's what this is about. The other thing, you entered the health system you said, here's a report of the second, 520 on today, now as we speak 524 healthcare professionals is positive. It's 6.33% of the total number positive for the Coronal virus, which is 0.45% for all health care employees who are currently over 114,000. So here's the direct information. You listed oncology, and what information did we hide? Here's the information for oncology, now. Ninety-seven employees, tested 445, positive 67, so we're the most open with every data we've come out. So that's the latest data, most of them cured. What happened? What was our goal? That the system disappears, because if you stop the system or oncology or "The People's Front" or some other one, you don't have treatment. In oncology, patients with malignancies can't irradiate, there can't be chemotherapy. Did we do everything we could to reorganize the system and make it go away? Yeah, we did. Did you have one patient who didn't get the therapy he was supposed to get? Did you have a pregnant woman that didn't have a family for a reason because one of the health workers was positive, he couldn't come? Say, please, one single example. I'm giving you all the information you asked for. Of course you'll get absolutely all the data, but you need to know that this is still going on, that the data is changing from minute to minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73531	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73532	Just for a little while. I've listed several health care institutions of the Minister and I didn't say you were hiding anything. I've listed several institutions where, and you've confirmed it yourself, providing the first data on the total number of infected healthcare workers that I don't know how many, 0.4% of you said and infected only at the Institute of Oncology, where if you tested 400 out of 900 employees, 61 is infected, that's 6.5%, 7% only at the Institute of Oncology. It means that not all health institutions have done the same. There was talk of not being allowed to use protective equipment by the director in the People's Front at the beginning of the epidemic. Is that why one of the health workers got sick? We should look into that in the next period. Did everyone do everything on time? If you look at it, I've listed four institutions where it's a few times more diseased than in another one. Whether it's because of the nature of their work or because of something else, it's all supposed to be a matter of analysis, serious analysis and I agree, it couldn't be done until today, not for today, and it won't be possible in some short time, but we need to do that analysis and most importantly, we need to learn something from that, because this virus is going to be there for a long time and you said and I agree, and God forbid we get hit by a new virus.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73533	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73534	Thank you. I listened to you very carefully, and you've listed a really large number of things and started a number of topics, so it took me some time to systemize it and answer you, because I certainly can't answer every question and every criticism you've ever given me, I'm only going to try to answer the most important ones. First of all, when we say every criticism you've given us, one of the criticisms was that we've shown that we're not open to criticism, that we don't respect criticism and we don't listen to criticism. I'll tell you that's exactly the opposite, we're open for criticism, we're welcome for criticism, especially if it's constructive, if it comes with some kind of solution. What we're not open to, what we're fighting against and what we're going to raise our voices against every time is false news. False news is not a criticism, false news is a dangerous thing that has been repeatedly staged during this crisis, absolutely deliberated by various media, by part of political parties and organizations, and we will fight it. In any case, the criticism is welcome, especially if it is constructive, so it comes with a proposal for a solution. From all the things you've been saying and what you've been criticizing, I have to say that I'm safe, not with intent and not because you wanted to, but in this whole presentation, you commend us and thank you for that. Because in addition to all the criticisms you've given, you've said two things that are extremely important. One of our health systems didn't kneel and as I said, that was our first goal, the goal we put before us in this fight. So we filled it out and thank you for that. The second thing you said was, however, we passed this test. So when you draw a line, that's what we were trying to do, that's what we were working for, that's what we wanted. Is that our fault or is it someone else's credit? You said credit to the citizens themselves. We didn't fight here for credit, we did our job, but obviously we did it. Also, I don't think you did on purpose, but certainly you did, and there's Minister Loncar right, insulted a number of healthcare workers and professions because you said, and look at the record, of course you can apologize if it wasn't an emergency. So the health system didn't go down and we passed the test. The state wasn't ready. I'm telling you, the state was as ready as possible. Is any country in the world fully prepared for something like this? No, I don't. As we've seen, no. Neither the richest societies, nor the most organised states were ready, were less ready than the Republic of Serbia. We were ready because we had in stock protective equipment, not enough certainly for this whole fight against Kovida - 19, but certainly enough to ensure that our healthcare workers, the military and the police were able to work uninterrupted until we got extra supplies. We had resources, or money. For what? Well, because of everything that was done in 2014. And that's why we're gonna end this whole thing, and our public debt won't go above 60% of our GDP. So, we got everything we need, we managed to get the political stuff, we managed financially to secure it, we didn't have any more budget shocks, we kept fiscal discipline and we moved on. So, in that sense, we were ready. We succeeded during the crisis, while we were fighting this monster, to launch additional own production, our own capacities, and for the production of antibodies thanks to our institutes and everything that the Ministry of Education has done with some other ministries and disfissances which, thanks above all to local self-government, I must say, and above all to Sremska Mitrovica and Novi Sad, but we succeeded alone, with our own resources to organize ourselves, we bought machines, we launched the production of domestic protective equipment. We had hospitals ready, and that's what Minister Loncar was talking about. Imagine that in the previous period, serious work, disciplined work and commitment, we did not finish the Nis Clinical Center, that we did not finish Dragisa Misovic? Imagine that our health care was like the moment you were in power, when you left health care in that state? Do you think it would be possible to secure 10,000 beds at that time? Where would they put these people? Then when the health care system went down, they'd probably say, "What are we going to do, we're not lucky." It's not about luck, but if I can afford to give you one piece of advice, in such things, when you have such a responsibility, it's not about luck or accident, it's about knowledge, perseverance, work, uninterrupted work, until you're done. When you say the state wasn't ready, did you see any shortages in stores or drugstores? Have you seen the empty shelves? Did you see at any point during this crisis that there was a toilet paper jag and that people were fighting in shops, as we saw in much richer societies? No, I don't. Why? Because the state has been intensively preparing since February 25th. When you talk about that press conference that you love so much to mention, you sort of selectively decide for yourself to remember, and then you don't remember what preceded that press conference, which is practically the first meeting of the crisis headquarters that called President Alexander Vukic, where the profession gathered and where the plan began. You're talking about one half-word in the press conference after the first meeting of the crisis staff. Yeah, there were different opinions. But that's normal. We have seen different opinions over these two months, diametrically contrary to different relevant organisations, such as the World Health Organization, about this virus, not individual experts. So, the press conference came after the first meeting, the first, practically, preliminary crisis staff with all experts to agree on the plan, while we in Serbia still didn't have the first identified Kovida case - 19. And then you heard the profession, both Dr. Kona and Dr. Nestorovic talking about how worried the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic was, how seriously he took it and that they asked - is it possible that the state thinks this will be to the point seriously? I often think the state took this more seriously than it used to be. You're saying we didn't see a plan and strategy. We saw chaos. I hope you really had the patience to listen to me this morning in my little longer exposure, it was almost an hour, I apologize for that, but there was a report I had to file. I can understand that you failed to listen to me because you can't hold your attention that long because you haven't practiced for some time since you've been boycotting this parliament. Thank you for coming back now, because I think it's important that we all be here together and talk about these things. But exactly in my presentation, I presented our plan, what we did, what we did in phases and how we thought, how it was implemented and what the results were. When you talk about how we've only seen chaos, I'm going to remind you one more time and I'm sure you know that, but I'm sure you're politically avoiding talking about it because it's still popular, even though at this point I don't think particularly well that whatever happens I'm criticizing this government, I think we should be something more objective. In any case, I'm sure you know, for example, that on January 14th, the World Health Organization officially stated that preliminary studies show that there is no clear evidence that this virus can be transmitted from human to human. The World Health Organization said this in January 14. If you take the example of Great Britain, then Great Britain went in 10 days to change the strategy of fighting Kovida-19 which we never did. We have also made clear from day one what our goals are, what we think is a danger, where our greatest challenges will be, how we should fight and why we must be restrictive. In January, the UK government officially said that the new disease, the Kovida-19 virus, is nothing to worry about. In March 13, the government said that they aim to build collective immunity and that they would not introduce restrictive measures, that collective immunity should be built. March 20, so only seven days after that they introduced complete restrictions, only seven days. If you ask me, with all due respect to the UK, it's a great honor indeed for everything they've done in general. We haven't seen such things in the Republic of Serbia. We did not go from that – let's build collective immunity to that – let's have restrictive measures. From the beginning, we talked about the great dangers, the great preparations, the need for large investments, additional equipment and medical devices, and that we would fight and that the fight would have to be the most serious thing we've done since World War II. Nine days later, Italy had 233 dead and over 5,000, nearly 6,000 patients, and on March 10th, the whole country was in a "lockdown", completely locked, so full restrictive measures, a ban on movement. So I think you're using this in an unfair way to talk about the chaos that you don't see, in fact, that the whole world has been much, much more chaos than it has been in the Republic of Serbia, and even by the World Health Organization. The Republic of Serbia has always had a clear plan, it has always communicated equally, whether everyone has always said the same thing by individuals, professions, no, and they differed in their opinions, but as far as how we all acted together as a state, then there was absolutely no confusion, and from the beginning we knew how to deal with this, or how to fight this. I'll end up here so I don't take extra time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73535	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73536	Thank you. Given that, in the presentation we heard from the honourable MP, it was part of the economics and economics, I feel invited to make my comment and answer that. I'm glad to see you here in Parliament. What you don't know, probably, because you weren't here, we all spent three weeks together in November, discussing and considering the 2020 budget. So, most transparently possible, we have entered every detail and that is how we are used to working as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and those MPs who contribute to the growth and development of our country. Unfortunately, you weren't there, and the reason now that the budget rebalance is ahead of you is the state of emergency, COVID-19 or Corona virus, and the reason that we move forward with the payment of certain commitments that we have made in this programme of economic measures, which I hope is also your interest, and there is no change in budget rebalancing compared to the initial budget without referring to the application of the measures aimed at reducing the negative consequence of COVID-19. As far as the measures are concerned, they are strong, strong, comprehensive, and neither you nor I have heard any serious arguments against this programme of economic measures. I'm going to ask you, if you have any suggestions or comments tell me, are you in favour of not delaying the payment of taxes and contributions to businesses and our business entities? Are you in favour of not paying off three minimum earnings to all those companies in the private sector, especially entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises? Are you in favour of not having a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for two billion euros in liquidity loans and the crafts assets that the state guarantees, so that these companies in the private sector could exploit them? Are you against it or that the Fund for Development also with cheap loans, an interest rate of 1% helps all of our business entities who have a problem with business and which is caused by COVID-19? So, a very serious, very comprehensive program and exactly the result of this program is that you have at the Bureau or at the Employment Service, this is new data for today, 6,047 reported for cash compensation. After all these measures and the worst economic crisis the world has faced in the last 100 years, you have something over 6,000 people back at the Employment Service. The great success that has achieved the goal, which we have defined, is to preserve the degree of employment achieved and help to those who need our help most. In this regard, when it comes to the implementation of the measures, honourable MPs, they are already being implemented and implemented for a month and a half. The first measure, I'll remind you, was a moratorium to pay for the loan. As of 16 March this year, the companies that chose this do not pay the loans, the principal on the loans they took. The measure we have promised and which we have also fulfilled as a measure of support for our oldest citizens, 4,000 dinars of one-time assistance. We promised in March, we paid off on April 10th. Are you, honourable MP, against all health workers increasing salaries by 10%, as we have done, because it's part of our economic measures, to give these people who are our heroes and who are every night fighting this invisible enemy, to give them support and to say, here's how much we can separate from the budget and that's 10% of the salary. The payment for that higher salary was already received in April. If you're against it, make it clear. Are you opposed to providing an extra 2.6 billion dinar for farmers? Now, these are our measures, economic support measures, and that leads me to a hundred-euro measure that you have criticised. I think as an economist, the measure that implies that all of the full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who want and who need it, are paid 100 euros, are absolutely economically justified, for a few reasons. So it's part of a comprehensive economic package. We help the economy through the delay in paying taxes and contributions. We're helping the economy through minimum wage payments. So we also help employees in the economy. We help businesses through a guarantee scheme and through business banks, but we help both citizens directly and economically, and that measure is completely economically justified. He left as you saw two weeks ago and Japan. So the third economy of the world to apply it. The United States is also applying the economy. I am glad that Serbia can apply economic measures that apply the world's strongest economic forces. Well, if they do, I guess there's a reason why we do, which is to increase demand. So that the money citizens get helps them buy the goods they need. That good, those products will be bought in stores. The state goes to some VAT, on the other hand your products are sold. The simple production is moving, the factories are moving, and that's exactly the goal of these economic measures. You said - I don't understand logic, I have to admit why those who don't want that help don't apply to those measures. I don't know what that would look like. The ones who don't want to say it, here's our account number in the bank we don't want you to pay us money on. I don't see that making any sense. So, those who want to give their account number. It's very simple, it takes a whole procedure under one minute and they get that money from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now, if you'll allow me, I'll read, I may need 30 seconds and quote an interview of a person from December 2010. He says this, quote -- I had an additional political reason why I did it. The second round of presidential elections was held at which I did not participate, but rather the man I supported, Boris Tadic. It was very close, I thought, if I did, it could help him win the election. He literally won the election for 100,000 votes. When later agencies were doing research on the basis of which people were defined to vote in the second round, vote for it, one significant part said, due to free actions. So, I know I made a mistake and I hurt myself, but I'm happy Boris beat Tom Nikolic. This says the end of the quote, Mladjan Dinkic, to support the presidential elections he won from Boris Tadic. Dear MPs, this empty promise of a thousand euros has nothing to do with 100 euros that are part of the precise, responsible, economic measures and unlike this empty promise that served for political purposes, we will start paying off these 100 euros as early as May 15th this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73537	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic, and then the right to the replica of MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73538	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, the respected ones who follow this transmission by small screens, I just want to say a few things, first of all, for the sake of the public. I show respect for today's presence in the session, in criticism, and I'm going to be critical of every word that's been said to try to answer the facts from one angle that may be specific, but rather specific, because it was about things that literally happened from minute to minute. I leave it at your attention, the will of all of you to assess the justification of certain activities of all the actors present, regardless of whether this is about, as I say conditionally, the Health Services, the Crisis Headquarters or the Economic Crisis Headquarters. After every battle, and I must say that we have won several battles, conditionally so to say, you may not like that termology, but this war has not yet been won. There's more, more battles will be, but after each battle, it's always easy to be a general. It's easy to be a general for one simple reason because you're looking at it from a certain time distance and you don't have to have any subjective relationship at that moment when you're trying to solve the problem. The fact is that we, all in Serbia and also in Europe met there in February of the month, just as the Prime Minister said earlier, with a huge amount of information changing from day to day. First of all, I mean the World Health Organization's views and that what we know today about this virus, compared to what we knew two months ago, it's probably heaven and earth. Please consider these objective things in each analysis. If we knew then, what we know now, maybe some things through time flow would be faster or slower, and above all I think about getting all the necessary material you need to fight. Don't forget that at one point we had to produce alcohol that wasn't there, because they were closed borders, literally every border closed. Yes, the goods did, but no one will sell them to you. Then you get into a situation where you need to get these big health centers for clinical centres to produce alcohol. We did this in Župa in Aleksandrovac for the first time until mass production started in Red. On the other hand, we had another limiting thing in the whole story, and it was just before Minister Vulin talked about it, about this famous sodium hypochlorite. It's a disinfectant mostly imported from abroad. It has brought time for liberal capitalism, that simply everything someone thinks you shouldn't produce, you import it. But when the pain comes, then there's no choice, then you get in the ring, so what the hell? So let's solve that disinfectant. Next thing I want to say, it's about the profession. I've worked with all these people together with my colleagues all these 60 days as long as there are already more. I would like to pay particular respects to these people and epidemiologists and pulmulologists and infectologists who were at this headquarters and who were at this special headquarters for Nisavski County and Toplički County, and also to Dr. Pelemis who, because of his age, could not be actively involved, but he was helping the whole story with his advice all the time. What happened, for example in 2009, after the bird flu and after that story? It's just that she got the waist, so to speak, conditionally on her nose. And she wasn't respected at all that moment. It's only here every single time and I'm always ready to stop and whenever we make any decision, whether collective, individual, it's always been the profession that determined what it was going to be. That is why I am particularly grateful, especially in Nis and Professor Tiodorović and Professor Korać and Professor Kisic. There's one thing that happened in the meantime. You remember after two weeks, I think it's the first or second weekend when the state of emergency was introduced. We had a short period of time, I think a limited time of movement was introduced Saturday morning or Sunday morning. What happened to us on Saturday on the streets of Belgrade? Mass movement. That was just amazing. I'm not from Belgrade. That park over there by Ustasha, that's the walkway right next to the Danube, that was just amazing. Exactly what you just said, that social distance was necessary to us. And social distances have no other way than restrictions on movement. There's an alternative method, and it's to be conscious on such a high level that everyone decides on it himself. You estimate for yourself whether it was real? If we left six hours in the afternoon so that it could move, that it could be an open space to move, and you all go out on the street, then there's no choice. As a result, there was a later extension of that time limit. One more thing I have to say, too, and get back to that Nis. You people, or all of us together at 12:00, literally had 200 patients from the Social Protection Institute, regardless of whether it was a Gerontological Centre, so to speak conditionally, whose founder of state or private Gerontology Centre is "Esculab" or even smaller small individual cases, at 12:00 we had those persons from the social protection facility transferred to the Clinical Center of Nis. Nis Clinical Center is a social security facility that provides health care services. Imagine when one of those 200 people, which you have to do so quickly, and I am most grateful for the emergency aid in Nis, which she responded so quickly, it's impossible to transfer. Anyone living in a small town knows what hospital facilities are in any smaller city. It's like you packed one hospital into another. If it hadn't been for a clinic in Nis before, when it opened, last year or when, if it hadn't been, if it hadn't been for the Ministry of Health with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did you people know what would have happened in Nis? We had one resource that was available to us, we had the knowledge of health workers, we had one thing that was extremely unfavourable at that time, that is the irresponsibility of individuals who, despite all the instructions and despite all the warnings, acted so in these gerontological centers and had to react pro-problemly. That's why the government changed one thing at that point and made a special crisis staff for those two districts, because there was a threat of serious problems. These people in Nis were doing their job. I'm particularly grateful to all of them there, but what Goldibor said just before, they did their job, they didn't have time for that job to communicate all that, to show the public, which sometimes is a real problem first of all because people are scared and it starts to happen completely unplanned situation. It also happened on the case in Negotin, the same thing, I'm speaking from the aspect of the Gerontological Center, not from the aspect of communication, so we had to put things in place very quickly, even though people did their job pretty well. Just for your information, 1070 people in Nis were in temporary hospitals, the number of persons in four temporary hospitals, the number of persons in one moment at the Nis Clinical Center was such that we had only 70 single beds. That's the blow when he was. If there was an even bigger blow, but don't forget, the Nis are all under Kragujevac, it's gravitating, now that I'm not bidding, but at least 2.5 million people, there's Leskovac, Zaječar, Vranje and Kruševac, and try to figure out what the pressure is. As a result, in the meantime, the rules of the COVID hospital and in Leskovac, made in Soko Banja, had these four temporary hospitals, but it couldn't be, simply, a question of resources everywhere. Guys, we don't have six million doctors, I wish we had, I wish we had specializations in 2004, 2005, 2008 and not that people with a 9.80 average leave the country because they couldn't get specialization, so for years it was, until the man who has government support for that, who sits behind me, solved that thing. Guys, this isn't a game thing at all. We epidemiologists don't have as much as we need. Well, the last epidemic was in 1972, when it was Variola's faith. The only thing he remembers is Professor Pelemish in full capacity, and I often identify it with the situation that was in our 2014 floods, when it was also a very small number of people who remembered it and only the waist saved the whole thing. We are all here to be logistics, to provide the necessary material resources to make it all work. One more thing, not wanting to take too much time, we need to realize that we with three tools in this battle are taking part in these wars. One tool is that social distance. The other tool is mass disinfection. This disinfection, in fact, separates those who have been infected by those who are healthy and therefore I am grateful to the ABHO of our army and the armed forces of Russia. My people, in Nis, we had to disinfect both the gerontological center and the health center and the emergency room and the Esculap and the streets, and I don't know what else to do anymore, to set up those temporary hospitals that were. People, there were so many temporary hospitals in Nis, there weren't so many temporary hospitals in any city, but it's because of this amount of people. We've already put two of them on the stand, both the Chair and the House of Students. All that remains now is the "Student Center" and this special hospital, Radan, which serves soldiers, police officers and health workers. On top of that, the military hospital has accepted civilians. I want to show you how much that diapazon activity actually had to apply in one small space. One of the most important things that often happens now that time has passed, and today I'm not sure, I haven't seen a press conference, I think today was close to 6,000 tests. Five and a half thousand. Guys, one of the tools, I'm saying the terms, I'm cartooning, don't, I'm not a doctor, I just know what we need, I learned through this job as some kind of logical thing, that testing saved our heads. That test, to help epidemiologists, to sort out positive contacts and quickly do it, and whenever we were able to do it, we made a clear pocket between those two populations. These tests without the support of Chinese friends, without this donation, you asked about donations, without these two donations with the "Fire Eye" in Belgrade and Nis, plus, people, we had 36 hours to repack veterinary institutes, and someone was going to ask the question -- where are all those veterinary institutes in the whole film, is that applicable to people? Of course, we all have the same equipment. They work with viruses and veterinary institutes. And when they work with food, they work with viruses, it's just a question of what kind of virus it is. I'm proud of one thing -- this government's been applying so-called the whole time. Gold standard in testing. It's a standard that's been recognised all over the world, it's this PCR method that, in fact, there's nothing to object to. It's not a quick test. Some countries only did fast tests. They didn't do this, if they didn't have equipment, capacities or anything, but if we hadn't done all these things and all these activities, I just don't know what we were talking about today, except that we could all say that this virus is so destructive, and we've managed to defend ourselves so far, and this thing about reports and other things, there's data for every single thing, and it's no problem, but, of course, it's going to be handed over by a person who manages the whole process. The least of it is, I have this data and now, but these things change from minute to minute. Do you know that at this point, of 224 faces at the gerontological center, 120 faces were immobilized. They're not people who are vital. They're from the nursing home transferred. You had to repack the whole story in two minutes and then come to Nis and say, "Someone didn't drink and eat for six days." I say, Lord God. There's not three, six hours since they got here, and the medical staff gave them all the help, and the one that's a social service, and not just a health care service, and then they show up, and these women drop to the ground, women from preschool who are nurses. They're not who I don't know either. 21 volunteers went in, entered the Corona Zone. They didn't go into the park. Here, these are your facts. I'm sorry if I made it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73539	Right on line, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73540	Unfortunately, in these two minutes, I cannot answer everything said by the Prime Minister and two ministers, but I want to do one more thing again. We need an analysis of everything that's been going on. First thing, I apologize if I said it the way you quoted it. It was a mistake and a lapus. Of course, I didn't think that fortunately our health system lasted, he endured the efforts of health care professionals first. I'm sorry if I said so. I apologize to all of them if they heard it and thought I didn't respect everything they did. We need an analysis, and I would just like that analysis to be based on a sentence said by the health minister, which I will supplement to make that analysis quality. The minister said we saved a lot of lives. I agree, but that analysis takes a second part of that sentence -- did we save all the lives we could save? I think we need to have that question when we're doing an analysis. Yeah, a lot of lives were saved, and did we manage to save everyone? What the finance minister was saying about the measures, how the last budget was adopted, did not say that the budget was adopted in 2018, 2017 or 2016, but that is certainly not the subject. Unfortunately, by quoting a statement of nine, ten years ago, the minister made this measure clear to help all 100-euro full-time citizens in the pre-election context, and it is clear now that if someone had any dilemma after the minister's statement that the measure was a purely pre-election measure, this authority would provide as many votes as possible in the upcoming elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73541	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in the sixth hour of our debate, which is very broad. I'm gonna throw away some things I wrote down, for the simple reason it's said, but I still want to say a few elements. First, Serbia has the biggest challenge, the biggest crisis since World War II, but not only Serbia, but the whole world, but Serbia has found the answer to the crisis. I don't like the word "crisis." I prefer the word "dare" because the challenge means finding a solution. Has Serbia found a solution in the fight against this invisible enemy – Coronavirus-19? Yes, it is. That's what today's numbers show. Please, we have today, compared to the number tested, the number positive 4.07. Of the 5.446 tested, 222 positive. Those are the numbers that encourage us. These are the numbers they say – yes, we have chosen a good path and we have to move on that way. We can't stop, because if we stop, it can happen again to us that what we've been experiencing. Are the measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or were the measures strict, restrictive? They did. That's what we have to say clearly and openly. Did they give the results? They did. Why? Well, the number of people who have lost their lives, and life is the most important thing, and that's why every healthcare worker fights today in hospitals and in other hospitals. That's what every soldier who protects a social institution and a hospital is fighting for. That's what every salesman on the street, every cleaning lady in the hospital, or anywhere, is fighting to defeat this invisible enemy, named Coronavirus-19. Someone says human rights have been abolished. We often tend to talk about human rights. For me, human rights cease when it comes to human life. And to keep from talking, I'm going to quote a politician, "Politicals", who said, "Better to live in quarantine than to die at large." Therefore, the measures we have supported, the measures we've taken, the results, but we have to be careful, it can't, can't be repeated, we can't be easily relieved. Please, it takes patience, it needs perseverance. I know that our friends from China, who helped us in professional advice, in the material and in the experience they had, are different from us, you know, the Chinese are a disciplined people. We don't think there's anything we can do, that we're stronger than anything. No, I don't. We must be careful, slowly get out of this situation, because the war has not yet been won. It lasts and it will still last until we have no sick or positive. I'm following those numbers, and that's ultimately my profession. The moment I see that there are far fewer people in hospitals than those who have recovered, it is now 2.517, seven, eight days ago there were 3,700 in hospitals. That's one big step forward. You know, our health system is currently focused only on Kovid-19. People are in pain, they were in pain, but our system is currently slowed down. We must help with our discipline, our behavior, to restore the health system to the level that was before Corona 19. He will certainly succeed, and we must keep that in mind. You know, it might sound kind of weird, but keep yourself safe to look after others. That's what we have to keep in mind, because it's the only way we can beat this enemy, who's not visible, but he's very dangerous. I welcome the fact that this crisis has revealed many good things to us, but also many bad things. I'll say the first thing that's good. It's good, you know, we rely on our own forces. That means -- we make drugs, we make equipment, we make our own food, and there's an advantage, the Minister of Agriculture knows that food is something that is our resource, and we have to keep developing it. One more thing, we rely on our own tourism, that means our own country. We've got a lot to take care of, because probably after Kovid-19, the world won't be the same as it was before, there won't be any more globalisation, I won't be on a plane, so I'll be in New York in no time, and tomorrow I'll be in Bangkok. There's no more of that. Let's get to know our places, our country, let's live locally, let's think globally, which would often be spoken of. I'm also saying this because, you know, it's revealed other things. I'm going to talk a little bit about weaknesses. You see, it clearly shows that the state must have quality health care. I also ask the Minister of Health - and where are the private clinics, where are the private hospitals, where are the people who work in these hospitals? I don't have that information, maybe you do, so I'd like you to give it to us. But I insist, and I keep saying, that the state, the serious state, must have good health care, good schooling, available to everyone. There was talk here, you know, that in the west you can't heal. You can't. I know that in America, I was in a public hospital where those who don't have insurance, so there were huge rows, people lying in the halls, no one looking at them. If you have money, you go to the best hospitals. As Social Democrats, I insist that we be a social state, which means that health, education, is available to every individual. Another question, again for the Minister of Health, the gerontological centers, social institutions, what are the standards? How can people come in? I was most startled by the fact that some of the hostels were holding people who were at age. Is that possible in the state of Serbia? In conclusion, if we're making a state, we have to make it serious, we have to make it a way that anyone who does, really, was a private, was a state, has to respect the standards. We can't, and we can't play by standards, because disrespect for the rules leads to these situations where we are. There's something else I want to say. You know, the pandemic lasts, and if it lasts, let's not fire easily. May 1st, so it's not like we're such a rich company that we can't wait to spend money on cafes, restaurants, barbecue around Fruszko Gora, and I don't know where, and so far we're complaining about being a poor country, and now we can't wait to get into a situation to spend money. Well, wait, that doesn't make any sense. Something's wrong. Something's not right. Why am I saying this? Well, it's impossible, my people. Is it hard to be patient and endure this May 1st? After that, and I see already the Crisis Staff has given concrete measures, but without these measures, these concrete loose measures, that we must have a mask, we must have gloves. Yeah, I'm a guy with 65 plus, and I know what that means, and I know I might have to take care of myself by the end of the year and everything that's going on here. There was also talk of economic measures here. I must say, I welcome the economic measures, we are among the first countries to bring these economic measures, the measures that have been praised by both the IMF and all relevant international factors, and even the Fiscal Council has greatly praised these measures. Are all these measures consistent, are they the best, it's hard to say at this point, but they're good. What's the result? We don't have people firings. People aren't in a situation where they have nothing to live on. We help with these minimum salaries, help with the possibilities for contributions and taxes to be paid somewhere in January 2021. So we allow people to survive. Guys, this is a period of survival, and I think that's where we gave the right answer. Next, we're in a big crisis, and do we have a shortage of goods? Do we have any problems? Now at first we have to be open. There were problems with both masks and gloves, etc. And we say, yes, the state is responsible that it wasn't. You know, I knew about the Coronal virus at the end of December and January. And why didn't I buy gloves and masks and alcohol? When Italy was already, and we all knew it, and none of us bought it, and we all expect the state to buy it for us. Well, country, that's us. The state, it's us, which means Serbian citizens. Our representatives we choose, the citizens who choose us here in parliament, and we choose the government, we do jobs on behalf of them. They judge us. They'll tell us about us in the election. I'm absolutely sure we'll have a positive opinion. I read some research, read this morning that 92% of Serbian citizens have confidence in the measures the government has taken. Excuse me, that's a very high percentage. That's very important. One more thing, and I want to commend it. The waist here led the main word, the waist. What's the task of politics? The task of politics is to create conditions that the waist can work. That's what we had. That's why we have these results. So I ask that in the end I say a few more words, which is – don't let us gamble these results. You know, Dobrica Cosic said – Serbia wins the war and loses in peace. Don't let it go. Let's be patient. Slowly, patiently move forward. We'll get what we need. I must say immediately that the SDPS parliamentary group will support all decisions that will be on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73543	The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73544	Thank you for your words and thank you for your support. I'll just take a minute. Thank you for warning us all again and all the citizens not to relax. I really think at this point it's crucial. Don't let us declare victory too quickly. I've heard it several times at Dr. Srdja Jankovic's Crisis headquarters, which says, too soon, victory has been won, so I've said just a few times today just a little more to abstain. Today we've had a positive number of very good results. First time under 5%. We've had 5,446 tests processed, 222 people confirmed positive, so 4,07%. A very good result, the best so far, but we have to have this continuously for a few days to know that it's really going a little bit better again. We stagnated for a few days to 6%. This morning, President Vukic called a meeting of both crisis staff and we discussed these additional measures of relaxation, but indeed with all the maximum precautions. That is why we also proposed to the National Assembly that it be a movement ban for May 1st. If we see that we have this trend, it's just to stay and see if it stays that way or if we can loosen it up a little bit. Again, thank you and indeed another appeal, a request for all citizens to endure a little more. If we keep this up, we're at the end, we understand really everybody from the government, we understand how hard it is, we understand how nervous people are already, but it's really necessary to have a little more discipline to win this. As for employment, just another brief explanation that can lead to a certain confusion of people, so let's explain right away. So the minister and I mentioned different numbers. I said some number of 2,032 people less employed, the minister spoke about 5,800. More specifically today, 6,047 people have applied to the National Employment Service for monetary compensation since the start of the emergency. What's the difference between those two numbers? I'm talking about total numbers, and here we're talking about the numbers of people who lost their jobs, so they applied for compensation. So, in some sectors, employment has dropped, but in some sectors new employment has occurred. That's why the total number is smaller. For example, the largest drop in the number of jobs has been in the housing and food services sector, for example, from the end of February to the beginning of April there has been a drop of 4,066, so the trade in large and small and repair of motor vehicles has fallen since the beginning of April 1,601, but therefore we have growth recorded in the information and communication technologies sector of 3.667 and growth, which we are particularly looking forward to, I think, in the processing industry of 3,419 jobs. I was talking about absolute numbers of employment, and so far we have some 6,047 people who have lost their jobs and applied for compensation to the National Employment Service, but I'm sure that as we give in to the measures, with all the prevention measures, and how the economy is starting to work again, we're going to have better growth than we expect at this point. Not only will these people have their jobs back, but I hope that a large number of people who have really come from abroad, which is about 400,000 people, will choose to stay in Serbia and work here, because they have seen that this is not so great and wonderful, that when the crisis starts, you lose your job easily abroad, you are among the first ones who lose your job, you have no health insurance, you have no security, you have no home, you have no family as support, and yet in Serbia it is better. It will be up to us to open these jobs together with our economy and to leave as many of these people in Serbia as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73545	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73546	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Brnabic, dear ministers, we've seen each other now, but it would have been better if we'd seen each other a month and a half ago. I must say, for me, there was no doubt that I would attend this session. I'm saying, I'm sorry it wasn't before. I express my sincere regret that part of the opposition's colleagues has not otherwise assessed this situation. That's where we'll agree. There are other things we won't agree on. I think it would be very important to hear their grudges and objections. Some would agree. Most of them probably wouldn't, but it's important to talk, and it's poremising, of course, within the limits of elemental jurisdiction and communication. There was a time when that was missing in this. We've mostly communicated politely, though unfairly, because you've always had more time, much more time. There is no dilemma that this is a place, and here I agree with what other colleagues have said, mostly on the opposition side, and some of you from the government, where such dialogues and such discussions should be conducted. This is the place where an emergency decision has to be made, if deemed necessary. This is an institution. The government's regulation cannot be older than the most important democratic institution of representative democracy. That's what some others told you here, on the left and on the right, sitting. No matter how much we agree that the final word will be given by the Constitutional Court, I think that at least some dilemmas would be avoided, at least some controversy, I stress, was avoided in this way that the assembly in the tide, of course with those who wish to participate in it, made that decision. Now some will say, from the ranks of the government and the ranks of the opposition, so what does that have to do with the relationship of power, you know who has an absolute majority in the Assembly, and that decision would certainly be made one way or another. It's not the same. The form is important and the procedures are important and it is very important, precisely because of the symbolic, political and democratic moment and the capacity of this society, which is not sufficient and satisfactory, that we agree, that we cultivate institutions, even when they are not perfect. Some likely close authorities will say that we would make that decision anyway, and some of the opposition will say – what we care, this institution does not exist, it has been abolished and we do not recognise it. I think it's shortsighted, and I emphasized it, often angry and some of my colleagues on this side. The decisions of this congregation are being carried out. The duties that this congregation adopts, the laws that are being passed. Introduced excises are paid. Indemnities are credited to the State. The international agreements if they conclude, which this Assembly ratifys, they are valid. It is not worth going after and explaining that it was not for us and we have not recognised, one of us, one of the MPs, one of the political parties did not recognise that parliament. I mean, we all have to learn procedures and forms, even when we know what that decision would eventually be, and I guess so. I am sure that it would be positive, i.e. to declare to the Assembly the introduction of an emergency. You know, at that point, when it was avoided that the Assembly was declared to introduce a state of emergency, it could have been done in one day at a session like this, even shorter. What would be avoided by that? I think it would be on the one hand to obtain the credibility of these measures, especially if, I say, in their adoption, those who are only when the Assembly is in some way derecognized, then discover that they are missing. So often, we are irritated by the Assembly, especially by some MPs in it, but it is better with the furry democracy and the furry institutions and the imperfect, rather than without democratic institutions. Democracy, like God, everyone remembers in trouble. When she feels strong and powerful then we think it's just a distraction and a slowdown. So, regardless of what the Constitutional Court will say, there is no dilemma for me that the Constitution has been violated and that, despite the fact that there is this exception that it can and without a decision of the National Assembly in some exceptional situations, I do not think that this situation was, because, as I said at the time when the Assembly was decided to bypass, there was a regulation, the government's conclusion on the ban on gathering of 100 or more than 100 people. At this moment as we sit here today, the ban on gathering of more than two people is in force. We could gather together with these or a little less perfect security measures both in this space and at the "Sava Center" or at the fair, with a certain physical distance and adopt what you adopted and all the other or almost all the other parliaments in Europe. So, there is no parliament but the Macedonian parliament, but he is disbanded, he is indeed disbanded, which, if the Constitution provides for it or if the law and the Constitution foresees it, has not stated the introduction of an emergency, or an emergency, and that is something that we need to establish. It's a matter of fact, it's not a matter of whether anyone loves authority, opposition or something else. But here, at least now retroactively, so to me it's a serious failure, a formal one, but not just a formal one, there's something even more important, something you probably won't like. You know, no matter how much I have no doubt at the end, I'm doing these research, and they're more than confirming it, this power or leader of this parliamentary majority have and enjoy majority support, but it's different when something comes to the government or the president, and the second is when the authorised representatives of all citizens stand there, and they are, by definition, sitting in parliament. No matter how much he was, and in my view, it is a controversial percentage that my colleague Mijatovic cited, because there is no measure in Serbia and no question that 92% of Serbian citizens will give a valid answer to whatever you ask him, that you ask them will always be a slightly more divided opinion, therefore, certainly not, that they support the measures. But may the majority support, one part of this country's citizens, admit it, not accept it, or be skeptical of the measures proposed by this government, not like the president, for a reason or for no reason, and tend to disrespect the things that come from that side. So, if the thing was so dramatic and it was really as dramatic as I believe it was to some extent, then it was no more logical than that, apart from the government's representative, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic and by some minister, at least once, in addition to the political message, there were some representatives of the opposition, who, no matter what they think of each other in general, would surprise you, was relatively constructive or quite constructive during these measures. Practically, no one from the opposition called for a violation of these measures. Maybe this call for this process on Thursday, I know you're watching me, Mrs. Brnabic, but it's true, this may be a protest call, but they still urged citizens not to join them, can be interpreted as some kind of obstruction. They were gunning, criticising, it was ultimately their right, but they didn't call for a breach of measures. And if they could give an opinion, that's even desirable. Some of the proposals that the opposition or some of the leaders of the opposition, including my smallness, although I do not feel like a leader, were presented several days after the delivery, were first criticised and attacked by these proposals, and were then adopted or slightly modified, and adopted by the government. I'm saying, I'm sorry there's no representative of that part of the opposition to remind themselves what they're proposing, and then what are you or the crisis headquarters what he adopted after a few days? But that's what it is. An opportunity has been missed to demonstrate national and national unity at this exact moment of crisis, but for that, as well as for tango, it takes two. I'm afraid, I have a feeling there wasn't one in this case, that's all. that no party was too interested in using it for such a kind of demonstration, but it was going on and on to some kind of political benefit, a political benefit. In that case, you know who's more responsible. More responsible is the one who is stronger, and of course the government is stronger. In that sense, it would be appropriate for you, by the government, the president to come up with such an initiative. There would have been fewer violations, although there were no too many violations of these measures now, and these measures would have had greater support, if at least one of these infamous and notorious leaders of the opposition had appeared with representatives of the authorities. It's about introducing a state of emergency. You said Mrs. Brnabic that the measures the Government and the Crisis Staff were bringing were smart and timely. I'm saying they weren't timely, and some of them were smart, some weren't. So I'm not gonna say it was all bad. So there's no misunderstanding, I can't think of anything to say that was all bad. Some parts of the system have shown that they work and that I think that some humble, but transitional assessment for everything that seemed to be in this crisis is definitely deserved. The supply system survived, it didn't break. There was no medical equipment, to be realistic, until about the last ten days. These hygienic products were missing, from masks to gasoline, or alcohol, but the basic foods were, and that is indeed commendable to all those who deserve it. Buying our citizens at airports is also a very successful action. Remote schooling, i.e. basic distance education, this system has worked with great effort both parents and students and above all teachers involved. The medical profession has once again shown, along with some bloating weaknesses and incidents, it has earned that applause that once louder, sometimes referred to them more quietly, but I distinguish the system and the profession from those under the quotes of the representatives of the profession who, in the name of the profession, generally appear in the last month or two days. There was I would say, too many problematic statements that it could just be written off and go over it, like my God, different opinions, we all make mistakes. So the measure of physical distance, the isolation of the oldest was desirable, but I think it was too rigorous and too rigid. These many-day quarantines, I think they're more counterproductive and harmful than they are useful. Also, I think that at first there were more or less deliberately tended, to say counterfeiting or a little concealment of facts, maybe so as not to panic, but that added mistrust to what those representatives of the profession were saying. It has already been mentioned here and it has been said more than once to the public, but we must remind ourselves, not only the virus and not just the invitation to go shopping in Milan, but also some other things and some other representatives of the profession, so God and the authorities pointed out irresponsible statements at the very beginning of this crisis. That's why my opinion is that he was late with some measures. I admit it was worse and I'll never say, nor suggest we were the worst. No, there have been worse cases, but we haven't been the best, as it suggests from your opening statement and what Mrs. Brnabic claims. When we look at real numbers, even though the numbers can sometimes turn a little bit, no, we weren't the best, away from that, not in the region, not when you look at the number of the sick, or when you look at the number of the deceased, or when you look at the number of the deceased as 100,000. So we're not. What's the problem? We haven't been the worst, fortunately, that blackest scenario has been avoided, and I respect that, and I'm glad for that. But it's not good to brag too much, because then even what's done well, a little shadow is thrown away. Here, I've listed three or four things that I think have turned out well, from systematic supply, remote education, to action to collect our countrymen around airports around the world, and this care for our oldest citizens. I think the first reaction was to a certain delay, that there was an underestimation of the problem, there was another one, one of you quoted what statements were made in Italy, and then some panic reactions started. Because, look, maybe you can recognize, Mrs. Brnabic, since Minister Mali also quoted at the beginning of an unknown speaker from those thousands of euros, then we discovered who he is, do you know who he said -- I have a theory that there will be no virus coming to us at all. That was said February 28th, passed on the "Hello" list. One other official of the profession said, "Corona disappears in two months." If that were said today, it would be a relatively acceptable, optimistic statement. But that's said February 29th. Do you remember, Mr. Lonchar, who promised and who said we could make a vaccine for the Chinese virus? So it was transmitted, the tabloids transmitted how in Serbia they discovered the vaccine against the Coronavirus? Do you remember, Mrs. Brnabic, who said that twenty times more people die every day from mosquito bites than this virus? Do you remember, Mr. Lonchar, who said that Coronavirus is weaker than seasonal flu and that more people die from seasonal flu than Coronavirus? It wasn't in December or January, it was February 26, 2020. I agree some things didn't know each other, but we're talking about the end of February here. There were too many such statements. Somehow, only Dr. Nestorovic is involved in public affairs, and he pays the price, this shopping in Milan, and that story about a ridiculous virus that exists only on the Internet, but many representatives and authorities and professions have made very similar statements, which seemed exaggerating. After all, on March 12th, Dr. Conn said that closing schools would be shot blank. On March 13th, Minister Sarcevic announced criminal measures against directors who release students on their own that they do not have to come to school, and the state of emergency was imposed on March 15th and teaching was abolished. So I'm stressing - we're not the worst. The system has shown resistance to certain things. Whose credit it is, we can discuss it. Everyone here has contributed, certainly, to the current set, but, of course, those predecessors. In my court and my impression, I may be mistaken, perhaps the biggest contribution is the old, many times criticised and despised health socialist system, which so eloquently criticised various, which showed its vitality, not only in our country but also in Eastern Europe. It's no accident that when you look at them for Europe, the best in the fight against Coronavirus is in these former socialist countries. Not just them, though. Of course, and Germany, which always has a strong social dimension of the health and social system at all. But when you look at these results in the environment, you see that Greece was more successful than us, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovakia, etc. When I listen to you, Mrs. Brnabic, it seems like everything is great and wonderful. It's not. I can understand that the tests were insufficient at first, but that should have been admitted. You're saying we're the second or third, and now we're going to be second, as of today, by the number of tests we've run. That's probably true, but that number's only increased in the last ten days. In the first weeks of the epidemic, we were the worst in the region. We ran the smallest tests, and in total, especially per capita. It's also facts. So the system didn't fall apart, some lives were saved, but some were lost. I don't blame anyone, I don't point a finger, but I think we have to bear in mind that even today when we speak, we criticize or praise a government or some measure, that it didn't start all of us, that we didn't do everything right, and that doesn't mean that no one else here has any merit and that these merits should not be admitted, not that others serve us just as a source of guilt and accusations, such as, unfortunately, the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73547	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73548	Mr. Vukadinovic, I thank you for your views and opinions. I'm sorry this isn't over yet, so we can declare the generals and the others, unfortunately, this story will take some time. Yeah, I remember every statement. I absolutely remember every statement and I say it's early for the generals. We've already told you a few times that we're neither psychic nor anything else. We evaluated things based on reports from people who were in charge of this, first of all I mean the World Health Organization, and other scientists who dealt with the topic. Accordingly, the exact time in which we were present, or period, was the time when these statements came. As time went by, as we were more familiar with this virus, and especially when we gained our own experience, of course we had more reliable information back then. I don't want to get into whether we were getting the right information, whether they were true, weren't true, that's something that you should agree to, that it's going to be a long time before all these things are fixed, because we can't even determine what happened a few months ago, and we say that it ended up somewhere, that it's somewhere okay. I'll come back after you've potentiated that vaccine and what I've said, once again, if you haven't been able to figure out exactly what this is about. So we've already made a meeting with our experts, to remind you, who have experience making vaccines, which have made similar vaccines. They analyzed and said they could do it and cost it, that it was expensive and that we could offer it to people if someone was interested in investing in it and doing it. That's the whole point. But at that moment, either someone was going to work alone or with someone else, no one found themselves who wanted to invest and work. That's what it's all about. So the answer remains the same. We could, we can do this, we just need partners for these things, because it's not, and you know, not a little cheap thing, and we're not that big a population that could give that kind of money to make a vaccine just for Serbia or something like that. As far as the health system is concerned, you mentioned our health system, said the previous MP who called, thank you for saying this yourself, and you asked the question – what would have happened if we had succumbed to the pressures and let private clinics, hospitals, and that they were going to contracts with the state and that the state was financing it. First of all, to be clear, I absolutely appreciate and respect all the people who are in the private sector who have invested in what they are doing. I'll always support that, but one serious state has to take care of it and it needs to know where the private sector is and where it belongs to the state sector. Which I hope after this situation, it is absolutely clear to all those who may have not been clear and who have been putting a terrible pressure on us to develop the private sector and to shut down the state sector. Well, I expected you, if you want to be objective, that maybe you should have said, no, it's an honor, but it's a good thing you saved the state sector, which you didn't give, which many people wanted to do. I mean, minimum, you don't have to, of course, it doesn't matter, but let the citizens know. Once again -- yes, all those statements stand, they were at that time with the amount of information we had. We can't even say today that we've met the coronary virus, and I've never heard anyone say that in the world. We continue to possess information from our personal experience and experience of those who want to publish their experiences. So the story isn't over, the virus is there, for who knows which time I repeat, we have to live with it, let's make it as comfortable as possible, but safe to live with this virus, because that's the point of the whole story. Everything else has no purpose. Is something broken by the law, not broken, in order. I think about how we should act now so we don't ruin what we've done so far, if you think we're going to compete with someone, I'm telling you now, every country, every citizen of the world, we want to have as little problems as possible and solve the problem as possible, but most of all I want us to solve it, and we have as few victims as possible, and that the better it goes. It's too soon, Mr. Vukadinovic, for grades, too soon. We can have the current intersection, but analysis and conclusion, I repeat, minimum, year, two, three, five, don't waste time on that right now. Let's all appeal to our citizens together, we won't need any measure if we're to be responsible, but it's up to us. They're not the subject, they shouldn't be the subject of whether the clock will be from then on. Let's act the same all the time, responsible. Don't make it a law or a rule or anything. It's the only way we can end this without making a mistake and having a good result. There's still time to work here. Let's spend our strength and energy on that appeal, on the citizens, on the people, to ease the doctors, to ease the nurses, to reduce the pressure on the hospitals, to preserve that resource, because here they say nicely, who doesn't realize today that nothing will be the same as it was a day, two or five of these before this occurs. It's dangerous. The most dangerous thing is that people with no width, no vision and no knowledge of the essence, especially I'm talking about health care, not doing what's going to have to be done. It must be known the essence of the health system, but now serious steps must be planned as to what will be done. No problem, we'll get Serbia organized, produce everything except the respirator, buy respirators, but neither will those equipment, nor will those respirators be able to work alone. It's a serious matter that you're going to have to work on, that you're going to have to deal with these generations that are coming. I mean, to young doctors who will have to be the turning point of what needs to happen in Serbian health, to combine all these things and to create a system that will be able to meet all the challenges. Don't forget if it's true, I'm building up, that in America, now that you're sick of the crown, they're putting you in charge of the same second, I don't know how many thousands of dollars, four, five, six thousand dollars. And that tomorrow whatever you're doing, you're gonna have to, I'm building up, that's what people in America say is happening. Tests are charged in most countries at 120, 130 or I don't know how many euros. Not to talk about countries they won't even test. So there are various experiences that we can analyze and learn from. You can't enter a hospital in many countries today unless you have adequate insurance if you don't pay. Have you heard of an example, whether it is a Serbian citizen, whether it is another citizen, that he was not admitted to the hospital, that he was not shown help, that he was not treated. Just imagine how much it costs. It's very simple. Here, just get the data as much as the other ones charge and the simplest way to calculate it. We all use the same equipment, we all use the same medication, it doesn't make any difference. The point is, now you have to think about the future of the health system. It's now a health care system organization for the future. Now if we're late, if we pull this system apart now, we don't leave it unique, we don't leave it to experts and vision people who know that they see and who know what the essence is, they'll never recover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73549	Thank you, Minister for your reply. The MPs insist on speaking tonight. He gives the word to Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group will vote for the legislation of the Emergency Decision and for the legislation of all the regulations that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made in the course of the state of emergency, with the co-signature of the President of the Republic. Here, that we sinners respond to something of this sinless, to those who led Serbia until 2012 and those who, from the day on when the emergency situation in the Republic of Serbia was imposed, broke the barbaric fire, primarily according to the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and then by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the President of the Republic who did everything the opposite of what they did when they were in power. Why do I say that? Vuk Jeremic served as an army in Boris Tadic's cabinet. A man who attacks us every day from television that is allegedly objective, which is democratic, "N1" TV, academic Teodorovic fled at the start of NATO bombings in the United States. What did Alexander Wolf do? Those who wrote the worst possible things about him and his son who got sick didn't send his son abroad and didn't hide him somewhere on Santa's, at some villa, but sent him to volunteer and Danilo got sick as a volunteer, Dad didn't send him to some special hospital for his father's sons, like they did, but Danilo was lying with other patients at the Belgrade Fair. Alexander Vukic did as he did during World War II, the great English Prime Minister Churchill, who did not hide his son from serving the army, the British Army in World War II, but sent his son to the military and his son Randolph Churchill was head of the British military mission, including the Partisan since the beginning of 1944. That's what responsible people do. In their case, they show that he is struggling with his heart and soul for the benefit of Serbian citizens. They say those without sin, such as Djilas, like Vuk Jeremic, like Bosko Obradovic and all those from the DS, who in the meantime fell apart in a whole series of forms and different aggregate states, that we introduced the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's not true. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 200 says: "When the National Assembly is unable to meet a decision on the declaration of state of emergency, together the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister under the same conditions as the National Assembly. “ We couldn’t meet because the epidemic was starting to get closer to its peak. That is why the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the National Assembly decided by a joint decision to introduce a state of emergency in this way. How did these unmistakable introduce the state of emergency in 2003? Let's remind ourselves. Quite the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's when the 1990 Constitution came into force. Under the constitution, the state of emergency could be declared by the National Assembly in the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On March 12th, 2003, a state of emergency across the territory of the Republic of Serbia was introduced by Natasa Micic, at the time v.d. President of the Republic of Serbia. That's how these sinless, the sinless ones who tell us -- you've introduced a state of emergency against the Constitution to suspend human rights, freedom, freedom of the press, etc. Let's see how it was at the time of those sinless ones, some of whom are sitting here. There is also former sinless Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic of 2003. The first order brought by these infallibles was an order from March 13, 2003, which was also signed by V.D. Natasa Micic, orders on special measures to be applied during emergency. Do you know what that order meant? Full media freedom in the Republic of Serbia has been abolished. The media was obliged to transmit the government's official statements exclusively. Imagine in 2003 that someone remembered to open television in Serbia as there is now TV "N1", which every day has a 24 hour campaign against the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, against the government of the Republic of Serbia, against all those who fight day and night against this epidemic that has hit us. At that time, during these sinless 2003s, it absolutely wasn't possible. Journalists were persecuted, newspapers were banned, police raided the newsroom. It wasn't that long ago. We remember that time when these people are sinless, who now know everything and understand everything, both rightly and in medicine and in the economy, but the problem is that they didn't understand when they were in power, because if they understood each other today they wouldn't be faced with the problems we're facing. What did these innocuous ones do next? In this order of March 13th, it is said – forbidden... Look, this is the language published in 1920, so this is a language that only exists in countries that are dictatorial or insane. They say they have been unmistakable in their order since 13 March 2003 – public intelligence, the breaking up of the press and other information on the reasons for the declaration of state of emergency, except for the transmission of official statements by the competent state authorities. So at the time of these sinless, no media could transmit any other information except that information coming from the Serbian government. Imagine that in 2020, the Serbian government brought this order. What would you say if we were dictators, that we were absoluteists, that we were villains? And that's all you've been doing and you've got the nerve today to tell Alexander Vukic that he's a dictator in this year 2020, how are you not ashamed? How are you not ashamed of those who have forbidden all things alive? He says, I don't have that problem that I should now be grateful to a few people from that so-called civil and democratic opposition who came to the session and now I can't say one word because they came, and otherwise two years don't come to the National Assembly, but that's why they get paid neatly every month and haven't missed a single trip abroad, as far as I know. So, I don't have that prejudice that they are gods for me now because they came to the session today, it's their job, as far as I'm concerned they could come and not come, let them do as they please, but the citizens of Serbia need to know and we are obliged to remind them how it was in their time. Today, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said, quoting him as saying: “The powdered dogs from the tabloids are attacking the opposition. “ Excuse me, who invented the tabloids in Serbia? Alexander Wolfie? Anna Brnabic? Goldibor Lonchart? No, I don't. Tabloids in Serbia were invented by people like Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and similar to them. That's when the tabloids in Serbia were invented. They have nothing to do with Alexander Wolf. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, who was today trying to tell us the criticism of what we are doing, said in 2003: "The basic rule at a time of emergency", these are his words from 2003, "the basic rule at a time of emergency is that there is no commenting on the reason for introducing an emergency". So you couldn't say one word to the public about why the state of emergency was introduced. Let's see further what these unmistakable ones have done. At the time of these sinless, some of whom are sitting here today, and some have been here in the hall all day long holding press conferences and talking about that Vukic is a dictator, that the villain, to shut people down, that he wants to introduce a dictatorship, etc., at the time of these infallible, do you know where their health minister Tomica Milosavljevic went to surgery? In the Federal Republic of Germany and thus hit the biggest slap on his fellow doctors and sent a message to the citizens of Serbia – I can because I am a minister, because I have a lot of couples and I can afford surgery in Germany, and you who do not have money, go ahead, and treat yourself in health institutions that I am head of as health minister. To die, if you are a minister of health, you are obliged to be treated in your country, because it shows responsibility, thus showing patriotism, thus showing that you believe in the health system you are managing. What message is Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, which is a question for you who were in power at the time, what message did he send when he went to perform the operation in Germany, and this operation could be carried out in the Republic of Serbia? That's what you innocuous ones did. You sinless, that's where I think of this sinless Zoran Zivkovic, you say, quote... (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. ) Infallible Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic says, "He hides from the people what is purchased." We're not hiding anything. Here, I'll tell you what's been bought. Here, listen, you sinless Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: Go ahead, jackass.) Yes, I'm a donkey, and you're a sinless man. Great. As for the respirator, dear Serbian citizens: an agreed amount of 3,967 respirators, and so far we have been delivered 585, donated 120, we have served 38 respirators ourselves. We have 743 respirators implemented in the system today. Masks: We've arranged 127,934,000 masks, and so far we've been delivered 32,503 masks. As for the Skuffander, an agreed amount of 3.33,000 has been delivered to us so far 730,000; Rukavice - 39,000, delivered 28.000; tests - 818,000, so far delivered 130,000; medicines: 688,000, so far delivered 1,271, etc. So we're not hiding anything from the citizens, everything is transparent and everything is public. Immaculate Marko Djurisic, who spoke today for nearly two hours, and no MP group, forgot to say that today, his MP group, I believe is his boss Boris Tadic, I can no longer figure out who is in this opposition, left him today by two MPs -- Goran Bogdanovic, former Minister for Kosovo and Metohija and Zdravko Stankovic. If Maja Gojkovic wanted to cut her hair into four pieces and push her to the finish line, Marko Djurisic would not be able to speak today. Why? Because he doesn't have an MP's group, he fell apart today. He says we need to be responsible, how we made a mistake in this, in that, are not good measures, etc. He cannot preserve a five-seat parliamentary group, and he knows how to manage the state during an epidemic Serbia has never faced before. Says the sinless Marko Djurisic – how does the Minister of Interior right to take orders? Read the State Administration Act. At a time of regular status, let alone during a state of emergency, each minister under the State Administration Act has been authorised to bring in three types of general legal acts: regulations, orders and instructions. You have to read regulations, not scare people like you've been doing all this time. Furthermore, says the sinless Marko Djurisic – why are you talking about war, we are not in any war, and President of France Makron says – we are at war with an invisible enemy. That invisible enemy is a virus that has hit the whole world and the whole world has never faced before. Both the Serbian government and the president of the Republic of Serbia have done absolutely everything that can be done by a normal and reasonable man, or by a normal and reasonable group of people who take care of their own citizens. The measures are difficult, it is quite clear, but if there were no such difficult measures, the question is what would happen to the life and health of our citizens. You are free of all civil and political rights if the state fails to provide you with that elemental right, which is the right to live. So that you can also move freely and have free media and that you can organise yourself politically, that you can also criticise the work of the President of the Republic and the work of the Prime Minister and tell the president of the parliamentary group that he is a donkey, which is all legitimate in politics, is a basic condition for you to be alive. If you're not alive, all these other rights are dead letters on paper. Both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have taken all the measures they have taken to save human lives. That's what Serbian citizens understand well. So our people are a little spoiled. We're all a little spoiled, but our people are basically a hard people. Don't forget that we live in a state of emergency, to be fair, since 1990. We survived both wars and sanctions and bombings. And we survived them until 2012, which were also a kind of informal emergency, because what these people did in the area of finance, in the area of the economy, in the area of health care, so that was the total destruction of all segments of the state and all segments of society. Let's see what it's been like in the days of these sinless people who are giving us sermons and lessons today that we haven't been ready to face the Coronavirus epidemic? In March 2011, I am talking about the salaries of the doctor of infectologists and pediatricians and nurses, at the clinic for infectious and tropical diseases of the Serbian Clinical Centre in Belgrade, the doctor had a salary of 64,000 dinars, and today, in March 2020, the doctor has a salary of 96,000 dinars. A nurse in their day, in the time of these sinless, all-knowing, all-knowing, nurse's salary was 30,762 dinars, and today the salary is 49,242 dinars. At the General Hospital, Cacak the Infectologist had a salary of 64,000 dinars, and today he has a salary of 96,000 dinars. It was the same for you at the University Children's Clinic in Tirshaw. When these sinners ruled, a pediatrician doctor had a salary of 64,000 dinars, and today he has a salary of over 96,000 dinars. Some people have estimated whether it was better, whether politicians who acted more responsibly at the time of these sinless, in the time of these political apostles, at the time of those who understand everything, at the time of those who beat themselves into pots and pots, did so before, or us sinful, stupid donkeys who did everything we could to save the lives of Serbian citizens, regardless of nation, religion, race, gender. We took care of all alike, the Serbs and the Hungarians and the Bosniaks and all others. So, the choice will be. No matter how many of you run away from the elections, the election will be, and in the elections the people will tell their judgment of both you and the sinners. I'm convinced that our people, who are, I say, are a little spoiled, but they're still harder and harder than the Western people, and who understands that an angry wound must be put on angry grass, they'll give their judgment both on you and on us.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73551	Thank you. Just to remind you that we haven't extended our work until 6:00 p.m. we're working. Zoran Zivkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73552	Thank you. I don't know what made my colleague talk about me. If the topic was “Sabela” and in 2003, then he had the full right to speak fully of me. And I'd like to protect anyone else from those he's made an illusion of if they were involved in it. There are no others. Others were in the police, in the prosecutions, but I heard that in the afternoon some politician, some colleague here said that he ran the Sabre then and the state of emergency, that doesn't matter. So, for everything that happened in "Sablja" in 2003 in a political and personal sense, I alone bear responsibility, and I am proud of it, and I promise both to a respected colleague and other Serbian citizens that a new version of "Sablja 2.0" is being prepared. Otherwise, for the people to know, the name "Sabbe" was given to me by the then Minister of Interior of the Russian Federation, Shygu, a friend of mine. So, so much for relations with the Russians and others. Someone was whispering that I was lying earlier. I said my colleague missed the topic completely and we're going to find that out in the new saber. But generally, then measures were introduced that were absolutely necessary, acceptable, with records, up to 80%, 90% of what was meant to be achieved, and the citizens had no problem with those measures. Some media have been closed because they have been official voices of the Zemun clan or of some other clans whose members or sympathisers sit around. And secondly, everyone was completely satisfied with what was done then. Finally, a colleague told himself a while ago that he was a donkey. I didn't mean to insult him, I was just quoting him.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73553	Aleksandar Martinovic has a replica, and Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73554	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. So, at the time of this sinless former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, this action, "Sabbe", has been brilliantly implemented to this extent and has been legally perfect that hundreds and hundreds of millions of dinars have been paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia since 2004, to the citizens of Serbia who have been legally deprived of liberty and who have been tried, and it has finally been found not to blame for what has been placed on them. Don't make it look like I'm saying this like a donkey, they're saying official data. I am a donkey, unlike the sinless and brilliant Zoran Zivkovic, but the data suggests that the situation in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, etc., as a consequence of "Sablje", was not as great as the sinless Zoran Zivkovic says. In 2015 910 claims were filed for damages due to unfounded deprivement of freedom, in 2014 913 requests. From 1 January 2005 to October 2013, 5,896 claims for damages were filed. Let me remind you of another piece of information, how much of the budget we had to set aside because of their poor conduct of state policy and because of the poor conduct of judicial proceedings at a time when these infallibles were in power. Let me remind you, it wasn't that long ago. The High Court's account in Belgrade was blocked in August 2015 with a payment order of 2.52 billion dinars. So, 2.52 billion dinars because of the court's judicial release of 22 members of the so-called so-called. The bankruptcy mafia. It was at the time of the sinless Zoran Zivkovic, the sinless Dragan Gilas, the sinless Boris Tadic, the sinless Vuk Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73555	Thank you. Replica one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73556	So the data that's been presented is completely incorrect. About "Sablje" paid 30 indemnities, there were 30 of them and not that they were judged otherwise, of course, it wasn't, but because they were in custody for a time, so no criminal charges were filed against them, and it all happened because all of them, or almost everyone, had a man for a lawyer at the time of "Sablje" who, after less than half a year or a year, became a minister of justice. Otherwise, Jankovic, I think, from the DSS. Therefore, for 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, check everyone who can verify it, half the compensation paid for any unauthorized detention I don't know what, but years before and years after that. The bankruptcy mafia was not tried in "Sablja", it has nothing to do with "Sablja". For bankruptcy, it was some others, not to mention them now, but it was after 2003. You're absolutely right about what you said a year ago about yourself and don't do it any further. All you said was a complete, absolute lie. I call on the Ministry of Justice and the Prime Minister to provide us with information on what is and how much has been paid to those who were allegedly illegally brought into "Sablja". They were legal, too, but it doesn't matter. What they got, meaning those arrested in "Sablja", as far as Serbia's state has paid them, Serbia's budget. It's a few dozen million dinars, which is dramatically less than any normal year when it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73557	Thank you. To help you, they didn't have any criminal charges or criminal charges, they never answered anything, which is why the damages were paid. Just legal to help you. The word has a National MP, Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73558	To remind the citizens of Serbia again. It wasn't that long ago. "Sabela" was introduced because you wanted to, you say, deal with the Zemun clan. Tell me, sinless Zorana Zivkovic, is Alexander Vucic, is Anna Brnabic, is Zlatibor Lončar, any of us dancing at a party of red berets in The Tower or did you, the sinless Zoran Zivkovic? In 2000, who declared Milorad Ulemek a national hero just because he turned his back on Slobodan Milosevic and moved on to your side? Who did this? That's what you did. (Zoran Zivkovic: I am. That's right, you did it. As far as this data is concerned, these are official data from the Ministry of Justice, not my data, and I told myself I was a donkey, but I didn't say that last year, but in 2016, I told Yugoslavia Cosic, when I first and last visited N1. Let me tell you, that TV has its headquarters in New Belgrade. I did not go to Luxembourg to visit Yugoslavia, as he claims to broadcast the programme from Luxembourg, but went to New Belgrade. How much money the state had to pay for your boastfulness, for your violation of the law, for your exorcism of alleged justice against people who were completely innocent, there are official data about it. After all, the sinless Zorana Zivkovic, do you remember that the public enemies were then Ceca, Lukas, General Nebojsa Pavkovic, etc.? They were enemies of the state for you. They were also arrested and they also had the state to pay enormous amounts, yes, yes. Ceca was a state enemy, Aca Lukas was a state enemy, Nebojsa Pavkovic was a state enemy, General Aca Tomic was a state enemy, the whole assembly was a state enemy, because you made a decision about the state of emergency without the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-28-0.u73559	Thank you. Dear MPs, we've finished our work for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. We can continue the discussion and the replicas and everything, but tomorrow at 10:00. The same goes for Mark Djurisic's replica. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the emergency. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. We stopped at the replica yesterday and I'm going to allow the replicas that we broke yesterday, but that it takes a short while, so we can move on to the discussion on the agenda. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
