ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71728	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 25th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 65 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your MP cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71729	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the boycott, although it's a desperate and losing move, because that's all that's left of one piece of the opposition, is a legitimate form of political struggle. The fact that more than a year do not come to work, do not come to congregation benches, it is again their responsible and serious relationship with citizens who have given them confidence, gave them the mandate to do one responsible job and to have responsibility for what they should do. What is worrying, messages that we are looking at these days, ladies and gentlemen, through social networks and which are part of the campaign, called "boycott", are something that we should all fight together, both representatives of the government and representatives of the opposition. I purposely say -- both representatives of the government and representatives of the opposition. It is something that must not become a norm of social behavior in Serbia. Only twisted minds can be involved in political thinking, in thinking on Serbia's political scene to introduce this kind of depravity. The morbidity that has been directed, primarily towards the president of the Republic of Serbia, towards the foreign minister, to some other ministers, but also to the leaders of opposition political parties, has been visible the previous days. What is extremely ferocious is the morbidity and depravity directed towards the children of Serbia's president, the foreign minister, some of the ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, but I repeat, the leader of opposition political parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is this a boycott campaign, are these photographs a boycott? The photographs include politicians, but these photos include children of Serbian President, Foreign Minister Krkobobic, Mr Babic, who is a senior SNS official, but also Mr Vojislav Seselj, who is the president of the SRS. Some of these children are involved in the political process, but if you want to tell them something, then be so brave and come to the congregation benches, so tell them. Don't do it like this. Why do you draw targets like this on top of kids who have nothing to do with politics? It is shameful, and it must not be a norm, a basic norm of social behavior in Serbia. That's why I'm saying it's something that we all have to fight together. You stand up, you say, during this boycott for freedom of the media. Is this media freedom? Is the freedom of the media by putting the owner of the television station on the photo and his son and also drawing a target on his son's forehead? Don't watch that TV program. It is not correct for you to come to REM all the time and tell press conferences very openly – when we are part of the government we will close that television, because we do not like the way they inform. So you're still trying to deal with the private sector, even though in 2000 you insisted on capitalism. You've got capitalism. Where did this need come from today? So once again in the right way, it demystifies itself, and the boycott policy and the boycott campaign are naked. It only comes down to one thing, and it's hate and nothing else. It's hate and there's no limit, just depravity and morbidity that's directed towards children. I ask the question - where are the limits and are we all going to allow it, or are we all going to stand up together and say what we think about it and ask the competent authorities and the competent institutions to respond to any such phenomenon? You know what the difference between us and this part of the opposition is? In one keyword, and that's politeness, the way we understand the definition of the word courtesy. This ruling coalition has shown in works, not words, that it respects the principle of decency, also respecting the principle of responsibility, because the essence of decency is that we do a fair, honest and responsible job for which we have taken responsibility, but also that we bear both responsibility and consequences. It's proof and it's the essence of everything. This is proof of what we seek, which is to be a decent, normal, orderly and responsible society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71730	Thank you. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71731	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity to hear the announcements of the President of the Republic that after the next elections, if the SNS is once again a party that will form a government, there will be a parliamentary majority in the Serbian Parliament, that around 90% of the people who are now taking key positions, which are ministers, state secretaries, directors of public enterprises, will be replaced because the President of the Republic is not satisfied with their work. Also, it was said that there would be spending on the SNS electoral list, that there would now be some new and I stress his words – unpromised people, and then also a message that it would apply to the locality, that the presidents of municipalities, directors of public utility companies, members of city administrations, etc. would be replaced. Now a logical question is raised – if from the very top of the government comes a message that it will be more than 50%. 70% change, personal, government and local, as far as the president of the municipalities is concerned, is this recognition and contradictory with what can be heard every day from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that there are no such results? If a government is doing well, if one of the presidents of the municipality is committed to improving the municipality and working in its interest, why would he be removed? So, this seems to be an indirect confession that the SNS didn't actually fulfill what it boasted, what she was pompously announcing, the promises she had been campaigning with last time, and for that reason we're now on our way, i.e. They're on their way, into new promises. Local officials, ministers, etc. will be replaced. So this story does not stand together with messages that can be heard from the Government of the Republic of Serbia about never better successes in all resolutions, the best in history and for the first time in history, etc. Secondly, the President of the Republic also said, so I would like to ask the question to the distinguished Mrs Gojkovic, as is the goal of those electoral changes. laws that have changed recently to return political life to parliament, parliament should be the centre of political life, key decisions to make, pluralism of opinions, etc. I am interested in this light -- how is it possible, then, given the ignoring of SRS messages for four years, the first time in terms of the new Rules of Procedure, the practice, the work of the National Assembly, we were the first to change it, it was only changed when they arrived to dictate from abroad that they could no longer, but I am interested if political life is returning to parliament, how is it possible that we remain on the agenda of the National Assembly do not have the Law on executive procedure and security proposed by the SRS parliamentary group along with more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens, so the bill that abolishes public executions, execution returns to courts? If the centre of political life is parliament, if political life is to be conducted in parliament, according to the President of the Republic, I see no reason not to find this bill in the National Assembly. We took it back in September. There is absolutely no answer, and we have had the opportunity to see in the National Assembly and proposals that are widely supported by the ruling majority submitted by Gordana Comic, and the laws tabled by Nenad Canak, and this which we believe is a key issue, the issue of abolishing once and for all times public enforcement in the Republic of Serbia, is still not on the agenda. So show a little bit of what you often say to see if you're actually fulfilling something of what you're saying or what it's all for marketing purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71732	Thank you. Who exactly did you ask the question to? (Alexander Seselj: To you. To whom? (Alexander Seselj: To you. To me all these five minutes? I'll have a partial answer. Is anyone else answering to ask a question? The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71733	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Labour and Employment, martial arts and social affairs. As well known in Serbia, hundreds of thousands of citizens who participated in the wars of the 1990s live in the former Yugoslavia. It is hundreds of thousands of fighters, and they all expect their question to finally be resolved in one systematic way by passing a new law on fighters, rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil invalid wars and families of fallen fighters. The law-making process has been going on for many years and we all expect it to enter the Assembly procedure soon. Among the key issues that fighters expect to be resolved is the issue of a combat supplement, the issue of regulation of post-traumatic stress, the issue of martial retirement and a number of other issues. Again, as I have done several times in the Assembly, I will highlight a particular problem, and it concerns more than 50,000 members of the Republika Srpska Army, whose status issue is not covered by the bill's proposal. Namely, this bill recognises the war effort of the Krajina fighters only until April 27, 1992, until the day of the creation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. This bill does not recognise the period after 27 April 1992, and because of this fact, 50,000 Krajina fighters feel bitter because they believe they have not waged any private war but have fought honestly and honestly for the interests of their people, for Serbia and Yugoslavia. I just want to give you a few examples of why I think the country's fighters need to be recognized as a wartime man. First, during the previous period, all the country's officers and officers have been recognised as a double-term military service throughout the war. The question arises – with whom did the Krajina officers and officers command if they were granted military service and not their fighters? I also reminded myself of this several times that Croatia had fully equalised the rights of members of the Croatian Council and neighbouring BiH with the rights of members of the Croatian army with its law on the rights of Croatian veterans several years ago, and in this sense there was no difference. So my opinion is that this bill must be complemented by this provision, that all members of the Republika Srpska Army and police are recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. I think that this would correct historical injustice and that Serbia would thus send a clear message that it recognises the country's fighters and recognise their honorable and fair struggle. Otherwise it will turn out to be the exact fake thesis of the Croatian side that Serbs, or Krajissi, have committed aggression on Croatia, which is an absolute lie. I would also ask the Ministry of Justice -- will funds finally be provided to help indicted Serbs defend war crimes? The vast majority of fighters live in a very difficult situation and barely put an end to the end, and now faces a large number of indictments brought by the Croatian prosecutor's office, the BiH prosecutor's office, and most of these charges are based on false facts. So, I expect and demand that the Ministry of Justice help the country's fighters, or all the fighters, in their defense for truth and justice. Otherwise, the exact thesis of Sarajevo and Zagreb will prove that the Serbs were indeed aggressors and criminals, and that the Croats and Bosniaks were indeed victims of the Liberation Wars. This is absolutely unacceptable and is why it is very important that Serbia assists the defence of war crimes fighters.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71734	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71735	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question concerns the Guardian of Citizens. What does the Citizens' Protector think about taking on a campaign these days against migrants by Bosko Obradovic and the political organisation Dveri? In fact, it is a campaign against migrants who are mostly going through the Republic of Serbia in an attempt to reach EU territory, and some of the EU countries are also responsible for the destruction of their countries and war operations carried out on the territory of those countries. Generally, the goal of these migrants is to pass through the Republic of Serbia with shorter retention, and Mr. Obradovic and the political organisation Dvori is doing a racist, fascist campaign for me and using the ice-truck truck as a prop. After hangings that were promised to Serbs at the protest by Dveri, the ice-truck now refers to migrants, i.e. showing migrants as the means they probably think they are using. To remind you that these days we've been discussing, and we haven't adopted, the Law on the Old Fairment Memorial Centre and I reminds me of that German bug truck, means with closed bodywork and it's a very visually bad message not only to migrants, but to all those who can see this campaign by Bosko Obradovic and Ljatic. Bosko Obradovic lost a long time ago not only to migrants, but also to the majority Serb people who live here, and this is an additional act that damages and politically harms the Republic of Serbia. So, I think the Citizens' Protector should take appropriate action because of this outrageous campaign that Bosko Obradovic is conducting in the Republic of Serbia these days. My second question is, a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia and for the Ministry of Interior. It is known that we made an effort last year to extend the deadline for the replacement of armed papers, i.e. documents for weapons that our citizens legally own. That deadline expires on March 5th and all of you Members of the People's Parliaments, as I am getting a sea of calls these days with a question of whether we will extend that deadline. I know that our citizens are a little lazy, that they may have had a chance to implement a rule of law, or regulation, and to replace the armed lists. This has not happened, and from what we're getting information from the field, there are about 500,000 unreplaced armed lists and these days there are huge crowds in police stations across Serbia. My question is -- what will the Serbian government do to take in one of the next sessions, I suggest that it be next week, the law is put in place and that the deadline for replacing the document be extended once again, which is not a simple administrative procedure, because there is a need and a certain amount of money, that is one, number two, in order to do so quickly, five medical examinations are needed, or a medical examination that makes up a panel of five doctors. On the other hand, training is needed, adequate training for arms handling and for me and for many colleagues sitting here, it is impossible to carry out the replacement of armed papers within this short time period, or documents for weapons that our citizens legally possess. I am against the sudden disarming of our people in this way and causing trouble, so that there are very vulnerable areas where weapons are used to protect farmers and the rural population from wild animals. On the other hand, along the administrative line, weapons provide some kind of security towards the incursion of Albanian forest thieves who often use weapons in areas along administrative lines for forest theft. I think that, despite the guilt of our population, it is necessary for the government to make this effort and re-emerge in the next session the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms and Ammunitions and to extend that deadline from 5 March of this year, and my proposal is for two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71736	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71737	Thank you. My first question goes to the Ministry of Construction's address and it's very brief and it concerns the very very specific answer to a specific question. We have been listening here for years both in the Assembly and from the Prime Minister that the results are excellent and that Belgrade, in particular, is a town of cranes, as it is built throughout Serbia, we have adopted multiple times and amended some laws that need to be made possible and speed up that construction. So, someone who listens to our official media and debates here would think that, if there are flowers, it's supposed to flower everywhere, especially in the area of construction. In that sense, it is very interesting, and that is why in the end I ask this question to the government, and especially to the construction ministry -- as it is possible for news to appear, I wonder if it is true, but it has been published on the official portal, the news agency announced that the number of apartments built last year, for the first time, they say, has been praised, in the last decade, not that it is, but that it could reach that number from 2011. It mentions concrete figures, reportedly not yet completed the data, but they hope that from 2018, recovery started, and before that, the number of newly built dwellings has dropped from year to year. Then I wonder how it flourished, how the apartment building flourished when, I say, it's supposed to be last year, and it's yet to be confirmed, the number of newly built apartments reached the 2011 number. That says a lot about how to say the propaganda we hear all the time and about the gap between reality and then what can be heard from our official sources. I say we are constantly talking about constructions, about "Belgrade on Water", about hundreds of thousands of new apartments and cranes working throughout Serbia, and then there is official data based on the results of the Institute of Statistics, therefore, by the state authority. My second question goes to the Ministry of Finance's address and there's an appeal that I've already mentioned here and directly to Minister Malo, and now I have a motive to repeat that question and to update it since the negotiations on the sale of the Commercial Bank are at the final stage. At first, I warned and spoke against that decision and called on the government to call on it. I see yesterday that the governor of the National Bank has expressed her position and opinion against the sale of the National Bank. She has her reasons, but I'm saying, I think it's very bad for the biggest and one of the last, literally the last banks that are state-owned sales, regardless of who the buyer is and whether we have a dilemma about his bonity, which is supposed to be in the course of that interrogation right now. So, this government is largely, better say this power came on the wave, I'd say justifiable criticism of privatization of everything in the previous period and many of you sitting here were involved in the criticism of these privatisations, along with me. Now, however, it turned out that this government continued where they had previously stopped, selling even what the previous governments did not want. I also think of RTB Bor, the Commercial Bank, these concessions for the airport and a series of other things. So, a devastating economic policy continues, in my opinion, devastating, by what a good part of the people of the current government spoke in time while in opposition, also devastating. So, I think if it's not too late, and it's not too late, I appeal and ask the Ministry of Finance to answer and Mr. Minister for Information as far as it comes and if there's any chance of stopping this process? Selling the Commercial Bank as the most important and biggest bank that's still in our hands? Since the time is near, I would just repeat and renew my question on Tuesday, and as far as the address of the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly is concerned, is there any intention that the Government and the Assembly will officially declare what the National Assembly of Republika Srpska has reached as conclusions regarding the threat of Republika Srpska and Dayton by the Constitutional Court of BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71738	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71739	Thank you, Chairman. A member group of SMS will address the issue to the Ministry of Economy and the APR. We are looking for information on the number of solutions issued to entrepreneurs on the interruption of the performance, so-called "work" the freezing and the number of solutions on the removal of entrepreneurs from the Business Register for the period from 15 December 2019, when the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax entered into force, up to the most recent date. We're looking for the same data for the same period last year and last year for comparison. Namely, from talks with entrepreneurs on the ground, primarily IT companies, therefore the work of information technologies, we have received information that a massive number of requests for freezing or eradicating from the register of companies in the field of information technologies, and that the reason for this is precisely what changes and additions to the Law on income tax of citizens were introduced at the end of last year in order to translate IT companies into the status of employees in order to increase the fiscal income of the state. However, we suspect that the consequences will actually be that we will have a massive shut-down of entrepreneurial actions and the relocation of IT entrepreneurship to other foreign addresses. In fact, we're fundamentally assuming that this data that we're looking for is going to indicate that. The main problem of IT entrepreneurs was so-called the independence test introduced by these amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, and then the digital community requested that the application of these provisions be postponed to prepare IT entrepreneurs for their implementation and that the state authorities should adopt adequate sublegal acts and be able to consistently implement the law and eliminate any subjectivity in the interpretation of its provisions by the tax authority, in order to eliminate any possible legal uncertainty, which could arise from this. In the modern Serbian party, we believe that such solutions must be made with extreme thought and caution. With our amendments, we then tried to influence the appearance of a final legal solution, and we expected the government to respect it in order to declare its age, but unfortunately the law was adopted in the original proposed text. This, a rather problematic test of independence, we assume, is based on the consequences of shutting down several thousand entrepreneurial actions and jeopardising IT entrepreneurship, and entrepreneurship in general, especially in the field of information technologies, should be the backbone of economic growth and the creation of new jobs and competitive positioning of Serbia on the European market, as our IT entrepreneurs are already widely recognised as globally competitive providers of IT technologies services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71740	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 3 to 7 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the sittings are invited to attend Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade and Tourism and Telecommunications and Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, with associates. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Project on the Acceleration of Innovation and Encouragement of Enterprise Growth in the Republic of Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement for the Project for the Construction of a Heatline of Obrenovac-New Belgrade between the Government of the Republic of Serbia – Import Bank, as a Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance as a Borrower, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on mutual recognition of quality services from trust provided to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Macedonia; Proposal for a Law on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia, on the one part of the European Union and its Member States, on the other, by means of Access to Trade in the Central Europe of Trade Agreement. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71741	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, you are facing today a few laws relating to agreements signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period, which are very important for the further development of our economy. So, the first law is a bill to confirm the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Innovation Acceleration Project and fostering entrepreneurship growth in the Republic of Serbia. The value of this loan is 43m euros and should now boost the further growth of entrepreneurship and scientific research in our country. Supporting the Republika Srpska Science Fund is 22.5m euros. Reform of the Research and Development Institute 8m euros. The programme of co-operation with the Serbian scientific diaspora 3.5m euros. So all the money from this loan will be invested and we will invest in the development of the Science Fund of the Republic of Serbia and scientific research. Today, you also have before you a bill to confirm the loan agreement for the Obrenovac-New Belgrade heat-distribution project. This is a very important project, a project that should contribute to the stability of the heating system in our capital, especially to solve the problem of several or some cold days during May and September. Also, if this project, or not as much as it is, when the project is implemented, conditions may also be created for reducing the price of heating in our capital. In any case, this is an ecological green solution and another long-awaited project that we will achieve in the next period. The third law on the agenda is the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on mutual recognition of qualified services from trust provided in both countries. So qualified services, these are trust services in this way and through this agreement we accept their qualified services, they accept our services and thus create conditions for electronic business to be accelerated. This is part of the "mini Schengen" big initiative that President Vukic has launched, which is currently related to the acceleration of the economic, economic, social, however you will, co-operation between the three countries in the Western Balkan territory in order to further and faster economic growth of all three countries. Next on the agenda is the draft law confirming the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia on the one hand and the Eurasian Economic Union and its Member States on the other. As you know, about 65% of our total foreign trade is with EU countries. Around the Eurasian Union there is about 7% of our foreign trade exchange, but by confirming this agreement we will achieve one strategic goal, which is to maintain the preferential status that we have on the territory of the Russian Federation and of course to continue to open the market of 180 million people. Of course, the more our economic operators are able to do, the more this will benefit them, and the more they export, the more they work with these countries, so that both the number of employees and new investments, of course, will increase in the next period. At today's session, you also have before you the proposal for a law confirming Additional Protocol 6 on trade in services of the Agreement amending and joining the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe. The aim of this agreement is to eliminate barriers to trade in services. I will remind you, as MPs, what is very important, the total exchange of the Republic of Serbia with the CEFTA countries last year was about 3.3 billion euros. Of that, the surplus that the Republic is accomplishing, the Republic of Serbia, is 2.3 billion euros. So we, as the dominant and largest country in the Western Balkans, have the greatest benefit of the CEFTA arrangement, and it is precisely the goal of this Protocol 6 that through further liberalisation of the service market, this volume of exchange is increased and of course that the Republic of Serbia has the greatest benefit. Somewhere around a billion euros is the total exchange of services, out of which is our country's surplus of 270m euros. So, all the agreements and all the laws that are before you today are ratifications of the agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are just directed to affect the improvement of the economic environment, the acceleration of our growth, the increase of employment and the improvement of the standard of living of Serbian citizens, through the agreement on heat-distribution. Thank you very much. I hope you will support these agreements in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71742	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71743	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the esteemed citizens of our country, we are today starting this working day with very interesting topics. As you have heard from the promoter, Mr. Minister, the Committee on Economy has considered three points that we will discuss today. These are agreements that have already been signed between our governments, and it is our obligation to through today's debate and to confirm them in accordance with our domestic legislation. What exactly is this about? When it comes to information and communication technology, the driver of global economic development, as such, has confirmed our country's commitment to IK technologies by adopting the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in the Republic of Serbia by 2020, which states that the development of an information society needs to focus on exploiting these potentials, to increase the efficiency of labour, economic growth, increased employment and raising the quality of life of all citizens of our country. In this regard, today we are talking about confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the IT area, aimed at joint strengthening industrial, technological and economic co-operation. The economic operators of both countries will be able, through recognition of qualified services, to switch to electronic business in mutual business, which is faster and more efficient than classical business. The mutual recognition also means that citizens and economic operators from one country will be able to use online services from another country and vice versa, leading us to further strengthening and economic progress both our countries and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Furthermore, I will talk about amendments to the CEFTA Agreement, namely the chapter relating to services provided by the CEFTA Party to develop and extend co-operation in order to gradually liberalise and mutually open its markets for services in the context of European integration, and taking into account the relevant provisions of the General Agreement on Trade in Services under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation and the obligations of the CEFTA Parties as members of the WTO towards the GAC. The liberalisation of trade in services, in accordance with the GAC, provides for the removal of six types of restrictions relating to the measures affecting free market access, which must not be applied to foreign services or their suppliers, if their application is not clearly indicated in the list of obligations. In addition, it is necessary to ensure equal operating conditions for domestic and foreign service providers. In other words, provide them with national treatment. Any difference in treatment must be clearly indicated in the list of obligations, in order to allow it to be applied. The additional protocol six on trade in services consists of basic text and three annexes. After technical harmonisation, the CEFTA Joint Committee adopted this additional protocol in Tirana on 18 December 2019, and as I said, it is our obligation to confirm this through the conversation today. Finally, what I consider to be of paramount importance for our country, which has been said a great deal in the course of last year, and today again is the opportunity to confirm this and to say that our Government adopted, in September 2019, the text of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eurasian Economic Union, or its Member States, on the other hand. The agreement was signed by six prime ministers in Moscow a month later, that is, in October 2019, by the six prime ministers: Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation and the President of the Governing Committee of the European Economic Commission, on the other hand. The signed text of the agreement is also very modern and in spirit and in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, and as an initial basis, it took the existing bilateral free trade agreements that the Republic of Serbia has concluded with the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Kazakhstan. The high degree of trade liberalisation applied under the current Free Trade Agreements of the Republic of Serbia with the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Kazakhstan is retained, i.e. it will be extended to new members of the Eurasian Economic Union, i.e. the Republic of Armenia and the Kyrgyz Republic. With the Republic of Serbia acting, this is very important, further liberalisation of exports to the Euro-Asian Economic Union market and an increase in quotas. These concessions will somewhat reduce asymmetry in the liberalisation of agricultural products that now exists in the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation. The agreement with the Eurasian Economic Union retains privileged exports to the Russian market, which was one of the main objectives of the negotiations. It should be borne in mind that about 90% of the total trade between the Republic of Serbia and the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union refer to the Russian Federation. The new agreement allows access to the Euro-Asian Economic Union market for about 99% of customs tariff goods, i.e. for a market of over 180 million people, and for our businessmen to benefit from these benefits. The agreement with the Euro-Asian Economic Union is not only useful for our businessmen operating with countries in this market, it is also a very important motive and a call for foreign investors and investors to come to our country. This means new jobs, new factories, new production and new strengthening in different sectors of the economy. For a trade free of charge, customs duties must have origin, as has been the case so far, i.e. a rule of origin of 51 must be satisfied; the goods must be produced fully in the Republic of Serbia, or sufficient processing has passed, i.e. the processing so that the value of the material of foreign origin used in the production process must be less than 50% of the value of the goods exported. It will not be considered sufficient to process the process of preserving goods during storage or transport, designing shipments, sorting, repacking, washing, cleaning, painting, simple assembly or disassembly of goods to parts and the like. I have to point out this because of previous bad experiences, so just once again tell our businessmen that we can do very well as responsible people and increase our exports and ensure a high degree of economic and economic progress for our country. The agreements will apply after the entry into force, when parliaments of all six signatories ratify the agreement. Finally, the ratification of the proposed legislative solutions, I mean all the three agreements I talked about, does not create specific financial obligations and burdens for the Republic of Serbia, but rather a new chance for economic growth and development and progress for new factories, new jobs, higher wages, for a better standard of living for our citizens, which is the goal of this government and our policy of President Vukic and this ruling majority. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to give full support to these proposed solutions in today's constructive debate and to adopt them for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71744	Thank you. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71745	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we have a set of draft laws ahead, as Minister Sinisa Mali announced in the introduction. As far as this first draft of the law confirming the loan agreement, most of it, nearly half of the appropriations are intended to support the Republic of Serbia's Science Fund, somewhere around 22.5m euros. As a Social Democratic Party, we talked about the Law on Science recently adopted and not only as a parliamentary group, but also the Social Democratic Party of Serbia programme itself supports education and provides for such a good approach and strengthening of universities in Serbia and scientific institutions, so that we simply see this as a serious support. What needs to be pointed out about this section of science and education is that certain programmes of the Science Fund will be financed. These are grants for scientific projects, grants for applied research to encourage the integration of the private sector and research and development, as well as cooperation with the European Union in order to facilitate access to some of its funds. It is estimated to support around 220 competitive scientific projects involving nearly 8,000 researchers from 40 institutions. As for the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia, today he is before us, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this agreement was signed by the Vice-President and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Mr Rasim Ljajic at the end of August 2019. As everyone knows, economic co-operation between Serbia and Northern Macedonia is mainly based on the trade exchange that is on one satisfactory level and takes place without customs charges, as we heard, and based on the multilateral free trade agreement CEFTA. What is important, the adoption of this law will have the greatest impact on economic operators, but also on the citizens of both countries. Why do I say that? When it comes to economic operators, it is thought of those entities that will, through the recognition of qualified services than trust, stand in the material that we have received, be able to move in mutual business cooperation to electronic business, which is much more efficient, as we know, and faster than classical. As for, on the other hand, mutual recognition also means that citizens and economic operators from one country will be able to use exactly online services and identify themselves through their electronic identifications that are equally accepted in both countries. Finally, as so far Serbian certificates and electronic signatures have not been recognised in Northern Macedonia, and vice versa, the two countries recognise each other's package of qualified services, as it is said, are electronic signatures, electronic stamps, electronic time stamps and registered electronic identification systems. In this sense, this law will also make these services available and positively affect both countries' development. I can point out that this agreement will in particular strengthen the co-operation of the Regional Chamber of Commerce Nis with the Association of Entrepreneurship of Serbian Companies in Macedonia or in the short name of AIDS. As far as the Free Trade Agreement between Serbia and the Eurasian Union is concerned, as we know, has been agreed almost two years ago, i.e. two years ago, and since we have heard several times in public both from Minister Ljajic and the Prime Minister, including the president, these negotiations have not been easy at all, they have not been easy. This agreement before us today concerns all five countries of the Union, consisting of Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, Armenia and Kyrgyzian. Of course, it is of great importance for Serbia, which is why it is necessary to repeat more times for citizens to hear why this is such an important agreement for the state of Serbia. As the minister said in the introduction, it is a 180m market and the agreement covers 99% of Serbian goods that will be released from customs, which will create favourable conditions for further and successful co-operation in other areas, including trade. Mr Ljajic, as a resolute minister, has repeatedly pointed out that Serbia is expecting new investments thanks to this agreement. It's a new approach to the new market. So, the countries of the Eurasian Union, the Economic Union, as well as the countries of the European Union are potential investors, and especially with regard to the countries of the European Union, think about those if they produce their products in Serbia. According to the Resort Ministry of Trade, currently 743 Serbian companies are exporting goods to the Russian market, with an offer of more than 1,200 products. It is this agreement that will primarily protect our 743 companies that export to the Russian market and which are now allowed to export to other markets of the Eurasian Economic Union. In this way we create a more favourable climate, of course, especially when it comes to our country's economy. At the time of signing the agreement, it has been speculated in domestic and regional media that Serbia is entering the Euro-Asian Economic Union by signing the agreement. I have to say that this agreement that's in front of us today has nothing to do with politics, it's all about trade. As I said, more than once, Minister Ljajic had to deny such stories regarding Serbia's free trade regarding the Euro-Asian Economic Union being exclusively trade-related and there were no words about politics, and as he pointed out, he said -- there was no one there to call us. For the sake of the public, I must say that even in this agreement that is before us today, there is a provision on the cancellation period, so that everything is defined in the agreement itself, it is precisely known when we as a Member State can cancel the agreement. As far as political connotation is concerned, our policy is absolutely clear, so Serbia's political priority is the European Union. When we speak for the public as well, and the minister also said in the opening statement that 65% of the trade in goods with the European Union, and only 7% to 8% with the Euro-Asian Union. The agreement is particularly important for foreign-owned companies, and they work in Serbia because of eight of Serbia's top 10 exporters, such as "Tiger Tyres", "Tetrapaka", "Hemofarma" and other foreign-owned companies. The agreement certainly required Serbia to sign first of all because of the businessmen, in order to keep that market, the government has signed, the assembly will ratify it these days, practically the state has done everything and has done its part of the job, it is now up to the businessmen to organise themselves better in order to use, conditionally speaking, privileged status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71746	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71747	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today's set of proposals for an agreement that needs this Assembly to ratify shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia in fact does not stop its results in the area of economy and is not satisfied with what it has done so far, but is moving forward and what the way of Serbia's development is showing our European path, but also co-operation with both the East and the West. That's exactly what these agreements we have on the agenda today show. The first is a loan relating to Serbia and the EBRD, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in terms of a project to be led by the Ministry of Education, which will form a project management unit as part of its work, which will prepare documentation for these projects, and for financial management will be assisted by the Ministry of Finance with its special unit that is simply working, after all, all projects of the Republic of Serbia. The project of acceleration, innovation and promotion of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia shows that the IBRD is actually up to 31. 12. In 2019, there are 33 drawn lines totaling 2.2 billion euros. The project is worth 43 billion euros, with it showing its implementation being carried out in three components. Why are we saying there are three components? Because these three works should, in fact, include a large segment of scientific and research work, but also this link with small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. with entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia, and this is how our economy differs from other economies in the Western Balkans region, which is that our drive towards an economy that seeks to increase the number of foreign direct investments slowly moves from real investment to the management of the knowledge economy, which means that in particular new scientific and research projects, the development of innovative solutions that will go directly into application, the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises and the implementation of our economic system, have the support of the state and therefore our young people who are already at school have a vision of what they will do in the future. The IBRD project should, in co-operation with the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, provide a reform of the scientific and research sector, for which 34m euros were provided, of which 22.5 specifically for scientific projects, eightm euros for the reform of scientific institutes, for which you know that at the time of the economic crisis, when others led the country irresponsiblely by 2012, were completely devastated and where our scientists could not receive salaries for nearly half a year. Therefore, there is a reform of the functioning of scientific and research institutes, which is very important in general for the development of science and technological development in Serbia. In the end, three and a half million is one significant amount of resources that we essentially want to establish our relationship with our scientific diaspora, which means, first of all, to network all the people who have gone and worked on prestigious scientific institutions in the world, but also to give them a chance to come back here and open their small and medium-sized enterprises, to do science, to simply apply everything they've learned here and the state for it has understanding and will give support. The second component of this project is the acceleration of business in this direction. It has been provided from these 43mm euros, for project innovations, for the opening of businesses, as well as technical support of twom euros. Finally, the component three involves project management, monitoring and capacity building, and this is exactly the unit that will be formed within the Ministry of Education. What's very important is that we within the state system and the apparatus have to have people who will simply be profiled to be professional, that they can manage these projects. It's very important for us, because if you don't have such people, then through these projects you're going to have to pay foreign evaluators and foreign contractors who will manage projects and thus simply, firstly, our people won't know they're doing the job, and on the other hand, it's going to cost a lot more. This way, we relieve the budget, we teach our people who are already in this profession to do this job and that they can be able to run for some of the following projects. The next loan proposed at today's session is the Obrenovac - Novi Belgrade heat pipeline construction project, otherwise supported by China's "Export-Import Bank". The "Export-Import Bank" is normally owned by the state, or the budget of the People's Republic of China and it, with its investments here in Serbia, has mostly focused on travel infrastructure, but now we see that this part of the infrastructure that is very important to us when it comes to heat pipelines, when it comes to environmental protection, is also helping to reduce the degree of pollution. The amount of the project is 193.75m euros and 164.68 is actually the amount of the loan itself, 15% is the participation of the Republic of Serbia for the project. It is important to say that for the previous loan, and for this loan, the deadlines for the previous 12 years are for this 15 years. Realisation of the project is very important, based on a memorandum signed between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Serbia in 2017, and a commercial contract usually signed between Toplana Belgrade itself and China's Power Construction Corporation of China only now, in January 2020. This means that we really work extremely responsibly as a state, we prepare projects, based on these projects, we withdraw certain funds based on contracts that we have with both the East and the West. The third contract is a contract that is a ratification of an agreement where Serbia and Macedonia go to mutual recognition of qualified services that are of special trust. We're a country that's really gone a long way, when we're talking about the digitalization process of electronic business, and when we talk about the electronic stamp and when we talk about the electronic signature and in general, about the exchange of data by electronic means, when it comes to companies themselves. This has so far not been defined and legally valid between countries such as Macedonia and Serbia, and by signing and a political decision to form "Little Schengen" between the three countries is now practically opening up many opportunities for economic co-operation and this is, in fact, one of the obstacles that is completely skipped in terms of market development, in terms of services and simplification of the process itself when these three countries are covered by "Little Schengen". When we talk about a loan, i.e. a proposal for an agreement concerning Serbia and the Euro-Asian Union on free trade, it should be said that we as a state have signed bilateral agreements with both Russia and Belarus and Kazakhstan. Here, of course, was the idea to join together as one document, by signing with the Euro-Asian Free Trade Union, a high-level agreement. The agreement would then involve two other countries such as Armenia and Kyrgyzstan, and then we actually entered into one process that lasts and opens up great opportunities for us. We're talking about market liberalisation. We are talking about the additional liberalisation of Serbia regarding exports and when we say, let's say, we have a chance to export more than we have so far, two thousand tonnes of cigarettes, 35,000 liters of alcohol, 400 tonnes of cheese and unlimited in terms of fruit brandy, goat and sheep cheese. So we're talking about increasing our trade exchange. Of course, all of this is free of customs duties, and that is why we were obliged to allow the import, or trade exchange, to increase with us, too, within these products. Serbia with the Eurasian Union has, however, kept customs duties on several products of great importance. It's white sugar, ethyl alcohol, motor vehicles and tires, new tractors. Russia will be allowed to continue imports into Serbia without customs collection for all agricultural products, with that, you know, if certain problems have been created that much greater sanitary inspection controls have been established at border crossings, so as not to bring about certain problems that have arisen in relation to certain re-exports of EU products. On imports into the Union, the EU Union from Serbia, of course, kept customs duties on livestock, white sugar, wine, ethyl alcohol, cigarettes, cotton fabric, compressors, cooling devices, passenger cars, tractors, as well as used tyres. Why am I saying this? Because today when you have a market where there's great competition, where the fight on the market is ruthless, when you have really one responsible foreign and internal policy, when you have developed an economy, then you have a chance that you position yourself on that market exclusively in the way that your companies show how responsible they are, how serious and how economically capable and powerful they are, after all. Since we have such small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the area of the food industry and agricultural products, it is very difficult to get out of these borders first, and then when you are allowed to do so, then you really need to show that you are extremely responsible in those markets and that you can never cheat on any country when it comes to exporting any product. Serbia has proved to be a good partner here, and therefore I think the Euro-Asian Union has recognised it and it will not harm us anywhere. Some say that it now cuts us, when it comes to European integration, when it comes to trade with EU countries in general, we export, so our exchange is 65% when it comes to EU Member States, 7% of it is with the countries of the Eurasian Union. As long as we can, until we become a full member of the EU, we have the right to work with the European Union and it simply does nothing to prevent us. When we talk, in the end, about Additional Protocol 6 on trade services, it is an agreement that speaks about free trade with Central European countries, that is, for CEFTE countries. We also heard from the minister that it is very important in fact for the liberalisation of our market and the greatest benefit of Serbia, precisely our co-operation with the CEFTE countries, that out of 3.3 billion euros in transport, 2.1 billion virtually belongs to Serbia, that we are achieving a surplus when it comes to our products and our trade in goods in general. What is important to say is that through this we are in fact showing that we are really able to operate on both the markets of the East and the markets of the West, and this represents a major step in the economy and the sure way that in the future we will have a secure charge of the Republic of Serbia's budget, a stable economy, and that we have reason for and as SNS headed by our President, Alexander Vukic, to come up with a 2025 plan that we are really talking about Serbia's future and the future of our children. In Voting Day, we call on all political parties to support these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71748	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf the users of the House of Refugee Hair services of the Gerantological Centre of Belgrade, which are currently monitoring part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Please welcome the guests. Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71749	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there are five important and important agreements ahead of us. Unambiguously important and important four agreements that I will not talk about, my colleagues will talk about in the context of the order of the registered MPs, and I will put the accent on one agreement in my presentation, and this proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Foreign Trade between the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and the Euro-Asian Economic Union and its Member States, on the other hand. I believe that the SPS parliamentary group believes that joining the economic Euro-Asian Union is of great importance to our country's economy, of great importance and importance to the economy of our country, because we are actually talking about a market that involves 183 million people. So, under this Agreement, Serbia will be able to export almost 100% of its products without paying customs duties. This is a new and large market for our products, and it is important to say that economic co-operation when it comes to co-operation with these five countries and five members of the Eurasian Union, in the past time period, has been the most dynamic and intense with the Russian Federation. In fact, with the Russian Federation, we have signed the 2013 Strategic Partnership Agreement. The agreement was aimed at developing both economic and trade co-operation, but the agreement was aimed at and that political relations are taking a single upward path. This is exactly the agreement that has resulted in bilateral co-operation today very good, going the way forward, in all areas of social life. This Union also has a basis for political co-operation, which is an additional framework for improving political co-operation with the members of the Eurasian Union for us. The agreement is important for Serbia, it is important for the economy, it is important for the economy, but also important in the context, because it strengthens Serbia's relations both politically and economically, with members of the Eurasian Union. It is certainly in Serbia's interest that Serbia has as many agreements as possible. I would also like to point out in particular that this is about Member States, the countries of the Euro-Asian Union, which had a very principled position, when it comes to unilaterally declaring the independence of KIM, because none of the five countries have recognised the unilateral declaration of independence of KIM, which we consider to be a boost and an incentive for an even stronger partnership that we need to achieve with the Union and with each member who is a representative of the Euro-Asian Union, because in the further process of political struggle, which will be very difficult for Serbia, and I mean, of course, the defence of national and state interests. It is these countries that are members of the Eurasian Union that can be a great support as traditionally friendly-oriented countries on an international and international political stage. When it comes to the Russian Federation, since I said Serbia had the most intense and dynamic co-operation of these five countries with the Russian Federation, I would like to say that Serbia attaches enormous importance and importance to relations with the Russian Federation, that we have extremely good and developed bilateral relations in all fields, that we have relations with the strategic partnership, the traditional friendship of our two peoples, therefore, and religious and cultural, historical, linguistic closeness, Slovenian closeness between our two peoples, the unbreakable brotherhood of our two peoples, which developed through strong ties in official relations of 181 years, since the official establishment of diplomatic relations between Serbia and the Russian Federation. Of course, a huge incentive to develop the relations between Serbia and the Russian Federation is being given by the president of our countries, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin. What I also want to point out, and I think it is very important, we as Parliament, as the voice of the people, as representatives of the citizens, have very good, intense and dynamic co-operation with the parliaments of the Russian Federation. Namely, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has signed agreements with both homes of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, and the Commission for Co-operation of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the highest level of bilateral co-operation the National Assembly has at the moment and is unique in relations with the two countries, Russia and China. Last week in Moscow, we held the Fifth session of the Commission for the Co-operation of the State Dum and the National Assembly of the Russian Federation, on which, of course, we are always considering important and important topics. Since it was a similar topic during yesterday's National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for example, an initiative that was launched and a topic that was of great importance during the Fifth Session of the Commission for the Co-operation of our Parliaments is, of course, logically, going to meet to mark the 70th anniversary of the victory over fascism. Of course, we have paid great attention to this subject and to something that is a huge monster of humanity today, and that is the re-emergence of Nazism. The President of the State Dume Vjaceslav Volodin launched an initiative on the establishment of an institute for the preservation of historical memory just to prevent the revision of history, just to prevent the revision when it comes to the participation of our soldiers and Soviet soldiers during World War II. Of course, the president of the National Assembly accepted, in principle agreed to the initiative. She is now going to agree and this initiative will be forwarded to the presidents of our countries, President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandr Vukic, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, but of course also to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this initiative is of enormous importance and importance to Serbia, because when we talk about the revision of history, in fact about preserving historical memory, it's not just about reviewing memories, it's about the survival of a people, and I think it's our common obligation to preserve inherited assets. And I think that, with all this, science needs to be included, in order to preserve the truth about the creation of a free and modern Europe. I would like to remind you that the fourth session of the Co-operation Commission has just been held here in Belgrade at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that then the President of the State Dume addressed the people's MPs, the Serbian public and transferred one to us, for the SPS Parliament club an extremely important and significant message from the President of the Russian Federation, which is that the brotherly Serb people can always count on the support of the Russian Federation. Also, when we talk about co-operation with parliaments, we have very good and intensive co-operation on a multilateral plan in terms of co-operation with international parliamentary organisations, where both countries have their representatives and members. Of course, we always point out one fact and a valid thing, which is that we owe great gratitude to the Russian Federation, that's what I said in the opening statement, when it comes to a principled attitude on the subject of unilaterally declared independence of KIM. We are truly grateful for this because it shows that the Russian Federation respects the universal principles of international law. It is also important to support the Russian Federation in what Serbia is seeking, and what is the intensity of the Republic of Serbia, which is that a compromise and fair solution can be reached through dialogue that will be acceptable for both sides. We also express great gratitude for the multilateral plan when it comes to the opposition of the Russian Federation to be part of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo and to be a member of any international organisation, because it rightly defines itself as a guardian and builder of a more fair international order based on respect for international law and based on respect for the general principles and objectives declared in the UN Charter. Serbia stands in principle and consistently for respect of one principle and the principles of international law, as well as for the achievement of the principle of free and equal co-operation on the international stage without imposing sanctions as a means of coercion. Good political co-operation has also enabled what I was talking about at the beginning, which is good economic co-operation. An extremely important segment of bilateral relations has enabled good economic and economic co-operation. The Russian Federation is today from the strategic economic and leading foreign trade partners of the Republic of Serbia. Very good political relations have provided a good basis for improving this co-operation, they have contributed to the Russian Federation being one of the most important business partners of the Republic of Serbia, both as an export destination and as a foreign investor. We also attach, as I said, the enormous importance and importance of economic co-operation with the Russian Federation and we are interested in the more strongly present of Russian companies and Russian capital on our market. We want to promote all common relations, especially in the areas of industry, infrastructure, telecommunications, energy, agriculture, construction, Serbia is particularly interested, this is generally known, for supplying Russian energy, co-operation in the field of energy is very successful, and the Republic of Serbia is extremely important that the Russian side considers the priority route of the "Turkish Stream" pipeline. During the previous days, we also had a visit to the Russian Federation's defence minister, we support military-economic co-operation, defence co-operation, police and culture, support the co-operation of cities and regions, as well as the co-operation of two churches. When it comes to other members of the Evoassian Union, I would also like to stress that when it comes to Belarus, Serbia and Belarus in 1994, they entered diplomatic relations, as newly founded and friendly states, the first Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then took over Serbia-Montenegro, and since 2006, the Republic of Serbia as an independent state. The first understanding and co-operation agreement was signed with Belarus in 1996. Lukashenko, the president of Belarus visited Serbia several times, but what is very important was that he visited Serbia when it was very difficult for Serbia, during the period of NATO aggression and NATO bombing in 1999. We have a signed Free Trade Agreement, and over 10 bilateral agreements have been signed, so the doors of Belarus are wide open to the economy, especially in the area of construction, especially in the areas of agriculture, telecommunications, the dedicated industry, and we are further dependent on the development of economic co-operation. I think signing this agreement is just a step forward towards even better co-operation. Dear counterpart Dragoljub Karic, is not today, unfortunately, here I hope he will join us, is a consul in Minsk and he knows that currently at the cost of exports Belarus is 34 partner of the Republic of Serbia, and according to imports in 37 places. What we think as a Parliament club is that not all the benefits of partnership and friendship with Belarus have been used and we believe that this will be repaired in the next period of time and we believe that this agreement creates a good and realistic basis for us to realize it. When it comes to Kazakhstan, diplomatic relations were established in 1996, intensive co-operation since 2010, the Free Trade Agreement, the visa-free regime, and diplomats and ordinary travellers, say 2016 data, say that external trade is about 30.000.000.000.00 dinars. With Armenia, bilateral relations between Serbia and Armenia were traditionally good and established in 1994. The example for 2017 was 76.8m euros in goods, at the 17th summit of the heads of state, the government of Francophonia, which took place in October 2018, in... Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic also participated. We have three signed agreements. Kyrgyzstan, diplomatic relations were established in 1994, and the total volume of exchange in 2017 is in words... It amounted to 14.44m euros, out of which our exports amounted to 11.745m euros and imports of 2,699m euros. So, we believe that by signing this agreement, as I said, another step more in our relations with the members of this Union and the openness of this Union to Serbia is a great opportunity, as I said about the economy, and above all, when we talk about the economy for agriculture and the processing industry. Of course, this agreement will have the support of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in the voting day, as well as the remaining four agreements, and the other four agreements will be discussed below by my distinguished colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71750	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71751	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Mr. Minister with his associates, today there are indeed a number of interesting topics and I will pay my attention to one of the points of this agenda, and this is the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for a foreign project on construction for the Obrenovac thermal line construction project - Novi Belgrade, between China's Export - Import Bank, as a lender and the Republic of Serbia, etc. etc. This matter is close to me, because of the construction of the Obrenovac - Belgrade thermal line I have listened to since the early 1990s, when the project of building a bridge was launched that, next to the thermal power plant, was first supposed to be just a bridge that would serve to transfer the pipes with warm water to the other side of the Sava River, to Bolevci and allow it to be transported to Belgrade. Why am I talking about this? I am talking because I want to underline a clear parallel of what a great responsibility the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the very city of Belgrade, has towards Obrenovac in the last eight years, unlike in all previous periods. The project was not completed by just a bridge to carry hot water across the Sava River, but at the insistence of Obrenovčan, it became a bridge today which connects the left and right coast of the Sava River to the Termo power plant "Nikola Tesla A" in Obrenovac, but to this day the heating project has not been realised. I have to say, one of the reasons why it wasn't realised wasn't just finance and it wasn't just money, it was just one extreme boast and an incorrect relationship between the big city authorities and Obrenovac. Obrenovac was partially covered by warmth during that period and of course it was perfectly logical to pay proper attention to the expansion of that network and to provide funds for it. We from Obrenovac at the time and older than us insisted that Belgrade's thermalisation project be joined as a small item and that the network of heat pipelines in Obrenovac expand to a fully functional continent. This has not come on the agenda today, since we have stopped somewhere in that period as ditches on both sides of these talks and negotiations. We did not want to allow only so that Belgrade would be even cleaner and more beautiful and heated on our burden, and that Obrenovac would not get what it deserved. It seems that we were also citizens of the second row and this project and this loan show that the situation and the picture has changed seriously. The conclusion of this loan contract will enable the next thing, which is very important for Obrenovac as well, which is that today a contract will be signed on the construction of the so-called so-called construction. Third highway. It is this third highway that should increase the stability, functionality of the Obrenovac heating system, but also enable it to expand and allow the system to cover and place Urovca, Krtinska, Belo Polje, Zvečko and all that is cost-effective and useful to be covered by heat lines. Obrenovac is a city that has suffered from the fact that "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plants are placed where they are and I don't think that there should be any special controversy, and that in previous times there has been no adequate compensation for it as the middle of what these two extremely significant power plants, the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plants A and B are located in the territory of Obrenovac, because the huge surfaces are covered by ash. The compensation was not achieved, even in the 1970s and 1980s, when it was done. All of them forgot the heating of Obrenovac during that period, they forgot the expansion of the water network, and it is an absolutely undeniable thing that the existence of these dumps ruined groundwater and made it impossible to use drinking water from wells. Only in the last eight years, by changing power, something serious has been happening in this field and Obrenovac, with the help of the city of Belgrade, good co-operation, with it primarily, but also with the Republic, extends its water network in a very systematic way and I hope that within three years, this great handicap, which we have had, covered and rehabilitated and provided what we all seek, that all of us living in the territory of the city of Belgrade will have equal or approximately equal living conditions, regardless of being in the center of Belgrade or somewhere at the end of Dren in Iveric, at the end of the municipality of Obrenovac. Toplification and this story I'm talking about is important for another reason. Large experts who had been in power before us were planning to shut down the A1 and A2 blocks on the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant because they were reportedly inefficient, because they pollute the environment, because they are unnecessary and probably would have put out one block in Serbia, so Serbia, instead of a country that has full independence of the energy system, put in place a complete addict. This loan and the construction of a hotline towards Belgrade creates conditions to preserve the functionality of A1 and A2 blocks as it requires their complete reconstruction. They're what we call old Russian blocks, but very functional, very good, very useful. An investment of 200m euros that sounds quite serious is nothing for the ultimate effect achieved. In order for the hot water to go to Belgrade, the A1 and A2 blocks must be reconstructed and continue to function. One public delusion, which is not here amongst us that we have at least asked about, is that it is wastewater that goes into the Sava River and that is something that is absolutely free. It's just not true. Taking hot water to Belgrade costs. It will reduce the production of electricity, but when all the final effects of this are seen and estimated to lead to 40m euros in savings in Belgrade annually, then there is really no dilemma that this investment should be fully completed. Of course, there has already been a process of securing the deforestation system, greening the surfaces around the ashes and strengthening the embankment, because there is a key factor in all of this. The power plants are working and they'll work. It should work to make them as small contaminants as possible, but this, conditionalally speaking, loss that I just explained is actually a huge environmental gain, because, as I understand it, it will provide a prerequisite for almost all individual heats on the part of New Belgrade to be extinguished, and I think that some future plans can ensure that this network is spreading to the other side, but that we are not getting into something that I really don't understand, because I'm not technically educated and ready to get into that story. So this, apart from strengthening Serbia's energy independence, protecting the environment, the savings it will make on Belgrade's heating, will reduce pollution in Obrenovac itself. It is good that there is an extremely good coordination between the republican government, city authorities and public enterprises, which are more responsible today and are really becoming socially responsible companies. The third highway in Obrenovac will not finance this loan, which we are talking about today. But, resultingly, EPS is a third highway contractor, as a socially responsible firm, and we can only really welcome this kind of approach and attitude towards the environment, which has been pinched for many things in the previous, so for God's sake, it's already forty and a few years as thermal power plants, and more than forty years, they've been working on the territory of Obrenovac. Of course we'll support all these suggestions. We are very pleased to see the possibility of social responsibility being expressed, the possibility of it being a stable economy, a stable business, a certainty in finance. However, I must add, I am not so sure that a great contribution to the social responsibility of EPS towards Obrenovac does not encourage and that the first man of EPS is from Obrenovac and as I do and as those who live in Obrenovac know what Obrenovac is facing and has had the courage, opportunities and conditions to prove as someone who manages this large system that EPS is responsible, hence his own responsibility. It is in line with the policy that we are constantly listening to, because a good host in the company, a good host in the public company, is a good host in every local self-government, which is based on the policy of Alexander Vukic, which we, as the Socialist Movement, support and follow, and this is one of the most important examples of how a good host, who knows the problems of his environment, the environment from which he was involved, and how from one company, which was not so socially responsible earlier, translates into the waters of absolute social responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71752	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71753	Honorable presence, ladies and gentlemen, these are important agreements and deserve support. The MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation party will support them in the voting day. I would like to refer specifically to this agreement, which will provide material support, so innovation programmes, acceleration of innovation and incentives for entrepreneurship. I think it's one of the very important programmes for further dynamication of overall development, and I'm glad we have some kind of a design between programmes that encourage the affirmation of our young talents, on the other hand and entrepreneurship, i.e. fostering entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship. I've pointed out more than once, and I'm going to say it again, that every country has its own extraordinary potential. Some countries have oil, some have other treasures, this country and this wider space have extraordinary talents, young brains that unfortunately these days, months, lately rivers have run west and are impoverishing this space. I'm glad that we have recognition of this problem from the government, not only in the form of a problem, but also in recognition and reaction in a way that tries to enable the ambience and platform in which they will best and they will find their place at home, here, because we live in the space that the Almighty Creator has built, that everything God has given is the most beautiful, and unfortunately what people have done is far from it. I am very pleased that the government has recently been defined by the Ministry of Education in the direction of the establishment of technology parks, which is, in fact, a space and mechanism for the affirmation of young brains, talented and for their promotion. However, what we lack is even development in that field. We have long adopted the principle of even development, but we still have the fact that the most significant part of the projects is moving towards those centres that are usually the most developed. So now we have certain areas of land that have been neglected. In that sense, I have a concrete idea, and I have verbally exposed it to the Minister of Education, and here I now want the MPs and all those present, but also to inform the public that it would be extremely important for us to also access the project of establishing a technological park in Novi Pazar. There are conditions for that. All it takes is some will and cooperation on the relationship between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Defence. There we have extremely serious facilities that belong to the army at the site of Novopazarska Banja, which are now abandoned empty, ideal ambience in both natural and other terms, where they can adapt and prepare for a technological park in the city that now has two universities, which is located in an extremely important place with the structure of the population. Despite the dramatic eviction, it is the youngest city in Europe towards natural growth. I think it would be a great shame and injustice to leave that part of the country, that is, this city and the Sandzak area without a tech park where young people would get a chance to be affirmed in their own exceptionalness. Unfortunately, in recent weeks, we've had, through the media, monitored that certain structures of power in this city, businesses, political and criminal, are interested in this space, that they've been fighting over this space, because it's, among other things, investment and economically, a very interesting space, but to help them end these disputes, to determine that space for technology park, for the future, for education, for innovation, for investing in young brains. This is what will benefit both the local community and the wider community and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71754	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71755	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, the signing of a growing number of agreements with many countries, or unions, clearly speaks about how dynamic growth is recorded by Serbia. Then, the growing competitiveness of Serbian companies on the market and the importance of these agreements for Serbia, for its economic growth, for better living standards for citizens. The agreement between Serbia and the Eurasian Economic Union will extend the list of products that we can export to the premises of this Union, primarily without customs duties and with now increased quotas. The agreement will benefit Serbian businessmen, but also represents a great motive for the arrival of foreign investors. The proposal for a law on the validation of Appendix 6 on trade in services, as well as the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for the Obrenovac-Novi Belgrade heat pipeline project, unequivocally state that the accelerated economic development of Serbia is evident, of course, and that with a growing number of investors the need for further development and investment in infrastructure projects, in which Serbia has become a leader in the region. While in Serbia, as I said, major infrastructure projects are being done as never before, we never had construction sites in Serbia, until in the town of Sapcu, they collapse and do some kind of radical reconstructions. Nebojsa Zelenovic, who appeared to have undergone good training at Djilas, Obradovic, Jeremic, Bastac and others who not long ago demonstrated a destructive tendency in front of the building of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the building of RTS, in Belgrade's squares, so the trained Nebojsa Zelenovic began to demonstrate a whole new policy in Sapac. With the already known oppression of workers by public enterprises and the destruction of them, he began to demote Shabac with his reconstructions of the square, especially the last of Zorka's famous soloist, whom the Chapcans had already called, the square, "the hanger's market". No wonder in the past year, Djilas, Obradovic, Jeremic, Jovo Bakic and other wastes of Serbian politics and Serbian society have gone through Sabac, until all those who think otherwise are going to hang in the Sava. Zelenovic took this programme of his political teachers very seriously, so such a square has already taken urban purposes, which, as I said, the Sapcans have called "the hanger market". But, that's not all, the other day Zelenovic went to the badgers on the youth of the town of Sapca, in the centre of Sapca, in the Benska Bar, where he quickly, insidiously, overnight destroyed the children's playground and children's playground, the only such species in this densely populated part of the town center in Šapac, on the ground where children played backwards, engaged in sports, and many significant athletes gained their first experiences and later won many medals. The people came out to stop the insidious Zelenovic and his machines. That's where the high school kids and the basics and the students who grew up there found themselves. Zelenovic told everyone that there will be no more ground here and that they have nothing more to look for, and as serious as it is, it also confirms that the personal Sabbath political spirit of Dusan Petrovic, who, the eyewitnesses say, has entered a bile debate with children and eventually threatened them. So on the one hand, we have the full rebirth of Serbia, one successful Serbia and the other, some opposition local leaders, who have been found guilty in court, and are not convicted just because their case is outdated, as is the case with Nebojsa Zelenovic in Sapac. I guess it's a birthday present from Dusan Petrovic, who continues to hold and control one part of the Serbian judiciary that tasked with that famous judicial reform. Serbia is a successful state today, and that is why these experts are not allowed to go to the polls, because they have nothing more to say to Serbian citizens. Their actions, or misdemeanors, speak enough of them. And this pathetic attempt by the united tycoons of Serbia, decorated in Miskovic, Šolak, Gilas, and I am talking about the film they funded about Alexander Vukic, is nothing but the full lack of confidence of Serbian citizens, but I would also say a great fear of the Property Origin Act, which will soon be in front of Serbian citizens and the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71756	The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71757	Thank you. I did not mention, in the opening part, the proposal for a law confirming Additional Protocol 6 on trade in services of the Agreement amending and joining the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe. The minister explained this in detail in the opening part, and I would just like to say to the public that, among other things, in this agreement, the protocol itself, that is. Article 6 of the Special Obligations List, where each party is said to contain, in relation to the sectors in which such obligations have been made, under one, conditions, deadlines and restrictions relating to market access, under two, conditions and qualifications for national treatment, then, where possible, the timeframe for application, as well as the date of entry into force of those commitments. Furthermore, Article 7 states that the parties are obliged to submit, by written request, the Sub-Committee for Trade in Services to amend the list of specific obligations subject to the procedures laid down in Article 47. CEFTA by agreement. When you say free trade, there's always some potential suspicion. Therefore, through Article 9, this Additional Protocol also provides for transparency in the work through time-limits for publication, means of publication to the general public, and in particular international agreements relating to or affecting trade in services. In addition, in items 3, 4 and 6 of this article, the appointment of the so-called so-called ‘. contact points for services according to Article 44. CEFTA, and of course, regularly at least once a year, as it stands, inform the Sub-Committee on Trade in Intents, Amendments, Supplements to Regulations, Acts and Laws of the Signatory Member States. In the voting day, the SDPS will support the draft laws on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71758	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71759	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Serbian citizens, the respected ministers with associates, dear colleagues, are in front of us, as we have heard, a set of laws among them under points 2 and 3 of the proposed loan agreement. Somehow, when it comes to Serbia, we always hear the loan first and always react to it first. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will try to explain, although, Minister, in the opening statement, you spoke very precisely about what this is about, I will try to explain that the Serbian government and the Assembly have today made a decision to advance the lives of Serbian citizens by means of such agreements, i.e. proposals for legislation. Namely, the first draft agreement concerning the loan for the project of accelerant innovation and fostering the growth of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia has been very precisely defined. You said, Minister, in the opening statement of what it means, first of all, in the development of our enterprise, but what is very important is that it is structured through the implementation of activities divided into three basic components, the first one – the reform of the research sector, which is defined by certain means, which means that it will be supported by the Republic of Serbia Science Fund, that reforms of the Research and Development Institute will also involve a programme of co-operation with the Serbian scientific diaspora, in that first part and the first component. The second component of acceleration also consists of several sectors, and this will primarily concern the Fund for co-financing of the technical assistance programmes as such. So we are talking about a loan that will really improve our entrepreneurship, which is a basic prerequisite for improving the quality of life of Serbian citizens. Under point 3 is the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for the construction of the Obrenovac thermal line. My colleague Komlensky talked about it exhaustively, and I really don't have much detail to add. They first concern the better quality of life of Serbia's largest city, i.e. its inhabitants, Belgrade and Belgrade citizens. All these investments are definitely no spending of money, no government and state debt of Serbia without purpose, but a very conscious use of funds to improve the quality of life. What we also have today as a bill of law is a confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on mutual recognition of qualified services from trust provided to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. It is very important to say that in the region of Serbia, at this point, there is status, above all, stability factors and the most stable state, when it comes to the Western Balkans area. In this regard, we also have the obligation to perhaps make more effort than our neighbors and when it comes to improving co-operation. That is why we have this Agreement on Co-operation with the Government of Northern Macedonia. Once this law has been passed, this country will mutually recognise a qualified electronic signature, a qualified electronic seal, a qualified electronic time stamp and a registered scheme, or electronic identification systems. This is just another step forward in so far great relations, bilaterally, between Serbia and northern Macedonia. Perhaps the most attractive agreement from the proposed is an agreement with the Euro-Asian Economic Union. The Euro-Asian Economic Union is a community of countries with political, economic, military, customs and humanitarian co-operation in the Euro-Asia area. The members of this Union are, but we've heard this before, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan. It was officially established on 1 January 2015. Serbia's accession to this Union is of great importance to our country's economy, as this agreement opens a market of 183 million people. This is a new and large market for our products, and it is important to say that business co-operation is the most intense with the Russian Federation with which we have the Strategic Partnership Agreement signed in 2013. He aimed primarily to improve the economic and political relations of the two countries, resulting in a genuine improvement of bilateral co-operation in all areas of social life. What I have a duty to say is that no member state of this Union has recognised the independence of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo, and it could actually be and is another of the more important reasons for Serbia, in relation to the members of this Union, to have a truly friendly relationship, as they had with us. The signing of the Economic Co-operation Agreement with the Eurasian Union is another step in our relations with the member states of this Union and the openness of this Union to Serbia is a great opportunity, and above all for Serbia's economy, including agriculture and processing industry and Serbia's most significant partners in the area of foreign policy remain EU member states and CEFTA signatories countries. The agreement in general for Serbia will also have political, but also huge economic importance in the coming period, and we therefore consider it a strategic interest in Serbia. Finally, the last proposed Act confirming the Additional Protocol on Trade in Services of the Agreement on the Change and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe or CEFTA, whose Serbia is also a member, is not less important. Col. Jelenkovic spoke precisely about members who define behavior within the CEFTA. I firmly believe that this bill will also complete this co-operation that has been able to unilaterally be violated by some of the countries that are members of the CEFTA. What I want to say at the end, and leave a little time for my colleagues who will speak after me, is that today is the World Day of Social Justice and an opportunity to remind ourselves that it is only possible if we work together to eradicate poverty, violence, gender inequality and reduce unemployment rates. On this very day, all of what we are going to vote as Parliament and support the government is about to reduce what could be a social injustice. It is important that, as a society, we encourage solidarity and responsibility to those who are the most vulnerable. In Serbia today, the highest risk of poverty is under 18 years of age, families with three or more children, older, sick and unemployed. Social policy measures should include support for all of those categories of population, as social justice is achieved by fighting poverty and respecting diversity through equality, solidarity and creating equal opportunities for all. The policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia was precisely that, to boost economic growth, to improve the quality of life of its citizens, and we today have agenda points that go exclusively in favour of it. For all of this, as a reason for the SPS, it is quite enough for MPs in the voting day to support all proposed drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71760	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71761	Thank you. I will try to continue in the spirit of what Academyman Zukorlic said, and it concerns the really better position of young people who have chosen science, scientific research and the incentive of their current and future projects. As a university professor, I have daily contact with current students, but also with those who have completed their master's or doctoral studies and who are in the environment in which they are needed, these kinds of projects, scientific projects and scientific and financial support are very much needed. This is where I'm going to talk specifically about the Sandzak space, which I know very well. I don't know what it's like in other parts of the country, but I do know that in our space, taking the overall economic situation, so very often different visions of pressure, and then nepotism and partocrats, young experts, young people very often can't reach the level of success they're really showing according to their talents and their scientific achievements so far. For these reasons, not wanting to bend their spine towards any powerful man, they often go on their way out of the country, and in this way we as a society lose what we have most valuable. However, when they come into this situation to get even the slightest chance in a Western country, they become the best experts in any branch and thus we invest our own brains, our own talents in the economy and all other sectors of the Western European countries, and we as a society become extremely weakened and what is most valuable in our society becomes actually someone else's property or other potential, quality. That is why it is of little importance that we really invest as much in research as possible, as much as possible in research projects of young researchers, and in particular that this is evenly deployed, that the concentrations of these scientific projects and centres are not only happening in large, let's say, centrifugal parts of the state like Belgrade, like Novi Sad, but that we have an even distribution in all parts of the state. You have heard of the potentials of New Pazar, the potentials of two universities and the need for a technological park, so that these young people, full of energy, full of research, full of desire for new knowledge, but limited by current capacities, stop, stay in these areas and allow them to develop equally, to gain their youthful, and all other experiences, in their own country and thus invest their knowledge in the development of their own state, and very often some of their achievements that can often be measured with those achieved at the most important world universities and scientific research centres. Therefore, this project, concerning investments in scientific funds, would be of great importance with one observation that this second part of the diaspora investment, and I do not know whether it is unfortunately formulated as investing in the Serbian diaspora, I think it should be better to define it more precisely - investment in the diaspora of the Republic of Serbia, because we have a large, large number of young people, researchers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are not Serbs, who, by their potential, scientific and all other means, can make a great contribution to the development of both our countries and all of these projects, and therefore I find it unfair to refer to it as being so that this part of the scientific loan is aimed only at the Serbian diaspora of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of religious, national or any other belonging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71762	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71763	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, today I will talk about agreements on the agenda and of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. As regards the first one, which is the proposal for a law to confirm the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is the means to finance the project of acceleration, innovation and boost the growth of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia. The project aims to improve the relevance and excellence of scientific research and innovative entrepreneurship, and implementation is divided into three basic components - reform of the research sector, business acceleration, implementation of the project, monitoring and capacity building. All three components of the project directly and jointly contribute to the implementation of the science and technological development strategy of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the improvement of the business climate and the creation of new jobs. The Ministry of Education, Science, Technological Development in co-operation with the Science Fund and the Innovation Labour Fund will be tasked with coordinating and implementing the project. Science and innovation are factors of competitiveness and sustainable development. The basic preconditions for creating an innovative knowledge society are the excellence and relevance of scientific and research results. The excellence is a measure of quality and international visibility of scientific and research results, and the relevance is an impact of scientific and research results on the economy and society. We must bear in mind that knowledge-based society requires high knowledge, as well as the application of it to new products, processes and services. In the developed part of the world, material and financial resources are constantly invested in research, innovative work and human resources. I am particularly pleased that the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the importance of research where it had a vision, brought an important strategic document, i.e. the Innovation Research Strategy from 2006 to 2020, and the creation of a new strategy for the period from 2020 to 2027 called on the Ministry of Education to include relevant institutions and professions in order to make this strategic important document more inclusive, so that all social groups and individuals have the opportunity to contribute to the quality of the same. The Serbian economy and society through a field of development based on science and innovation will contribute to economic growth, social and cultural progress, raising citizens' standards and quality of life. What is very important in this project is a programme of co-operation with the Serbian scientific diaspora aimed at attracting young people, perspective scientists, researchers and entrepreneurs to make their skills and skills available to their mother. A few words on the bill to confirm the loan agreement for the Obrenovac-Novi Belgrade heat pipeline project between the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender, and the Republic of Serbia represented by the government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the finance ministry as a borrower. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on 17 January 2020, and the National Assembly is to confirm it, or ratify it. The basis of this financial agreement is the Economic, Technical Co-operation Agreement in the area of infrastructure, signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China in Beijing in 2009, aimed at improving co-operation in the area of important infrastructure projects. Realisation of a heat pipeline project from the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant in Obrenovac to the new Belgrade heat plant was agreed on the basis of the 2017 Memorandum of Understanding. On 26 December 2019, the government concluded a new contract for the implementation of a project whose conditions are not significantly deviating from the previous 2017. The reason for the break-up of the old is that the funds under the contract are not approved within 540 days and the reason for the change in the currency clause from dollar to euro is a more favourable condition for borrowing on the financial market. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the mutual recognition of qualification services of trust provided in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia - this international agreement provides for the possibility of cross-border recognition of qualification services from trust, which fills the space for improving and improving bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia, although they are generally assessed as good. Economic co-operation between the two countries is mainly based on a trade exchange that is on a satisfactory level and takes place without customs charges under the CEFTA agreement of 2006. Given that information and communication technologies are a driver for global and economic development of co-operation in this area, it aims to strengthen industrial, technological and economic co-operation. The mutual recognition of qualifying services from trust will contribute to the elimination of barriers to economic business. By passing laws, the two countries recognise each other's qualified electronic signatures, the qualification electronic seal, the qualification time stamp and registered electronic identification systems, which will have an impact on the economic operators of both countries, as it opens up the possibility of moving to faster and more efficient electronic operations. It will also be available to citizens in the other and vice versa, which will have a positive impact on the country's economic development. The draft law confirming the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia on the one hand and the Euro-Asian Economic Union and its Member States, on the other hand, has spoken a lot and affirmatively of this agreement by my distinguished colleague, the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic, and I will add a few more words. The agreement was otherwise signed in Moscow on 25.10.2009. It was signed by Ana Brnabic, prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia, Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus, Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic, Dmitri Medvedev, Russian Federation Prime Minister and Tigran Sarkis Syan, on behalf of the Governing Committee of the Eurasian Economic Commission, on the other hand. The Republic of Serbia has so far had a high degree of trade liberalisation in very valid free trade agreements with the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Kazakhstan, and will now be extended to new members of the Eurasian Economic Union, i.e. The Republic of Armenia and the Kyrgyz Republic. So far, the Republic of Serbia has had about 90% of the total trade exchange with the countries of the Euro-Asian Economic Union, the most relevant to the Russian Federation. The new agreement will allow access to the European Economic Union market for about 99% of customs tariff goods, and it is for businesses to benefit from these benefits and is also a motive for the arrival of foreign investors and investors. The free trade regime applies to goods which have met the criterion of origin of goods. More specifically, the goods are produced entirely in the Republic of Serbia or have undergone sufficient processing, so that the value of the material of foreign origin used in the production process is not greater than 50% of the value of the goods exported. The current rule of direct purchase will be abolished, resulting in significant profits for our large exporters. As a condition for abolishing this rule, the Serbian side has accepted a Russian request to strengthen the controls of legal persons participating in the shopping chain to prevent possible abuses of preferential status. I must point out that the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation have traditionally multiple friendship relations, and in this 21st century relations are successfully developing in all fields, both political, economic, cultural, military and other types of bilateral relations. Further quality of these relations was given by the Declaration of Strategic Partnership signed on 24 May 2013 in Sochi. Bilateral political dialogue at high and highest level is regular and intense, besides Ambassador Alexander Bocan Harchenko in Belgrade, I quote, "Serbia and Russia have never had as good co-operation as today." These days we are witnessing that we have further improved military co-operation with the Russian Federation, which is confirmed by the arrival of Russian Federation Defence Minister to visit Serbia Sergei Soygu. This co-operation in the area of defence takes place in line with the Strategic Partnership Declaration. And to conclude that we will continue to work to bring new agreements into line that will continue to improve the institutional framework of bilateral relations. Proposal for a law confirming additional Protocol 6 on the Trade of Services, the Agreement amending and joining the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, the CEFTA Free Trade Agreement in the Balkans in Bucharest in 2006 was signed by Serbia, BiH, Macedonia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Moldova, Romania, Montenegro, Albania and the UN temporary administrative mission in Kosovo in accordance with Security Council Resolution 1244. By the end of 2007. The agreement has entered into force in all signatories. By creating free trade in the Western Balkan country, they opt for economic and economic development, showing they are capable of running a common economic policy, which shows and stresses the European perspective of the region. Otherwise, CEFTA was founded back in 1992 in Krakow, Poland, and this alliance then became a ticket for the EU and countries that want to become members of a trading organisation must first spend some time in CEFTA. We are also witnessing that no one specifically responded to a breach of the CEFTA Agreement by the authorities in Pristina, when it introduced 100% of its taxes on imports of goods from Serbia. This breach of the agreement will not only harm Serbia, but the entire Western Balkans region. Economic integration of the whole region would create a bigger single market, which would be significant for large investors to arrive. Chapter 6 of the CEFTA Agreement refers to services and foresees that the CEFTA parties will develop and expand co-operation in order to gradually liberalise and mutually open their markets for services and in the context of European integration. Adding Protocol 6 to the service trade was adopted in Tirana on 18.12.2019. Therefore, it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to confirm, in accordance with its legislation, additional Protocol 6. Agreements amending and joining the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote on those draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71764	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71765	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, there are five agreements ahead of us today, I will talk about them, but before I begin to explain the agreements, I really must turn around to present what Slavisa Lekic, journalist "Today", this fighter, as a fighter for freedom of the media, is actually a fighter for his own pocket. Citizens are looking at empty benches and envys, and parliamentarians are complaining, and then this part is painted, really empty, but it's been going on for a year, people haven't been coming, part of the opposition, not the whole opposition. There are honorable people here who understand why we're here. We work here for our country. It's an honor and a privilege to be here, because we represent the people, defend their interests. There are people who also think and get their salary, and the gentleman says, "Parliamentarians live, enjoy everything else." So that I don't talk that it's not true and that we have great privileges and we make everything and everything out of this Parliament, we can look at it, it's a great shot, really people don't come, they get great wages and they don't come. I'd do it differently, but who's asking me? What is important, I will quote people from the opposition who are coming here, and that is Mr. Vladimir Djuric, who says nicely, MP of the Modern Serbian Party: "Send work is honorable and demanding. Serbian parliamentarians are the least paid in the region," he says, I say -- I am very pleased with my salary. Thanks to the state for paying us, maybe less. I work for the interests of my party, my people, above all, work for the state. Then he says, “There are no journals, ” the truth. "The municipal restaurant is adapted to the nutrition of employees in the Assembly, true. The only privilege I have, says Mr. - is to expose myself and my family to maliciously cheap populism. That's his attitude. I'm proud to be working here. What does Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić say? She also believes that the only privilege of parliamentarians is to drive a tram and bus along the display of a parliamentary card. So much so that it's known for this people that they don't think we're here to boast, not on the contrary. We're very decent people, we do our job well and we work for the state. As far as the agreement is concerned, I will talk about the draft law confirming the loan agreement. A loan to negotiate a foreign project on construction for the Obrenovac-Novi Belgrade heat pipeline project. It's very good to talk about these agreements today. Why? Because we're strengthening bilateral co-operation. Mr. Alexander Vukic, the president of this country is leading an extremely wise policy. It brings people together, makes friends, and that's why we've had a mass deal since 2012, and that's why this country has reached plus 3.5% of GDP from minus 3.5% of GDP. We've got big investors. Why? Because we're the arrangements of the country, because we're a factor of stability in the region, because people are interested in coming and investing here. Among other things, as far as this agreement is concerned, let me add that we were on the Duing Business List in 186. What does that mean? At the speed of issuing building permits, we're 42 today. We have 54,000 open construction sites in the country. We're working, Belgrade looks a lot different than 10 years ago. Serbia looks much nicer. That's how it works, that's how the responsible government works. As far as the deal is concerned, it's a great pleasure to talk about him today, because he has two improvements. First of all, we'll adopt him for reasons to reduce the emissions of harmful gases. What is more important to me is the supply of heat from Obrenovac, to Belgrade, to New Belgrade, because it will permanently solve the problem. In fact, it happens that in some inter-periode when there's no central heating, since we have children, it's very cold in apartments, and by voting for this agreement, we're going to sort it out. Thank you for your attention, the SNS will vote with joy on all the proposals of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71766	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71767	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, money is earned, mostly through the production of goods and services in the market economy. So in order to make money, you have to have the goods that are sold. To sell goods, you have to have a market where the goods will be sold. In order for the product to be sold, it must meet the relevant criteria, there must be marketing. In order to transport services and goods, you must first of all have large exports in small countries. Otherwise small countries can't be successful. To do that, we have to have investments. A country without investment is a car without fuel. So, just downhill. The product you sell, to find the market, has to be of the same quality, if not better than similar products, because you can produce two million chairs, but if you can't sell them, if you don't meet all the conditions, if you don't have agreements, if you don't have a market, if you don't have a satisfactory product, in which case, if you produce two million of these chairs or five million appliances, they're just museum exhibits. So, future museum exhibits, because you can't sell them. That is why foreign money is important to me, but also important investors. So, domestic companies that were founded by foreign capital. Because these companies usually bring in a piece of the market. These goods are then manufactured for a known market. In order to attract this, you need to have adequate infrastructure, roads, telecommunications, etc., to attract not only investors, but also to have the goods you produce and raw materials you import have the appropriate conditions for fast transport. That's why you need highways, railroads, etc. You don't have to choose the market. CEFTA's very important. It's our biggest surplus. That's why I welcome all agreements that in the environment accelerate the flow of goods, services, people, capital, etc. But I also welcome the agreements with the Euro-Asian Union. I don't want to give up the EU market. I'll describe it to you in a agricultural way in the following sentences. The export of apples to Russia, I must warn our farmers that Russia has been rising lately a large plant of apples, a large area, and to try to produce as many pears as possible in the future, because those on domestic and foreign markets have a large gap, are a little harder to maintain, but the offerings are almost identical with apples. Over 90% of our apples end up exporting to Russia. I'll get you some raspberries. More than 90% of raspberries are exported to the EU. Now, to ask us to give up apples or raspberries, for us farmers, it's not an instruction. If we give up the EU, we give up certain ways of exporting raspberries, and if we give up the Eurasian Union, then we give up apple exports. So I think all markets are equally valuable. It is to export 66% of our goods to the EU, because we have the highest surplus in CEFTA, but there is no need to ignore the markets of the Eurasian Union, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, etc. I think it's a valuable market and we have to fight to make as much goods as possible. The goods are money. To sell these goods, to serve our debts to abroad, to service the purchase of goods we buy from abroad and to share with the rest of the money and that money will come to every one of us in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71768	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again the ruling majority has abused the Rules of Procedure and we are once again discussing the draft laws in a joint debate, which should not be the subject of a joint debate. The Rules of Procedure say laws can be discussed if solutions are linked to each other and if they are conditioned with one another. There is absolutely no conditionality here, and I don't know if Mr. Mali or any of these economic experts from SNS will be able to explain in which way they are the inter-conditional hotline from Obrenovac to New Belgrade, with e.g. The Free Trade Agreement and the Eurasian Union. This, probably in your opinion, would not have been possible without each other, but it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that you are, in fact, simply reducing the rights of the opposition and shortening the time for the debate we would otherwise have. As far as this first law is concerned, that's the second one in this joint debate. It's a heat pipeline from Obrenovac to New Belgrade. You know, it'd be good if it was done a lot sooner. I know you're going to say that these former regimes didn't do it, but a lot of these regimes went through, it could have been done 20 and 30 years ago, and who knows how many years ago, maybe those of the SPS bear the greatest responsibility, because it's the ones who have been in power since the last 75 years in Serbia, and five years ago, and when you listen to their speeches, you'd think someone uninformed, these people have been in power since yesterday, for nothing, they haven't decided anything, simply as pure as morning dew. As for the draft law confirming the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eurasian Economic Union and its Member States, the SRS welcomes any co-operation and any progress in co-operation between Serbia and friendly countries. When I say friendly countries, of course this is primarily about Russia, China, Belarus and similar countries that primarily support both territorial sovereignty and the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We are absolutely against every form of political association and continue to depend economically and politically on the EU and its leading countries, all of which are against the Serb people and who are the enemies of Serbia. It cannot be called otherwise by someone who bombes Serbia, someone who is economically trying to destroy us, someone who will always side by side that is contrary to the interests of the Serbian people. I don't know what it takes more for you to regain consciousness and see how endangered the Serbian people are, to stop telling these stories about how we are some kind of stability factor in the Balkans, because neither we are a factor for anything, and certainly we are not a factor for stability. If you're so powerful, if you're able to stabilize the surrounding states, why don't you do it in Montenegro? And how is it possible for someone to pass such a law that flagrantly violates the rights of the Serbian people, which is practically destroyed and the rights of the Serbian Orthodox Church are abolished without anyone responding? It is the EU, but by saying that demonstrations and lithium in Montenegro are primarily Serbia's fault and that the means of information in Republika Srpska and Serbia, because they are the ones who are misinformed about what is happening in Montenegro, which is probably why citizens are on the streets. Secondly, I don't know if you realize that they will always take a side that is against Serbia. Do you understand that at any time they can destabilise the Republic of Serbia, as they have done by making a Constitutional Court decision in which the majority have three foreigners and two Muslims and that, whenever they wish, they can shake Serbia and the Serb people. It is clear that the West's relationship with the Serbian people is not changing and will not change soon. So why so, answer that question, because you claim to be our great friends, even though they are persistent in action, they are not. We have recently heard from the mouth of the President of the Republic of Serbia that a powerful European country has asked Pristina to impose sanctions, i.e. to impose charges on Serbian goods in such a way that it directly violates the CEFTA agreement, signed on behalf of the southern part of the province by UNMIK. You, Mr. Mali, know as the finance minister that you've been charged and these sanctions and this violation of the CEFTA agreement has been going on for over a year. I would like to hear from you what Serbia has done to prevent this, and I would ask you what would be the reason for any of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to vote on this proposal for a law confirming Additional Protocol 6 on trade in services of the Agreement on the Change and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, so CEFTA Agreement, so that citizens at the end of the small screens would be more clear? Serbia is a signator of the CEFTA agreement. As far as Serbia is concerned, the CEFTA agreement is not respected. So, what is the reason for Serbia to remain under an agreement in which there is no right? In essence, the CEFTA agreement is binding on all signatories. If you could just keep it down a notch, the minister's on the phone, and I'll talk a little more quietly, so he doesn't mind. But it would be good if you from the regime were to throw as quietly as possible. So the question is, how long are we going to agree that when it comes to Serbia and when it comes to the Serbian people, no rule applies? There used to be a krill that all the rules, i.e. that it was allowed to break any rule when it came to Serbian radicals, and then it was against Milosevic that all the funds were allowed, but we essentially see that this is not about any individual party, that it is not about any individual leader, but that the principle of leading Western countries is that when the Serbian people are concerned not one principle or any rule. I asked Minister Siniša Maloko several times, and I asked Anna Brnabic to answer the question whether Serbia had received an answer, because after the introduction of these 100%-to-Serbian taxis, Ana Brnabic said that in accordance with the procedure, a compromise solution would be found within 90 days, that she had initiated an appropriate procedure before CEFTA and announced that after the 90-day period of time, a lawsuit would be brought to the CEFTA arbitration court. It's been over a year. I also asked Minister Maloko several times, I also asked Ana Brnabic, I even asked a parliamentary question and asked if Serbia had filed an appeal against the CEFTA arbitration court in line with the promise of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? If it is, when, and to deliver that lawsuit to me. If he didn't, I asked him to answer why that lawsuit wasn't filed. You keep your mouth shut, and that makes me think you're hiding something, that for some reason you didn't press charges, and that someone told you that if you possibly did, that such a lawsuit was condemned to failure, such as, besides, any address by Serbia to any international court that is under the prejudicial influence of Western countries. Please answer these questions, Mr. Mali, because without it we really cannot decide whether Serbia should continue to remain under the CEFTA agreement, if we do not know whether any rule and any guarantee contained in it applies to Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71770	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71771	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. A series of untruths related to the Serbian Progressive Party's policy have been presented here. First of all, Serbian citizens know very well that there were never better relations in the political, economic, military sense between the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and the Russian Federation, or the People's Republic of China, on the other, except at the time of Alexander Vukic's term. We have suffered and suffered, and today, terrible pressures from the West on at least two issues -- in the matter of imposing sanctions on the Russian Federation and on why the Republic of Serbia is arming itself primarily with Russian and then Chinese weapons. We didn't accept either pressure. It shows how attached we are to friendship with those countries that were friends when it was the hardest thing for us. There is no saying, there is no saying that the Serbian government, or that the president of the Republic of Serbia, is being subjective to the West, to the European Union or to anyone else. That's what Serbian citizens see very well. As for the situation in Montenegro, because of Serbian citizens and those who are very concerned about the Serbs in Montenegro, I have a few facts to say. Before any of these great Serb defenders in Montenegro even heard that Milo Djukanovic is preparing a law on freedom of religion, a representative of the Republic of Serbia, it is the assistant minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cedomir Backovic, a member of the Venice Commission, to whom Montenegro sent the draft law on freedom of religion, is the only but literally the only one to oppose the draft law on freedom of religion, which was voted in the Montenegrin Assembly in January this year. And one more thing to tell you, and that shows how difficult the position of the Republic of Serbia is and how many relations in the international community are not fairy-tale as you show them, is our friends and here our enemies are at a session of the Venice Commission to vote on whether the Law on freedom of religion, or the draft law on freedom of religion, is at that stage, in accordance with European standards or not, the Republic of Serbia has remained alone. A representative of the Russian Federation has not arrived at all, and a representative of Cyprus says he is late. That's what you should know. This isn't popular to say. Yeah, yeah, just laugh. I love these great Russians very much, you know, Mr. Arsic. But no one is going to buy a Ladu Nive, all of them are buying a 150,000-euro Land Rover. But it is not good for the European Union! Here, now we're signing, or ratifying the agreement with the Euro-Asian Union, brother dear, you can buy Lada Niva for 5,000 euros, which you can throw so much money at enemy products! You directly then finance the UK industry when you buy their 150,000-euro jeeps. But let me look back on something that's much more important. What Mr. Sarovic has just said is in direct contrast to what Milo Djukanovic's regime claims. I direct Milo Djukanovic, through his television, every day claims that lithium in Montenegro, that civil protests in Montenegro are funded and organised by Aleksandar Vukic himself. And here in the National Assembly we've been hearing stories for two months that Serbia is not doing anything! Now the question is asked - and what is the truth? Milo Djukanovic says that as we do, it is we who organise protests in Montenegro, and then listen to the stories of these great supporters of the British automotive industry that we are actually doing nothing in Montenegro. And that's how we do it. That will end, Mr. Arsic, thank you for having the understanding -- have you noticed that when all Serbs, or Serbian representatives, come to Belgrade, whether they are from Croatia, are they from Republika Srpska, are they from Montenegro, who they come to? They come to this great traitor, with this great reseller of Serbian national interests, who is about to sign a binding agreement for Kosovo, which is about to give up Republika Srpska, who is doing everything according to the dictatorship of the West, and this man is called Aleksandar Vukic. But what you cannot accept is that the eyes of the Serbian people in both Croatia and Republika Srpska and Montenegro are directed towards Alexander Vukic. They have no better protector of their own interests than the current president of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71772	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Four minutes from the time of the MP's pack, since you've exceeded your time. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71773	So, if you ask, Mr. Martinovic, who Milorad Dodik is coming to, he comes to see whoever's calling him. At Milosevic's time, after that at Kostunica, after that at Djindjic, at Boris Tadic's, etc. Does that mean whoever Milorad Dodik came to, he's a patriot? Is that the logical clue that you're going to conclude? The other thing is, you're talking about who voted for what on the Venice Commission. You say - the Russian representative did not come, and the Cypriot was late. That's right. Here, the Russian didn't come, and the Cypriot was late. What did the others vote for? What did your friends from the West vote for? This is exactly the confirmation of the thesis that I presented – Serbia has no friends in the West and that is the only truth. Neither the Russians nor the Cypriots voted but were voted by the French, English, Germans, Italians and others who recognised Kosovo's independence, who continue to kidnap it and who welcomed Kosovo's introduction of a tax on Serbian goods. That's the point. Whatever it is against Serbia, whatever it is against the Serbian people, whether it is Kosovo and Metohija, whether it is Republika Srpska, whether it is Montenegro, wherever the Serbian people are, those you are talking about are our friends, whom you propose to go to the European Union, they are against us. They're against us because they're our enemies, they're not because of the Russians or the Cypriots. You are like those who blame not NATO who bombed and killed in Serbia, but say – they are the Russians, they did not stop. And here at the Venice Commission, and if they were Russian representatives, could they prevent such a decision from being made by the Venice Commission? No, you wouldn't. Where are your friends, that's a question? You say you're respected in the world, you say you're a factor of stability in the Balkans. So where are your friends? When the Serb people are hit, there are no friends of yours. It says that your policy is false, that the story of Serbia's entry into the European Union is a failure for the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71774	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71775	I can't hear the answer – then why didn't you buy a “ladu level”, but a “land rover” of 150,000 euros? What are you buying from the enemy? He who finances the enemy industry works against the interests of his own people. That's one thing. The second thing, I told you, first of all, what you said shows that you had no idea how Serbia fought for the Serbs in Montenegro at the Venice Commission, until I brought these facts to you. I put it out to show you that relations in the international community can't be simplified to represent themselves as you do. There's our friends, there's our enemies, and then let's turn to our friends. We are primarily a small country trying to find partners in the political, military and economic sense both in the West and the East. We're too small to say - we'll just cooperate with them, and the rest of us, we don't care, they don't exist on the globe of the Earth. We have been listening for four years since the great patriots, of great patriots, to the great protectors of the Serb people that Vukic has almost signed a legally binding agreement with Pristina, only that he did not give up Republika Srpska, that he did not give up Serbs in Montenegro. And what of it all happened? It didn't happen anything at all. What part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia is lost by Alexander Vukic? Not one inch of state territory has been lost. We defend the Republic of Serbia, defend the Serbian people in Montenegro, but we must also defend the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro in such a way that we do not endanger the Republic of Serbia, because if Serbia is in danger, where will we go? Where are we Serbs going? We don't have a back-up country. We can't get out of this island. And you'd run off to Great Britain, and you'd be happy to be admitted there. I know that, it's nothing to argue with. But what about us who don't drive a Land Rover, where do we go? Where do we go? And we don't have American dollars in American banks, do we, like some of you do? So, I'm a supporter of patriotic politics, but then show that patriotic policy at every step, and not on the words you're patriots, and by every move, you're doing everything contrary to what you're saying. I am today and who knows how many times, as well as my colleagues from the SNS asked all those who criticize Alexander Vukic's policy – tell us what the alternative is. It's okay, Alexander Wolfie's politics is bad. What's the alternative? What's the alternative? What is it that you offer Serbian citizens, not just you, and those from Dvora and Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic and all in a row? What is the alternative to Alexander Vukic's foreign policy? Isolating? Turn our backs on one side of the world and turn on the other? Should we be collateral damage in the conflict of great forces? Well, that's what we had. That's what we had in World War I and we lost a million people, that's what we had in World War II and we lost a million people, that's what we were in the '90s. Why should we, little Serbs, be a coin to be a bribe for the big ones? We know that there are countries that favor us more and countries that are less fond of us, but the world is like that, the world is full of injustice. You can't find another world. You live in a world as it is and you have to run a real national policy both internally and externally. We have run unrealistic politics many times in Serbia. Whenever we felt that the fate of the world depended on us Serbs, we Serbs experienced heavy losses, both in biological terms, both economically and materially, in both cultural and in each other. The fate of the world is not up to us. As climate change does not depend on Serbia. I cannot accept the tendency that the fate of the world climate depends on whether Serbian citizens drive diesel cars or not. That doesn't depend on Serbia. That depends on the big ones. But let the great things go to great countries, and let us turn to ourselves and our interests and stop having the illusion that love and harmony rule in the international community and that only friends and enemies exist. There are partners, there are countries that are more agreeable to us and countries that are less partial to us. Our task is, and that's what Alexander Vukic does, those who were not fond of us during the '90s, we can't turn overnight into friends. You of America, of Germany, of Great Britain, cannot expect to be on the Serbian side overnight, when they have not been on the Serbian side since 1990. But at least to be a little less hostile to us than they were in the '90s, to avoid those situations where we had to suffer sanctions, bombings and anything else that caused huge damage to the Republic of Serbia, that our little Serbian boat somehow crawled through those world-wide Scyllas and Haribda. Well, that's Alexander Wolf's policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71776	Thank you. Three minutes and 43 seconds from the parliamentary group. The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71777	As a representative of the regime, Martinovic has the privilege of being able to replicate every six minutes, and I don't have that privilege and I'm going to have to really concentrate on what the subject is. Look how upset they are. Please calm them down, Mr. Arsic, they may be missing the bell. Put some pressure on them to calm down, because I can't speak in these conditions. So you're talking about how Alexander Vukic changes the image of Serbia in the world, but, well, my God, he can't change those who were our enemies overnight. You know, here, let's say, for example. If Hilary Clinton had won, when we gave those two million dollars from the Republic of Serbia's budget, we'd have a friend now, it's your political thesis. Well, unfortunately, Tramp won, well, the testified friends of the Clinton family, they're not able to help us with these current problems. Secondly, you have political arguments, clear political arguments you answer to nonsense, you talk about climate, I don't know about anything, about things that absolutely no one has mentioned. Why? Because you have no political arguments. My thesis is clear, you're saying that Serbia fought lionically in the Venice Commission. What's the score? The result is that they found that the law adopted in Montenegro is in line with European values. If this is in line with European values, then Serbia and thesprian people have nothing to look for in the EU. That's the point. We can't go into a union where they'll take away our churches, list sacred places and say it's Mil Djukanovic's property. That's the point. You say, well, well, we fought, heroically, we're this, and we're that. You're nothing. Your score is zero. You say it's the internal question of Montenegro. Can you imagine that, for example? Serbia, come on, heroes, put such a law on the agenda, let's see that it is directed against the Roman Catholic Church, against any traditional religious community, to see how your friends would jump, to see how it would not be in line with European values. There are double standards, one for the Serbian people, the other for everyone else. Whenever we complain, we're wrong. Whenever a Serb attacks on any basis, he will say, "Well, he's right, it's democratic." There is no union there, there is nothing to seek from the Serbian people, as long as you agree to such humiliations, they will continue to humiliate Serbia. You say a little bit – we must not put Serbia in danger. Isn't Serbia in danger? How many countries have recognised Kosovo's independence, is that not a danger? Is this what they're asking to include Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, isn't that a danger to the Serbian people? Isn't this dangerous in Republika Srpska? Isn't this dangerous in Montenegro? The Serbian people have been hit, more than 20 years since the wars and the bloody collapse of the SFRY, has anything changed since the West? Can anyone, who knows a little about politics, say, well, it happens by chance? Is there someone who's so incompetent, so ignorant that they say it all happens by accident? It's not an accident, the Serbian people are on strike. We have to decide, neutrality didn't bring results, free neutrality when we're under attack. We need to sort everything out with those who are willing to help us, not those who are always taking something away from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71778	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71779	Is it the fact that 18 countries in the world have withdrawn the confession of so-called. The republic of Kosovo does not say that Serbia's position in the international community is even better for a pedal than it was in 2012. Is it the fact that individual and US officials through their statements allow for a compromise solution for Kosovo and Metohija? You've been talking about funding the Hillary Clinton campaign, a lie that's been going on for years. Alexander Vukic did not finance the Hillary Clinton campaign, nor did he support Hillary Clinton's candidacy as president of the United States. He was in the organization of the Bill Clinton Foundation in America to talk to the then mayor of Srebrenica, about how the Republic of Serbia can help the citizens of Srebrenica in money to have new roads, new schools, new hospitals, and so on, and thus showed that it is ready to give the hand of friendship to both the Bosniak people and BiH, but did not participate in the financing of the Hillary Clinton campaign. It is clear that Serbia has many problems and these problems are not since yesterday, but these problems cannot be solved overnight. We're fighting the institutional path. It's easy to tell now what you did on the Venice Commission. And what else could we do when we were alone? What else could we have done when you were left alone? Both east and west? But we are clear of our security, a representative of the Republic of Serbia, and you still didn't know that the draft law on freedom of religion is to prepare in Montenegro. A representative of the Republic of Serbia fought in the Venice Commission to prove that the Law on freedom of religion does not comply with European standards. No one in Serbia had a clue, nor did those who are for Milo Djukanovic, nor did those who are against Milo Djukanovic. That's the fact I put out today, you didn't even know about it. You slept in winter sleep, you celebrated New Year's, who knows where you were while a representative of the Republic of Serbia fought at the Venice Commission for the Rights of the Serbian People in Montenegro for SPC rights. You haven't answered my question, is Milo Djukanovic lying or not lying when he says that everything that happens in Montenegro is instructed by Alexander Vukic? One more thing, we didn't get an answer to the question, which comes to this great traitor, Alexander Vukic, Andrija Mandic, Pupovac, and Dodik, all the representatives of the Serbs from the territory of the former Yugoslavia. What if he's a traitor who doesn't come to you, here, you'll protect them. You're very powerful? You have a well-conceived foreign policy. You have friends in the UK. Well, they don't come to you a little bit, so you can advise them on what to do about the Constitutional Court's decision to advise them on what to do about the situation in Montenegro, so what to advise them on the situation in Croatia. So the question is very simple, what's the alternative? It's easy to criticize. I understand the position of the party that is opposition. You are not responsible for anything, you can be heroic, your policy depends not on anyone's life in Serbia, nobody's life in Republika Srpska, nobody's life in Montenegro, and Alexander Vukic and his policies and how it depends. That is why we have an obligation to lead responsible, thinking and rational, national policy, both internally and externally.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71780	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71781	How thoughtful your policy is, how national and how successful it is, the answer will be given by someone else. Surely you, first of all, cannot give up history, will give up citizens. You know, listening to you, I think we came back for a while while the yellows were in power, they were telling the same story, and just as sharp as you. There are absolutely no ideological differences between you. And they said that the factor of peace and stability is, behold, my God, some terrible radicals can come to power, so what will be? And, here, former radicals came, and now they claim that everything depends on them, and that they bring down tensions throughout the Balkans and around the world with their policies. The result of politics is what we're talking about. But since you know, as you say, Mr Martinovic, and he won't respond to the finance minister, he won't respond to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, let me hear what Serbia has done to prevent our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija from introducing 100% taxis on goods coming from central Serbia, practically preventing and stopping that trade. We've been listening to how they do it on a daily scale of millions of dollars. In these more than a year, maltene for a year and a half, that damage is enormous. Let me hear it, did Serbia do what was mandatory, or did it press charges against the CEFTA arbitration court or not? That's a crucial question. So let's hear how you fight. Please, Mr. Arsic, there's a minister walking around in the O.R., and he's distracting me, and if he has something to add and to tell Alexander Martinovic, he can send him a message, texting, it's not right to walk around the O.R. and telling him how to respond to the MP. Mr. Mali can answer for himself, he has the right to do so as a representative of the promoter and to speak indefinitely if he has anything to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71782	Lucky for you, colleague Sarovic, that you do not hold a session, you would tie up the messengers, it's obvious. And ministers and messengers. So much for democracy. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71783	This is by who knows which way to say that between SNS policy and DS policy, there is continuity. It's an absolute lie. In D.S. time, the so-called "D." Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state. During the ruling of the DS, no country in the world has withdrawn recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. During Alexander Vukic, 18 countries withdrew recognition of the fake state of Kosovo. As for these taxis, what colleagues say shows enormous legal ignorance. If we were to press charges against Kosovo to the arbitration court, we would recognise Kosovo as an independent state. You can't sue someone as a legal entity, as a political entity, and you can't claim that that state doesn't exist. We would thus give them international legal legitimacy. When you sue Kosovo, meaning you recognise it as a party in the process, you recognise it as a state. As far as taxis are concerned, taxes have caused enormous damage to the Serbian economy. That's a fact. Have you ever wondered – and who and in any way besides a 100 per cent taxi, on goods from central Serbia, has provided orderly supplies to the Serb slave people of KIM? Has anyone been ill at KIM since these taxes were introduced, has anyone lost their food, has any babies lost their milk, has anything happened to the Serb people at KIM? Who do you think did it? You. What measures have you taken? That's what Alexander Vukic did, it's what the Serbian government did. Since 2018, there have been 100% taxes and besides these taxis, Serbian goods have been present at KIM. The Serbian people are being supplied neatly. The health system works, the school system works, we preserve the presence of the state of Serbia in KIM in almost impossible conditions. It shows how good Alexander Wolfie's policy is, how thoughtful she is. At the same time, it is proof of how difficult it is for this man to find a solution to a number of problems that he is not guilty of and not guilty of SNS, but which have fallen into our heritage because of the many mistakes we have committed in the past. All this I've said shows that none of you criticising Alexander Vukic, coming from left or right, you have no alternative to what Alexander Vukic is doing. I've been listening all day to how we're traitors, how we're the same as DS, how we're gonna do this or what. I can't hear what concrete measures any of you are, not just today, but in recent weeks and months, proposing for all these problems we've dealt with today for both BiH and Montenegro and KIM and all other issues. We all know what the problems are, and we deal with these problems as a state as we know and know, and we can't hear the answer to what the alternative is. It's easy to tell Wolfie you're a traitor, great. What's the policy you're offering? Gilas would like to return to power without a choice, Vuk Jeremic would like to enjoy his illegally acquired capital. I don't know what you'd do. I cannot hear what the SRS policy is about preserving Republika Srpska's interest in the preservation of KIM. What measures would you take to have Serb goods present at KIM, despite a 100% taxi, except for these measures taken by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Your solution is brilliant, let's sue KIM, and then get black on white, paper that we ourselves have confessed to KIM as an independent state. That's what you're offering as an alternative to SNS policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71784	Comrade Sarovic, I'd like to end up with this circle of replicas, please. You've had enough chance to exchange arguments, and the rest would be just repetition. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, I am calm... ) Comrade Sarovic, I ask you to calm down, you are not calm, let your colleague Markovic have his exposure. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71785	I thank the chairman. He asks a previous speaker on the list of speakers, a great expert on business matters of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, says – in what connection are the proposals proposed? And the connection is clear, the chairman, that the previous speaker would give his speech today. Now, did he come up with it in a bar where he usually makes up his own speeches or someone else's, that's a question for another debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers and associates, today we are discussing a number of important agreements and we have heard in the debate, why it is important to adopt these proposals, and what concrete benefits Serbian citizens will have from it. What we have not heard, it is the attitude of some parties, whose MPs do not attend the meetings of the National Assembly, although they continue to receive wages for work they do not do. Yesterday for who knows which time, they declared some boycott, some campaign launched by the boycott, I think for the seventh time, if I counted correctly, and in that campaign they will reportedly visit towns and municipalities around Serbia, announce some caravans, some trucks, and I only hope that Sergei Trifunovic will not drive those trucks. I'm saying this for their own safety. However, what is more dangerous than that lardy, than visiting cities and municipalities and holding empty speeches, is the announcement of a large gathering, which, as they say, states that they are making that election day in Belgrade and here we see the real goal and the intention of the Gilas alliance. I will remind you that we from the SNS have repeatedly pointed to this danger, which is to cause riots and chaos on the streets of that day, because it is the chairman of them, clearly that they, by means of elections, cannot, or have no chance, and that is why they have declared a boycott, as a pre-prepared alibi for the electoral debacle, and then will try the street road, to try violence to come to power. Therefore, it is necessary to be prepared, constantly alert, and to prevent them from doing so. In parallel with this process, we can see that the propaganda of their media is increasing and that their original anxiety has already grown into open rage, because of the inability to do political damage to Alexander Vukic and the SNS. After that movie, what they call it, and I'm saying it's usually propaganda junk. I deliberately insist on chairing that termology because I think things should be called the right name. We can expect further attacks, new lies, new films, new series against Alexander Vukic. But in their hatred for Vukic, they unconsciously show what really hurts them the most, which is precisely the fact that the Serbian people love Alexander Vukic and vote for him in the highest number. They can only continue to regret the lost elections in 2012, to regret that Boris Tadic lost those elections, to regret that their DS lost the elections, to regret that they no longer exercise power, with always frustration, the fact that Serbia is today incomparably stronger and stronger than in their time, in all fields, both economically and in terms of infrastructure, and militaryly, absolutely in all fields. That Serbia today is far more respected and respected in the world than in their time and that it is the most deserved right now, Alexander Vukic. That is why they will continue to attack him in every way, but the Serbian people well know who saved Serbia from bankruptcy in 2012, who saved Serbia from economic and economic downturn, who in Serbia raised hopes that it could be better and who daily makes efforts to make Serbia a decently done and successful country. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71786	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71787	Can you give your colleagues a word in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71788	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71789	Mr. Arsic, you have violated several members of the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Markovic: Which members? You violated Article 107, you violated Article 103, you violated Article 104. (Alexander Martinovic: You did not understand. You've allowed speakers from the regime, from the ruling party, to say whatever they want, to insult, to tell the truth. I had the right to a replica, you wouldn't let me replicate. I checked in with the Rules of Procedure. You gave your word to Alexander Markovic. Alexander Markovic spoke again about my presentation, extremely negatively qualified him, and it is not enough for you again to give me the opportunity to replicate him. Mr. Arsic, if I'm so politically ignorant, if I'm so disrupting my party's ratings, the question is, why won't you even allow that minimum of rights? Why does it hurt so much? You know very well that when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, he cannot chair the election, whether he will allow someone to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not. You are required to give your word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. Two speakers finish, once Martinovic, twice Markovic and you continue, ignore what I am reporting, which I am asking to point to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. So don't think that you can accomplish anything like this, except to show that there's no difference in having a session between you and the way you did it yellow before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71790	I will not comment on how those before me led before and before the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party to power from this position. You had several replicas with your colleague Martinovic. It had to end once, on one side. On the other hand, a colleague Markovic just mentioned whether you might have prepared a speech elsewhere, which is certainly not the basis for a replica, because he did not even comment on your speech. Now, this third finding. If you are so harmful to your party, and you are reducing its popularity, which is why I do not let you go, believe me, I would be very sorry because parliament without the Nemanje Sarovic would be very boring. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Nemanja Sarovic: No. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71791	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when His Excellency Ambassador Russia to Serbia, Mr. Alexander Bocan Harchenko announced on his Twitter warrant that on October 25th, Serbia would join a free trade agreement with the Euro-Asian Union, all "indigents" were raised, and these are those who do not wish well for Serbia and its, above all, political and economic progress, from the EU, who said it was absolutely unacceptable. At that point, a few days earlier, a new EU commissioner was appointed, a new bureaucrat, who deliberately and tenently reminded you, Mr. Minister, Aleksandr Vukic, Ana Brnabic and all members of the government that this is impossible and that it is a clear EU policy in order to make possible the accession of Serbia, which we are confident will not happen, this failure from the integration of European states, in order for Serbia to leave such an economic alliance. In order not to simplify the whole story, as one fellow SNS wanted to present earlier, I will say that this issue and the role of Serbia and the relationship towards, on the one hand, the EU and, on the other hand, the Euro-Asian integration, in military-politically, here is now this agreement on the economic sense, to deal with how pro-Western, so, above all, our friends, serious people, Russian analysts, as well as from the People's Republic of China, who, in the context of the overall event, NATO's relations with Serbia, tightening the ring around Serbia, the pressure on our southern province. They see this initiative and this agreement as a plan for Serbia's future. Why is that? While on the one hand, I suppose it is in Vucic's head and you who are now humming into the EU's more and more blackmailing EU embrace, there is this plan b), for the Eurasian Union, if this process of Eurointegration fails, the reality is that these integration processes, therefore not only economically, but military, political and all others, are both more natural and useful to Serbia with more aspects. Because these countries are extremely friendly they will never and under no circumstances recognise the independence of the so-called Kosovo, the countries that, above all, the Russian Federation is helping us everywhere and anywhere. The question arises, this is what Serbian Progressive Party MPs always point out here, and these economic analysts like you who are in love with EU policy, that foreign trade is just about 7.5% to 8%, but we need to ask ourselves why is that? He said another colleague, yes, we need to have goods, which would be exported to that big market. Then the question arises who, Mr. Mali, is holding back that we have such production? Why is agriculture and the Stock Fund in Serbia almost inhaled? Why do raspberries have to keep begging you and threatening to burn their raspberries and I don't know what they're gonna do before every season? Why can people who are serious about the production and processing of fruits, vegetables and meat not have the State's help to make it bigger and more successful? I'm gonna do a little dyspression. We almost had the Law on this immaterial cultural goods Serbia, and now when you start from the Euro-Asian countries we can export everything we need, everything they need, and what would be extra from our market, and you and your predecessors have destroyed our agriculture and food industry by allowing them to import huge quantities, largely overpriced and unquality goods from the European Union countries, why would Serbian peasants, why would those who have serious productions and factories not help them to be even more successful, to employ 100, 200, 300 workers more, and small factories to export their goods and how would that exchange be greater? Because this list, adopted by this agreement, gives us the opportunity to do so, and unlike EU countries that are extremely hostile to us, from the countries of the Eurasian Union, the demand for Serbian products is growing and greater, but they are not there. Why aren't they here? Because we're going back to that again, and Mrs. Tomic, and Mr. Mali, that you're not giving at all enough resources and incentives to the domestic economy. You can see that clearly from filling the budget. This is clearly seen in the country's GDP structure. You are giving subsidies to EU factories, which come here looking for, mainly, cheap labour that they pay little, minimal or just something beyond that, factories that will remain uncertain or will not stay here, and you ignore all the opportunities that the Euro-Asian Union is giving not only in the context of Serbia towards the Euro-Asian Union, but also the intentions of the People's Republic of China to take advantage of that link in the "One Belt-One Way" initiative, they say, from Baltic to the Adriatic. So, by your policy, directly, the government of the Republic of Serbia is tearing down the Serbian economy, and in order for the Serbian economy to benefit from this, it would have to have incentives from the state and state to make a clear strategy. What are you going to do, gentlemen, or those who inherit you in these assembly benches, when you get the answer that there is nothing from EU accession or that we are ultimately acknowledging so-called. Kosovo's independence, to make other concessions, and a story has just been told about it, about the protection of Serbs and our SPC. Well, it's the enemies of the Serb people from the EU who run the NATO head, otherwise, of the traitor Milo Djukanovic. I guess you get that, don't you? Milo Djukanovic challenges the state of Serbia to interfere with what is happening in Montenegro. Imagine, eight centuries of SPC independence, our greatest sanctity, and those friends you call your friends are his mentors, those who do not want Serbia well and those who will give up everything. Since I don't have any more time, what's clear is that you can't, of course, because of political profitability, it's going to be your policy and you can also see in the next election campaign, sitting on two chairs. This titoistic equidistance towards one or another block is something that you may be clouding those who are "friends from the West" your eyes, but know that Russia and the countries that are in this congregation and above all and friends from the People's Republic of China, from all the well-intentioned and great forces in the world follow what is happening in our country and be sure that they will never let us down. I will end my speech, of course, with great gratitude and the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin and all other member states of this alliance for recognising the potential and, above all, the benefit of this agreement with the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71792	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71793	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Just a few brief notes. We've talked about it here several times in the National Assembly and I don't think it's a bad thing to repeat it because it's making the wrong impression in the public. The Republic of Serbia has its State Aid Act and what is called colloktimal subsidies, it is actually state aid. State aid and conditions for obtaining state aid equally apply to both domestic and foreign investors, and in this sense the Republic of Serbia is absolutely not discriminating anyone. That's one thing. As for our relationship with Russia, it is indisputable that you and we love Russia, we respect for many reasons, and we need to compete here now who prefers Russia. You love her just as much as we love her from the SNS. I just want to remind you of one thing you seem to have let out of your sight. And before this bill on ratification of the Agreement on the Accession of the Republic of Serbia came to the agenda for several years, we, for several years, can also confirm Mr Risticevic, have signed international agreements with Russia, China and Turkey on exporting pig and beef, or lamb to these major world markets. It shows our energy and our willingness to and how we strengthen and increase our stock fund. Of course, like everything else, things can't be fixed overnight. A decades-long devastation of Serbian agriculture, Serbian warfare, Serbian livestock farming cannot be overcome in a few years, but the fact is that the state is making much, much more effort, much more money to help the Serbian farmer be competitive on both the European and the world markets. What I want to say for the end is that Mr. Risticevic can also confirm, never more subsidies to domestic agricultural producers of Serbia from its budget than it has set out over the past few years for both farmers and cattle farmers. Here, a major competition in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is now under way until 3 April of this year, where the provincial government is funding you more than 70% of the purchase of houses in the country for young couples. This has never happened in Serbia. It is another in a series of measures that the state of Serbia takes through its authorities to strengthen the Serb village, so that young people stay in the country and that Serbian agriculture, as it is, with performances as it is, because we cannot be as strong as Russia, China, Turkey, it is impossible, but we are doing everything we can to be competitive on the world's agricultural market than we were in 2012, and there are results and how visible. And there's one more thing I want to tell you, which you seem to have lost sight of. Until the EU sanctions were imposed, Russia was slightly, as I say, in a relaxed atmosphere. She didn't produce much in the field of fruit growing. These products were mostly imported. When her sanctions were imposed, Russia simply turned to itself. It no longer needs so much apples, pears, strawberries, raspberries and so on, as it had until the EU sanctions were imposed. Why? Well, for one simple reason -- that's what people now produce themselves in Russia. They used to import lemons from Turkey, and now they're making lemons in Russia. They used to import raspberries from us and from Poland, and now they make them themselves. It's also an important circumstance that you must have in mind. It is simply a situation on the world market on which only one part of Serbia can influence, most of it does not.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71794	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic, then Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71795	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we look at the EU with our eyes open, we look at Russia with more heart, but without each other we can hardly. I immediately ask if you think, Mr. Minister, that the Chinese would invest in, say, RTB "Bor", "Gelezar Smederevo", in other factories, plants, that they don't think they use pre-accession periods, period – if we join the EU, that these goods produced on Serbian territory can be placed on one bigger market, would they be interesting to them just because of our small market? I don't think so, Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister, you're the finance minister. Serbia has never set aside incentives for agriculture as many years ago. Let me remind you, Mr. Mali, from 2011, the 2012 budget, as proposed, was 19 billion for agriculture, the incentives in agriculture. The course was between 117 and 118 dinars when changes occurred, when the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed. So it was a course like today. It is amazing that in Serbia, probably because of foreign investment and sales and the EU, the course remained the same without the foreign reserves falling. Here, today is the course between 117 and 118 dinars. So it's identical. But instead of those 19 billion, Mr. Minister, how much we've set aside for incentives in agriculture, we've now crossed 40 billion. Last year was nearly 45 billion. In total for the last three years, tell me if I'm wrong, we've singled out 1.15 billion euros for incentives in agriculture and processing. I admit, we tried to develop more intensive agricultural production, to push the money into fruit growing because of exports, say, fruit in Russia, because of the export of raspberries to the EU, that we tried to raise livestock production so that we no longer export our plant products, wheat, corn, etc., as a reproduction for other animals, so from there we import meat of often suspicious quality we have imported, we have already decided to raise our livestock products, and, above all, to preserve the number of cattle we have found, because during these yellow cockroaches, 200 thousand cows have disappeared. We often have the custom of Mr. Atlagic and I saying that they carried out the right cowicide in livestock production during their rule. So we invest maximum in our livestock industry to raise farms that work with 50% and raise the slaughterhouse capacity from 30%, 40% to at least 70% to 80%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71796	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71797	Here, I might not even mention it, but I really went along and across the Cave last summer and I saw a herd of sheep, I mean, and we signed a contract with Turkey, that's right, for 8,000 tonnes a year for the export of beef and sheep meat, and we only exported 400 and you said, it's hard to recover it. But why when it's been so long? As MPs, we have made a proposal to amend and supplement the law. Now she would tell us Katarina Rakic, you are not 126, so she cannot, that even bigger subsidies are given on the throat of cattle, that even more money is given, because there is money in the budget for the subsidy of production and fruit and vegetables and plants. We're supposed to be state by now to have an organic production law. We didn't get it. We should have looked at it, and you should have done it, because it's your resource, Mr. Minister, or our country, how much has been parked and unprocessed thousands of hectares in Serbia? What is the value that can be achieved with certain fruit material, whether it's vegetables, whether it's fruits, whether it's something else, and by doing so you're raising the total value, and by doing so you're also getting a larger gross social product. The fact that they started producing certain kinds of fruit is true, but they need a lot, and that's just more accurate. One of Russia's largest exporters, back in 15 years, was accidentally the head of the SRS municipal board in Topoli. Not that the demand for Serbian apples is great, it is huge, but incentives are small and of course those who deal with fraud. Who let them do that? Rasim Ljajic. So, who's head of this ministry? Who didn't stop that kind of thing from happening? Then don't replace thesis. And one more thing, when it comes to domestic economy and that they can take subsidies, but they don't. Well, you know, when they see that you provide the entire infrastructure, then from a subsidy to every job for these EU factories and the safe placement of their products, of course they will remain demoralized, because they cannot do it alone without the help of the state. Believe me, no. We had a Foreign Affairs Committee when we sent Miroslav Lazanski, we talked about it on the big Russian market, many companies from Serbia can't come out because they don't have the help of the state. The Serbian Chamber of Commerce with the unfortunate Chad, the people who have to do it, come on, that's really funny. There are factories in Serbia that are still looking for their buyer with important resources such as water factories, and they cannot be sold, as well as some other agricultural combinations, because the state does not take part in all this, but you accept from "Leonia" through the order of all these and then of course there is no room for domestic economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71798	Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Minister, the contract with Turkey has been signed not at eight thousand tons, Mr. Orlic, you certainly understand, it has been signed at 5,000 tons and we have fulfilled that. It's signed on the second ten thousand tons, whose realisation we expect, but in order to create one cow in livestock, you have to buy breeding material and wait more than two years for the calf to grow up to be a cow, to get kidnapped, and then drown in June afterwards. So it's a period that lasts a few years. In order to get to that, we even adjusted the regulations to make importing calves and importing repromary materials as easy as possible. I can't remember that during the yellow, someone supported fruit growing like this government. For an orchard, the modern incentives the government pays often reach 15,000 euros. I'll explain how. Unlike yellow cockroaches, we first support plantings, i.e. fruit material and plantings. After that, the gulf systems, fences and wires, then the anti-building network. In one orchard you raise in three years, you can compete on different grounds three times. First, plant if you don't have enough money, plant it and then give the state back to you, then drill the well, put the bay system back on and give you 50% back to the state. Then you add some money again and buy an anti-building network, it gives you the state back 50% to 65% depending on whether these are areas with difficult working conditions, then it pays 65%. If you're a young farmer, then you get between 70% and 75% and you get it based on the fabric. Never have these conditions, I do agriculture, existed in the previous period, since the first democratic elections in 1990, or before. Never this much incentive was meant to raise orchards. I have to warn our farmers who are in the apple production to follow Russia closely, because in Russia, on areas that are quite large, the plantings of the last few years, the apples that will come to be born. At that point, the threat of losing part of the market is that because pears, especially fairies, give the same income per unit of surface is that they are a little harder to maintain, to try those who are just planting orchards now, to try to move on to another kind of fruit so as not to come into a position where we came from raspberries, to raise double the plantations, and that the market remains the same and that we made ourselves a competition, or that we made Chile and Poland in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71800	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71801	If what the distinguished Mrs. Jovanovic was right, then our exports would have dropped. But our exports are growing, both in EU countries and in Russia. I'll read you something that comes from the ranks of those who are absolutely unsettled, not to use some more difficult word, economic policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On 9 January 2020, the NIN published an article in which the author, otherwise a professor of economic college, said, "Serbia achieved macroeconomic stabilisation in previous years, primarily due to relatively successful fiscal consolidation, which led to the elimination of the fiscal deficit, which directly affected a moderate reduction in public debt levels from 70% of GDP in 2015 to around 53% of GDP in late 2019. Indirectly, fiscal consolidation has also affected the reduction of inflation, the improvement of the external trade balance, and the reduction of the country's risk, the drop in interest rates and the inflow of foreign investment. "As for investments in Serbian farmers, Mr. Risticevic seems to be better directed to do so and to correct me if I am wrong. Those who every day, Mrs Jovanovic, here in the hall hold conferences as they are threatened, as human rights are threatened, as some terrible dictatorial regimes rule in Serbia, they have received subsidies from the same government, ranging from several tens to several hundred thousand euros. Here, first of all, I think of Mr Miroslav Aleksic, who received subsidies and for the purchase of a new tractor and other agricultural machinery, for the orchard, for the purchase of anti-building networks and Mr. Radoslav Milojic, in a people known as Kena, who, Rističevic, how much, for four acres of blueberry, received subsidies of 150 000 euros. But he's no good in the country. He's not doing well with the state. A man plants four acres of blueberry, the state gives him 150 thousand euros in the name of an incentive and says – well, you see this Vukic, he's some terrible dictator, he discriminates even on a political basis. In their time, you know very well, who could have gotten the subsidies? First, the subsidies were much lower. Second, the subsidies gave themselves. They've been showing fictionally that they have some pigs, some cattle, some strawberries, some apples, some pears. It was not in practice, but subsidies were regularly paid and, of course, they only did so to their party colleagues. Today, the state of Serbia has absolutely the same attitude towards all both domestic and foreign investors. And, as I said on the case of these two, perhaps the loudest fighters against the terrible dictatorial regime of Alexander Vukic, so they got in the name of the subsidies so much money that Marijan Risticevic and all of us together can only dream. So much for the rule of dictatorship in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71802	Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 of Article 87(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Greetings to Minister Sinisha Malloy and his team. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71804	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, our President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS Serbia are first in line. Serbia's citizens' well-being is also top priority. This is why we will support all proposed agreements in the voting day, because they lead to further economic progress by our country, and thus to increase the standard of living of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. At the time of the government of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vucic in the Republic of Serbia, more than 300km of highways were built, bridges were built, railways were reconstructed, and the rapid Belgrade-Budapest railway was built, airports opened, factories opened, employed, and what might be as important as opening roads in Serbia that would connect all of our citizens, regardless of what part of the country they live in, as well as our citizens with other regions, it is very important that Aleksandar Vukic opens the paths of co-operation of the Republic of Serbia in Europe and the whole world. It opens the roads of Serbia's co-operation and Serbia is no longer a country that is being humiliated, no longer a country that no one will listen to. Serbia today, thanks to our President Alexander Vukic's policy, is a country that is respected, a country whose voice is heard, a country that is respected. Perhaps the best of the politics of Alexander Vukic was said by the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church, Mr. Iriney, when he handed the greatest church medal to the Order of St. Save the first degree to our president, and for the sake of marking 800 years of SPC self-cepality, when he said among other things that Alexander Vukic had done many works for the present and future generations. I would like to refer to the project that concerns, namely the proposal for an agreement relating to the improvement of innovation-related projects and to the growth of entrepreneurship in Serbia. Why? Because today it is true that Serbia is the 44th country of 80 in the world when measuring the parameters of political stability, economic stability and military power. Serbia has progressed eight places. It is true that Serbia has for the last four years, when the government is doing its job in a responsible manner, for the first time in history, had a surplus in the four-year budget in a row. What does that mean for ordinary citizens? That means their salaries and their pensions will be higher. That means more roads will be built. That means more schools will be open. That means more hospitals will be open. The truth is, when the SNS came to power, unemployment was two digits. The truth is, unemployment is 9.5% today. What does that mean? This means that Aleksandar Vukic opened factories in Serbia and that in Serbia both works in Belgrade and elsewhere along Serbia alike. It is true that the National Bank of Serbia has the largest foreign reserve of gold. It is true that Serbia is making the best progress in countries in the region in economic progress and economic growth. In particular, as regards this project, which supports entrepreneurship and innovation, the Agreement, in fact, which involves innovation in entrepreneurship, I must stress that it is here and that the important role of the Science Fund and through projects to combine scientific research and knowledge from the field of scientific research with the economy of 8,000 inventors and scientists will be included in these economic activities. Who started with the process of linking scientific research and economy to improve economic growth? It's our president, Alexander Vukitch. Who advocated and introduced whose initiative was instituted by a dual education system? Right on the initiative of our President Alexander Vukic. Why is dual education important? Because children, or students, will be able to measure their diploma with knowledge and will be able to come to work much faster and simpler, because they will earlier be able to create their own families. This agreement is very important in connecting our scientific community with the Serb scientific community in the diaspora. What does that mean? This means that our scientific researchers will have the opportunity to gain knowledge and experience both in the world and in Europe, but this will also mean that our researchers who went to the world earlier will return to their country and contribute to the further progress of the Republic of Serbia with their knowledge. Of course, I must point out that Serbia has done a lot when it comes to connecting scientific research and entrepreneurship, by establishing scientific infrastructure, which is science and technology parks. Four were founded and built in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Cačka. It is a way to connect the economy, to connect scientific knowledge. In its national plan, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, "Serbia 2025", defines 600m euros for education for 30,000 digital classrooms, but also 90m euros for artificial intelligence to make our children better and to make Serbia step better and more successful in its future every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71805	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. The word is Mr. Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have finally welcomed from the SRS that we can commend something that is an integral part of the agenda, and it refers to the Agreement on Co-operation with the Eurasian Union. It is finally a real move decided by the Serbian government, although little remains to be traced by the prime minister's performance, or by the Prime Minister, when he said when the agreement was signed in an explanation, he may have slipped to say - that is, everyone is going to the EU, and we are going to the Euro-Asian Union, as if the Euro-Asian Union is something that is, on condition, worse for Serbia. According to us Serbian radicals, it is much, much better than the EU. The European Union is a failure for Serbia when it comes to economic relations. We immediately see that certain quotas have been agreed. They mainly refer to agriculture as a sign to the government, especially to the ministry of resistance, to start a little differently to think about the development of agriculture, especially when it comes to the development of livestock. We know there are problems with the delivery, with the amount to be delivered with already signed contracts for China and Turkey. It should be kept in mind that those who are medium or small farmers, not only large, participate in agriculture. All that has been done so far is primarily potentiated by those who are large and large to give them greater subsidies and all. So we need to develop these medium and small farmers as well. We are not angry, in the afternoon session there were measures of patriotism when it comes to the Russian Federation, when it comes to the Eurasian Union. We didn't even look back on the fact that someone measured which car someone was driving, so it's politically oriented. We Serbian radicals, as is known, are open to every story, every discussion. We asked a couple, and some of them from the SNS who are on several boards and have more money and have not shown themselves to help me. The call's still open. If you want to help, we will not be angry, but to measure patriotism in this way is not appropriate, especially when it comes to this kind of agreement with the Eurasian Union. What's also good is that a project that brings good to the municipality of Novi Belgrade in the long term is finally starting to be implemented, which is connecting with Obrenovac. I wish there were other projects, such as this, when it comes to providing energy, especially those that are needed primarily for heating, to warm up that are on as large a territory of Belgrade as possible. That would be good and that, we see, is 162 million. It's been signed with our traditionally already friends, and these are the Chinese, their banks. What leaves a bit of a trail of doubt is why isn't domestic surgery more involved this time? You know, here in the contract it's all very specific. He's gonna be an operative contractor from China. Even in the contract, it is specified that at least 15% of the repromation and the material needed for this investment should be from China. We assume that with Chinese people who are always in favour of Serbia, we can always reach an agreement that the larger the share has our domestic operation, and in this way we can simplify this situation, and that means that we got a loan from the Chinese bank, the Chinese labourer will collect these works, and we are left with only paying back the debts. It's a good project. It's a great project. It should be done with all the thermal power plants no matter how expensive investment is at first sight, and that's something that partially solves and this problem about the pollution of the human environment, especially as they stress that Serbia is, imagine, in which industry is locally doing, not to talk about the dirty technology that is not there, but they put us at the top of the polluted list. You can't believe how many people started blindly believing these misinformations. Let's not spread the story. This is very, very good. As for this contract on the promotion of science and discovery, it is an accelerant, in order to say Serbian, it sounds like it is an acceleration of science and invention, there is one provision that is not clear to us at first sight, ministers, and that is that the Development Bank will finance all these projects in science and innovation, but all these projects go to the insight, that is, the draft and the project go to the bank, or advice that will form a bank, and the Bank will finance only projects for those that it thinks are correct and that they are good. You know, in the field of science and innovation it's a little undefined, until the end undefined what it means when the bank estimates whether the projects are good or not. This means that what, we always see the other side as an opposition, what if one of the innovation projects and the science development project brings something to Serbia and how significant, and the bank, especially this one for development, is not so much in the mood and well-being that they see something that would be good in the long term not only for Serbia but for any country where they give financial resources, is not in the interest of any bank that the states are rapidly isolated. They support the country's development, leaving the crisis, but not exactly how it's presented in public. They always want states to depend on their capital. Then what would be the purpose of such banks? So that part alone, there's an open question left, where the bank can finally bring its own opinion, and there's that part where they always point out first, and that's ecology. There's something that might appear picturesquely, and it's like sending a systematic examination of people who are for certain special functions or duties and then the last one, believe it or not, is the last psychiatrist. And when he wants to eliminate someone, he says he didn't go to a shrink. Now you prove it. It's such an ecology, something like that. When it comes to the approval of projects, ecology is relative. You don't know anything about environmental science. Whether that's right or not, that's going to be an estimate of the one that's funding. Everyone's advocating for protection, for improving the environment, but you can see what the moves are and what reality is. The reality is that when it comes to capital, when it comes to interest, they don't care about environmentalism. They put their interests first. And as my colleague Martinovic said, is this not the issue of warming the country, or the atmosphere, of how much diesel fuel is spent in Serbia? It's just this minister who's currently in charge of ecology, he's having these outbursts, where he shows up in public and says -- Serbia is warmer, the surface of Serbia, than the rest of the globe. It's out of your mind. Or, the air is polluted in Serbia because city traffic is working. That's out of your mind. Ecology is a grateful topic, especially the finance minister, especially when they want to place their capital. They just declare you very, very dangerous, and then capital for promotion, for the purchase of filters, etc. However, we Serbian radicals will not vote for this because there are many shortcomings, and especially when it comes to this Annex 6 CEFTA agreement, which I assume is more to be discussed by my colleague Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71807	Thank you, colleague Mircic. We're moving on in a row. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have several agreements on the agenda that have exactly contributed to what the SNS and its president have been saying for years. Here, I'd like to touch this discussion about the construction of a heat pipeline financed by the Chinese bank, which just confirms that we in the world really have friends, but also that when it comes to economic interest, we have to accept the fact and view them as partners. And that's what we seem to be, where we don't understand one part of the opposition. You know, they give you credit that's more favourable than you can get on the market. This loan is not completely free, as it looks at first sight, but rather requires that certain construction effects, labour, etc. be employed. They provide, on the one hand, a job for their businesses, and on the other hand, they give us cheaper money than we can find ourselves on the market. On the third hand, we have achieved some public works that affect improving the quality of life in the Republic of Serbia. But, as I said, you must see it on the partner side, as the president of the parliamentary group has just said, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic. For me, this hysteria about it, both around the European Union and the Eurasian Union and what Serbia is doing and why we are not relying on only one side, let's really look at the economic side that it looks like. We say that, and indeed, China and Russia are very big friends, we promote co-operation in all areas. On the other hand, we have partners in Europe, we even have some friendly countries in the EU, but looking at a global EU project that has failed and that does not think Serbia well, etc., etc. Let us, as a territorialally small country and a numerically small country, by the number of citizens, especially those who are working, look at the very ones we call friends and look at these other sides, the ones that we call partners. As far as I know, both Russia and China are struggling to enter the EU market. It's a fact and no one can deny it. Also, serious EU countries, the most economically developed ones, are also struggling to enter the market, both Russia and China. I am now asking one question - and are we so much smarter than the EU and Russia and China, so we say - no, we will only cooperate with those countries that are friendly to us? I don't think anyone who has one such thesis is really normal. With one such policy, all those projects that friendly countries have here in the Republic of Serbia, I am primarily thinking about Russia and China, the question is whether these projects would be here in Serbia if we didn't have a negotiation process with the EU and in this process these investors coming from Russia and China have certain advantages in placing their goods on the EU market. Here, I'd like someone to tell me if I'm wrong. If someone thought Hestel was going to come to Smederevo, make those steel cans and bring them back to China, I also don't think he's normal. They will be placed on the EU market. If Linglong is going to come to Serbia to produce car tyres and bring them back to China, that is unlikely, almost impossible. No, they'll be placed on the EU market. Now let's look at a little bit of what those countries that are friendly to us are doing to secure profits for their businesses, to improve the living standards of their citizens and to look at, and look up to them. For example, the biggest manufacturer in the automotive industry is "Folksvagen". The largest investment "Folksvagena" was in 2017 or 2018 in the Russian Federation. They built the largest internal combustion engine factory. That was good for the Russians, and when a company like Bosch or someone else comes to the Serbs, that's not good. They're our enemies. They're using us. They abuse us. Well, isn't it because the EU that imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation violates its sanctions because it might love the Russian Federation? No, it's about profit, only profit. And when you look on the economic side, you don't have any friends. You can make it easier for some to reach an agreement, you can get better terms in some agreement, but you can get free profits, and someone can finance some money where they don't see their interest, forget it. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. Certainly, this Agreement with the Eurasian Union is one step forward in developing economic relations with the countries belonging to the Eurasian Union, and certainly it is one relief for Serbia's economy to place some of its products. What's most important is that our economy becomes even more competitive at the moment when all the administrative, customs and all the other barriers we have with countries that are more developed than us fall, that our economy is ready to be competitive and to survive. And in that, well, the countries of the Eurasian Union are helping us. One of the things that also facilitates Serbia's position and improves the competitiveness of its economy is the famous "mini Schengen", which many attack and challenge, raise issues and transfer all this to the sphere of politics and look at things very closely and suggest moves that I don't know if they would bring the best to Serbs who don't live under the rule of the Republic of Serbia. You know, there were a lot of questions asked around these cabs 100% and what's going on here, etc. Now I have to ask one other question – that we were more aggressive in responding to policies implemented by the temporary Kosovo institutions, so-called. The Kosovo government, would that improve the situation of Serbs living in the territory of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija? I don't think their position would be much more difficult. It was this wise policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic that we managed to preserve these people in Kosovo and Metohija and who want to live in the Republic of Serbia. This story about “mini Schengen” is also to make it clear that some who want to live in conflict and in enmity that they will not bring economic prosperity to their people and that at a certain point someone will also enquire them from those people – what are you doing and what are you fighting at? Because Serbia is progressing, all the countries around us are progressing, they are developing economically, and someone is insisting on conflicts, and even, I can see, and now he's throwing. I guess these are the same extremists as you have down in Pristina and Kosovo and Metohija. They say they're even worse. All right, that's their right, make it worse, that's why they're worse at the SNS election. Well, what am I supposed to do now? Because, it seems to me, they don't realize that in the first place whoever exercises power in the Republic of Serbia has a responsibility to its citizens. You know what, we can pretend like nothing is happening and we can do nothing, we can have some ideology, we can reject co-operation because first we want to push things out by the vision that we want, and then we come up with a serious problem -- that we're going to bring down the economic system of the Republic of Serbia, because it's not self-sufficient and self-sustaining. That's what we felt when they were economic sanctions in the 1990s. As a result, we will have an outflow of our population from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is the way into the disappearance of both the Serbian people and the Serbian state. Those who earn that they are even worse, make sure that they do not do favors in the first place to their people. "Mini Schengen" is a good project that will also improve the competitiveness of our economy, reduce costs in economic co-operation between the countries that implement it and thus make Serbia even more competitive in the world market in the true sense of the word. If this is not a good project and we are going to persist in some conflicts, then ask the question - how much do we lose if we enter these conflicts and allow ourselves to enter these conflicts? I know that many countries that are not friendly to us are not responsible for Serbia being an economic, political and regional force in any other way, which is becoming. That's why we have to run a wise policy. We are a factor of stability as long as we try to show some as we are not, because if we weren't a factor of stability we would have again "Blash" and "Storm" and "Marcale" in Kosovo and Metohija, etc. Only cowards will not say that, because Serbia is not responsible for them being strong, because they are not in power, so Serbia cannot be strong. Is that a problem? It's not for me, but it's obvious to some. That's why we have some discussions here - we'll work with these, we won't deal with these, because they don't think us well. I ask the question – who thinks well to our people, if you set such conditions? Surely you don't think well, Serbia would have disappeared as a people in 10 to 15 years to implement such a single programme. We wouldn't even be under that plum that's mentioned. So we need to lead a wise policy. The policy was drawn by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. That policy will be measured by Serbian citizens in just a few months, and I would love to hear your excuses when you get results from polling stations, how you will justify such a defeat. Is it the citizens' fault, or is it your fault for the wrong policy?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71809	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Mr. Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71810	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nisa, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I was elected from the SNS list. So far, I've always spoken and supported laws that concern all of us. Now here we need to support agreements concerning the development of our agriculture, the development of our economy, and to me it's one of the most important things. Otherwise, a colleague who spoke before me, Mr. Veroljub Arsic, is a man with knowledge, a lot of economic sciences, knows what is said, the economy, but I talked to him earlier, where his father was one of the exceptional experts, as far as agriculture is concerned. We all know what the period of development of our agriculture means, that through an agreement with the Eurasian Economic Union, we can place our products, ensure production and in our small environments, because a really great chance is the development of agriculture, but here when we speak it is always said that agriculture... (incomprehensible) which is, we have a chance, we have to support the development of small holdings, small municipalities, because as I was saying, nature has given us everything, we have to protect nature and thus we have to give greater support to small communities, small municipalities, small agricultural land. This is one way that tomorrow these people can live from their work, to provide enough quality products for the countries of the Russian Federation, for the countries of Belarus and other countries where quality production is needed, or quality products. One of the things I would now be talking about is support for the development of energy, where now the Chinese bank, the New Belgrade-Obrenovac pipeline project, is being financed, I would expect and expect that next year we will have the opportunity to do and gasse Southeast Serbia. I am sure of one thing, that the Serbian state headed by our president, Mr. Vukic, has an even greater chance, an even greater stability in the coming period, and this will also prove in these parliamentary, province and local elections. I will support the proposal for these laws, these agreements, because I am sure that this way we will provide a better future, provide more resources for our agricultural producers to provide their goods, and I am sure that this way we will leave our people to live there in Svrlig, the White Palanca, Gajina Han, that they can place their quality products beyond the borders of our southeast Serbia and beyond Serbia. Once again, thank you, Minister, I will support the proposal for an agreement as President of the USS and it is very important that here in the Assembly we have people who understand agriculture, I am one of those, I was... (inaudible) in the field, I feel agriculture, I know what it takes, but it's always said – someone else's arm doesn't scratch. That is why we need to talk more, to do more about Serbia's agriculture and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71811	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Now the word has been made by Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71812	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm not in the folk costume today, because I want to show you a picture that I'm commending. His Excellency, Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Austria Nebojsa Rodic, this year, as far as I know, for the first time in the history of Serbian diplomacy of the newer period or at least in the 21st century in the Serbian folk costume, welcomed guests to mark the Day of Statehood of the Republic of Serbia in Vienna. I think it is commendable and I hope that, at least by the foreign minister, he will not get the epithet that he is a genetically modified peasant because he is wearing a Serbian folk costume. He's here with foreign delegations in the folk costume, also here with guests. It would be good if most of our diplomatic representatives, at least for Statehood Day, wore not only a folk costume, but served all the guests with Serbian national dishes and Serbian national drinks, not "Johnny Walker", "Balantines", etc. Given that I am an independent MP and have no right to ask questions under the Rules of Procedure, I would take advantage of the opportunity and the presence of the finance minister to ask him a few questions, with a request to answer. First, why is the "Combank" sold, i.e. what profit has the "Combank" made over the last three years, and what is the price offered by the Slovenian bank? The second question – why was there only one participant in the assessment of purchases during the opening of bids for sale of the PKK, three days after the opening, only the price offered has been announced? Shouldn't the opening be announced and who the bidder is and what conditions he has offered? The conditions without the offered price are really disabled. What was the reason for that? The third question – why do we keep in debt? If we have grown into an economic giant in the Balkans, I guess we can finance education from our own incomes. That's not why we have to be in charge of foreign loans. Then what is the responsibility per capita and does it grow, given that we have a constant reduction in population, by two basics, because the mortality rate is higher than the birth rate and the second, due to the marked departure of our population, especially the younger, from Serbia to abroad? I would also like to encourage the congregation's majority to hold a special debate before disbanding the Assembly – whether we can link the elections to a referendum statement on several basic issues. First, the most important question for me, nationalally, is – should we crash into meeting the European Union, deliberately using this term, with disabled Serbia, or with Serbia without the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija? Do we, in negotiations with the European Union, give up acts of territory in such a way indirectly? I don't think Serbia should and should not give in and take advantage of the opportunity for citizens to plead. Also, given that around 7,000 council members in 136 municipalities and cities in Serbia have declared themselves against imports of breeding, processing and transport of genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms, which is 80.5% of local self-government in central Serbia and Vojvodina territory, because this action has not been implemented on Kosovo and Metohija territory, for understandable reasons. I think citizens can plead and become a binding decision for future leadership, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia, which will form after these elections. These are some of the questions I would like to ask you to discuss at a special session before the disbanding of this congregation. I see no reason why someone would run from the argumented debate – for or against, or because of how to avoid the influence of the people, as it was done in the adoption of the Law on the selection of MPs and it is impossible for citizens to be both legislators and participants in the elections, if they are not members of political parties or if they do not join as a meaningful group of citizens dedicated to the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71813	Thank you, Professor. The People's MP, Milija Miletic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71814	I'll just say something to Professor Chevarlic, since I was the president of the municipality when the council voted in favour of the declaration, specifically related to-against GMOs. What can I say? We voted there precisely because it was a correct initiative, but on the other hand, the law was not passed, because the law was defined by us – a ban on genetically modified food and products. So we can talk about it every day, because we always refer to how many positive things came to us at that time to the Srlig municipality assembly, whether one, the other, the third, all the positive initiatives we accepted, but the law defined all the necessary things. Therefore, Serbia is a country where there is no and no genetically modified food and products are allowed. Therefore, we no longer need to talk about it, talk about it, because it is forbidden for us to do so. Otherwise, the initiative was, is a large number of councilors, we unanimously voted in favour of this declaration that was submitted to us there, but simply everything that is positive we put in place. We know when the law was passed, the law defined everything and that story, genetically modified, and we don't need to talk about these things at all because it's forbidden for us. I can only ask colleagues who may know the period back 10, 15, 20 years if since we've had McDonald's, if there's a product in McDonald's where it's pretty sure there's no genetically modified food, if those animals used where the food is. But it's not from today, it's back since McDonald's. Therefore, I am sure that there is no food and products from genetically modified organisms are banned. Therefore, it is certain, the law is defined, our country of Serbia is working on it and the competent ministries are controlling it. If you have any information that something is going on somewhere that is not needed, it should be reported to the competent authorities and those competent authorities should do their job. Otherwise, our law is defined and we can talk about it, but there's no need, because the law is clear with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71815	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71816	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I would briefly like to introduce you to the level of duty of the Republic of Serbia and to all that we have done as the Government of the Republic of Serbia to fully stop the negative public debt growth trajectory that was in the previous period by 2012 until 2013. So, with responsible measures and fiscal and monetary policies, we have come to the conclusion that today's public debt participation in GDP is about 48%. Let me remind you, six or seven years ago, we had a public debt participation in GDP of about 77-78%. What has been an even bigger problem is that public debt participation has been growing steadily. This is due to the irresponsible policy of the previous government, when, for no reason whatsoever, they owed expensive loans, I'll give you concrete examples as much as what, and on the other hand, the economy collapsed, they had negative growth rates, they had deficits in the budget, everything that destroyed the standard of living of Serbian citizens, which reduced and destroyed our country's perspective and our children's, and on the other hand, was poured into our pockets. You know for yourself how much Dragan Gilas's company only earned during a few years of his term as mayor. I think the number is somewhere around 619m euros. You know how many companies from Dragan Gilas only earned during a few years of his term as mayor, I think the figure is about 619m euros. So that money went to him, into his pockets. On the other hand, from Belgrade via the Republic of Serbia, you had record deficits, record budget holes, and this was just funded by expensive and non-resonal loans. Now let me give you an example, one piece of information, what's going on right now. At this point, as a consequence of financial consolidation, the stability of our public finances, you have that our country's credit rating rises from month to month, year to year. We also came to the fact that just a few days ago, and in the last ten days, we have had two very important events in our public finances, which I am sure will remain registered, which is that we have broadcast a 20-year bond in euro, a 20-year bond in euro, with a contribution of only 3%. Let me remind you, in 2013, the previous government issued a 10-year bond and made a contribution of over 7-7.3%, 7.4%. So trust in our country has returned. We can now get money, finance investments, finance highways, investment in infrastructure, health care, education, at only 3% a year, for a 20-year period. And when did this happen? And what happened two days ago? We had for the first time in the history of our financial market, our public finances, the broadcasting of twelve-year dinar bonds, and we got an interest rate of only 3.4%, 3.4% per 12 years in dinars. In 2017 we also had fiscal consolidation measures and we still suffered the consequences of the irresponsible policy of the previous government, for the one-year dinar bond we were asked for 3.48%. Now for a 12-year-old, we got 3.4%. Well, wait how it speaks of our public finances, and how does it speak of public debt management, and how does it speak of the devastating economic policy of those who now want to return to power? We are very responsible for our economic policy, I also know for the citizens of Serbia that some of this topic is not simple, but what is important, what everyone understands, so in dinars, at 12 years 3.4%, in dinars per year 2016. - In 2017, it was 3.48%. The incredible difference, our public finances are completely stable, the second year in a row we already have our GDP growth more than 4%, the fourth year in a row we have surplus in the budget, last year 12.8 billion dinars, our public debt decreases, relative to GDP, unemployment rates historically low and we fight for every new employment, for every new factory. Don't forget "Serbia 20-25" which is a key programme and a project to develop our economy and our economy in the next period, with an additional 14 billion euros and in infrastructure, and in health and education and in young people will completely change Serbia, contribute to making our growth rates even bigger, our participation in public debt will be even less, to leave our children a stable and healthy future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71817	Thank you, Mr. Minister. He has the right to a replica of Milletić, Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71818	I hope I have the right to a replica and a minister, not just Milletic. But here's Milletic, president of the USS.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71819	Well, he didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71820	Just like the president of the United Peasants' Party. Mr. Miletic, obviously you've confused something, the GMO Act, was brought in in 2009, which was only seven years earlier than we started with the GMO Declarations. Therefore, seven years after the adoption of the current law, you adopted the GMO Declaration. It doesn't seem to be the fact that the law was passed after that. There is another fact, that after that, changes and additions to the Food Safety Act have been made, in which you pushed through the definition of genetically modified food on the small door, and it says -- genetically modified food, without a reference to who, I don't know if it's reserved for politicians as special food and genetically modified food for animals, according to the law, probably about animal welfare. I ask that we pass at least a law on the well-being of people, so in this first part of the definition, that it is genetically modified food for people and food without guidance and for who and what it is, and food for animals, from genetically modified organisms. I hope that the citizens of Serbia understand absolutely that, if I am not mistaken, the concept of genetically modified food that is not normally contained in the 2009 GMO Act was introduced on 19 March 2019. I'm sorry I didn't get an answer from the finance minister, but I leave it to the citizens to grade, as the chairman says I don't have the right to replicate the minister. So why is the sale of the Commercial Bank, what is the income of the Commercial Bank in the last three years, whether the price offered is lower or greater than that of the income. I did not get an answer why during the sale of the PKK, the price offered by the bidder and so on, as well as how much debt per capita is, given the negative demographic trend in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71821	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71822	I'm advocating a breach of members of 106th and 107th. Article 106 is that you can only talk about the point on the agenda and the 107th dignity of the Assembly. This is where the minister provided some information that they deserve to comment on. We agree that Serbia's radicals have introduced one financial discipline compared to the earlier period is much better and much more effective. We agree that showing Serbia's overall debt to GDP is a percentage smaller, but the debt, Mr. Sinisa Mali, is 24 billion euros long. It's been before and now it's 24 billion. That's the point. Secondly, the advantage of these loans is only in the grace period. There was an increase in the grace period compared to earlier loans that were with a smaller grace period. As for the bond, well, you can't exactly say that's commendable. It is progress compared to an earlier period, but this dictates the terms of the securities market of value. That's what people who do business or do banking, they know it. The fact that bonds were being issued at a rate of three percent, it was five percent earlier, but earlier it was interest and otherwise on the market. So we can't exactly shut up about what you said. Exactly, tax collection, financial discipline is much better than it was before and secondly, Mr. Minister, look at the chronologically. The coming of this coalition to power, in one form or another, has increased the loan's debt by nine billion. When Mirko Cvetkovic was not at all brilliant or successful, the total debt was 15 billion, now it is 24. Twenty-four, minus 15, that's nine.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71823	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Milorad Mircic: I want the minister to plead. All right. Thank you. First Milletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71824	We're talking about the declaration one more time. It was not signed in 2016, it was signed in 2017. That's one thing. The other thing, as far as the law is concerned, it's true that we can't use genetically modified food. But on the other hand, I'd like to ask you, because you've been teaching students for many years, I've talked to these people who are now mature people. You were an extremely good lecturer, they liked to listen to your lectures, you have great knowledge, you have great experience. Just answer me if it's under McDonald's products that are produced there, that are sold there, that are consumed by our people, is there anything in these products GMOs? Where does that food come from? Is it being driven from some surrounding countries? You know that for sure. And no one's ever talked about it before. But at the very least one thing is certain, our country protects our people, we have safe food, so we don't need to say at all that we're scaring our people to consume and use genetically modified food. Once again, I'm 100% certain of it because I trust our institutions and trust everything I'm saying here. The one thing we talked about earlier is this folk costume, we always talk about it, I'm an MP before, since I was an MP in office in 2014. - 2016, I also came in the folk costume, representing my folk costume, my customs. I do it everywhere, it's a nice thing, and we always have to work on it. So, you always say we have to respect our tradition, but it's always said that a suit doesn't make a man. So one thing is, and it should be, to be human, to respect one another, to respect knowledge and experience, but on the other hand, we always have to tell the truth, and we don't need to scare our people because our people must be eating quality and healthy food.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71825	Thank you. I am asking the MPs and, in part, my colleague Mircic is right to point out that I hurt the Rules of Procedure by somehow allowing it to go very far away from the topic we are discussing today. So, I ask the Members of Parliament to return to this topic and what is the reason why Minister Sinisha Mali and his team are here. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71826	Dear MPs, just to briefly refer to a few data relating to public debt, for some of the MPs just to inform that there is no grace period when public debt is concerned, so you have an absolute and relative amount of public debt. What is more important is that the absolute amount of debt is never seen, but the relative basis of GDP. I'll tell you something about it absolutely. I've already explained it here in front of the honourable MPs. Therefore, since 2008, participation has increased, i.e. the total amount of public debt of the Republic of Serbia. A completely irresponsible wrong policy, the Republic of Serbia is in debt, and on the other hand the largest part of that money, if not all, goes into public spending, does not go into investment. When you add up and I'm very precise, when you add up all the deficits, all the minuses that the previous government made from 2008 to 2012, and in 2013, it's somewhere, if it's not wrong, from the head, about 750 billion dinars. The course then, when you consider it, is about seven billion euros. That's the difference, why he grew public debt from 15 to 22, 23. Because someone responsible had to cover the hole that this last one left behind. So, what's going on? You're absolutely right about that. It happens that in the last five or six years you have a stable and absolute amount of public debt, although compared to GDP, it decreases despite the fact that you have 350km of new highways, despite the fact that you have miles and miles of new and reconstructed railway lines, new clinical centres, new schools, new kindergartens. Now, it's called responsible economic policy, when what you invest, invest in the right things, and from these things, investment, GDP increases. You have higher salaries, higher pensions, not that increased public debt and expensive loans, so this is one aspect of it. They had expensive loans that they put into public spending, and we have cheap loans that we carry and return to their old loans and on the other hand, we invest in investments that raise the standard of living of Serbian citizens and raise our economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71827	Thank you, Minister. Milorad Mircic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71828	You're right, Mr. Minister, it was only here that it was about the grace period, when it came to the credit line, the credit line. But look, you just said the point. You had to cover all the deficits, when it comes to public debt, and I have no doubt that the deficits were achieved in this way. Minister, you must add the export deficit to these 24 billion imports. That's five billion, or six. It's 31 billion, and it's a debt if you're looking at it so absolutely. As far as GDP is concerned, it's something relative to you. So here's how relatively, one set of government in America was showing in GDP catering services, even showing it, going into detail, let's say how much coffee was served in a restaurant, so when they were exposed, it's long gone. It's relative, but we're talking absolute amounts. So it's 24 billion. If you're looking at the methodology of how much the deficit used to be, then you have to apply the same methodology here. The difference between exports and imports in favour of imports is six billion. It's the same debt, it's Serbia's got to. As for these credits around the corridor, these loans have just been raised by those who, before you, passed power, have passed by and raised those loans for Corridor 10. Look at that, there's a chronology that clearly indicates when someone was taking loans and how much they owed. The mistake is that they were raising loans, and whether they were expensive, whether they were large interest rates, hardly that Serbia could have affected at that time as it is now at the rate of interest. But look, there are a lot of similarities in economic policymaking. A little spirit is felt by Mladjan Dinkic in the earlier and present period.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71829	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71830	Honorable MPs only briefly. It's very important for me to answer this. Three things I want to mention. Absolutely as a state, you have the opportunity to influence interest rates, because the interest rate reflects the country's risk of investment. If you have a responsible policy, stable public finances, you reduce the country's risk of investment, therefore, you have lower interest, and if you have lower interest, it's good for the state, it's good for businesses. Easier companies and companies are determined and decided to invest, invest, create new jobs, and it is called a stable economic policy, which is related to economic growth. There's two things I want to tell you, and I wouldn't give you much more detail. Please, make the difference between the fiscal deficit, the deficit in the budget, I was talking about it. You're talking about the trade deficit. So you have two types of deficit. Third thing I want to mention, please one more time. You have a trading deficit that is completely covered by the difference, i.e. by the inflows from foreign direct investments. Only the difference, i.e. the net relationship between the current account and the capital account, affects the public debt or the foreign reserve situation, and not only add the current account deficit, the trading deficit, and ignore the inflow that you have from foreign investments. I know I've now entered something that no one understands almost, but I'm asking you as MPs to add at least those few equations right, so we all know how serious economic policy works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71831	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on now. (Mlorad Mircic: If I could just take a minute, I don't want to go into debate.) I also gave you an opportunity when you were injured, pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, where you were in fact replicating and giving the Clagworth Minister a reply. I see you disagree, your theories are quite different. Please, Mr. Mircic, let's move on. Thank you for understanding, as always. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. (Miladin Ševarlic: According to the Rules of Procedure, I am directly mentioned. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71832	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, although indeed all the agreements we are discussing today are of paramount importance, I will concentrate in my discussion on the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eurasian Economic Union, because I believe that it, not only on the economic consequences but also on the political consequences, is extremely important to the Republic of Serbia. He is, and I want to point out this opportunity, because somehow in today's discussions, it is right to point out his economic consequences and everything he has produced, the previous Free Trade Agreement with Russia, to point to several important political factors that have influenced him to be on the agenda at all today. Let's not underestimate this, I want to underline both the courage and determination to make several important decisions that the Republic of Serbia has shown to protect its national interests, which were necessary for us today to debate this agreement at all. This agreement with the Eurasian Union today in the Serbian Parliament would not have been if Serbia had imposed sanctions on Russia. Serbia, as the only country under the tremendous pressure it was under in 2014, has decided by managing its and state economic interests not to impose those sanctions. That we had another power then, i.e. The government that was until 2012, we wouldn't be discussing this today. That's what I want to say with responsibility here. Would they impose sanctions on Russia? We'd be sure to bring it in. And we wouldn't have this agreement on the agenda today. An agreement with the Russian Federation would also be broken, and today the agreement would not be confirmed and united with some other agreements. It is important to point out this political aspect of going to the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia to protect their economic interests, to diversify their trade policy, has contributed that today we have a chance in the future to take advantage of this agreement to a much greater extent than it was in the previous period. Why am I speaking to a much greater extent than it was in the previous period? We have missed a great opportunity to talk about an agreement with the Russian Federation in the period since it was signed, because this agreement is essentially about retaining the Free Trade Agreement and the advantages it has with the Russian Federation, which is 90% of this agreement. In the period from 2000 to 2012, when Russia was not a member of the World Trade Organisation, Serbia missed the opportunity because of a one-sided policy, I have to tell you this, politics that Europe has no alternative, in no way has taken advantage of the opportunity to position and develop primarily on the Russian market, and now it has even greater opportunities to develop on the Euro-Asian market. After Russia entered the World Trade Organisation in 2012, they were reduced to other countries in customs rates, plus the introduction of sanctions against the Russian Federation, when Russia set out to develop itself in a large number of its economic domains, we missed certain opportunities. I mean, we could've done more in the past, but I'm sure in the next period we can do a lot more. This primarily refers to two aspects that are important for the development of the Serbian economy. One is a new attraction and to a greater extent foreign investment. The second is the development of our production and our industry. When it comes to attracting investment, it is my suggestion based on some of the contacts I have had with many friends, especially in Western Europe, which are really interested in Serbia's position and the possibility of Serbia being some kind of bridge towards the Eurasian Economic Union when it comes to exports of all kinds of products. I've been participating in the Euro-Asian Economic Forum held in Verona for several years. Last year, it was held just the day Serbia signed the agreement. In conversations with many friends and colleagues, I got the impression that there is a lot of information that exists when it comes to businesses in Europe. I think we should do much more to promote this exceptional opportunity that exists and that Serbia can take advantage of, attract investment and that these foreign companies that are registered here with 51% production, as the country of origin of the Republic of Serbia, export to the Euro-Asian market. On the other hand, it is very important and it is a great advantage achieved by this agreement, today it has been said little about it, is that Serbia has been able to act in this negotiation to break the rules of direct purchase. For the first time now, Serbia and our businessmen will be able to make an exporting Euro-Asian economic market through intermediaries, and it will make it much easier, and it will save a lot of financial resources and that is something we must congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this success. I want to highlight a few more important issues that are open here when it comes to politics and co-operation with Russia. Absolutely in the most difficult and most important moments, both recent and older Serbian history, this friendship with the Russian Federation was confirmed and when it was crucial to support each other, we supported each other, but it is important to point out that this friendship was developing exclusively and largely on the basis of the greatest compatibility of the interests that existed between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. My esteemed colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, spoke of these differences between better or worse relations with some other countries about different degrees. I would only upgrade to what counterpart Martinovic said on a greater coincidence of interest, because Serbia, primarily as an independent and sovereign state, must take account, primarily of its national interests. That is why this agreement is in the deep interest of the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and its producers. And if we organize ourselves better in the next period, encourage our production, surely this share that is now making, of the 7%, will certainly be much greater, surely this large market that we have only talked about to the most, and we have not been able to take advantage of the potential is a great opportunity for our economy and for our farmers. We must take advantage of the excellent political relations we have, not only with the Russian Federation, but also with all the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union, but that is not enough unless we realize that it is competitive that competition on such a large market today is incomparably higher than it was in some previous period which we unfortunately missed. They are being positioned, too, by many companies that are trying in different ways to avoid sanctions that exist now. The Russian state is investing and giving large subsidies to keep them on its market. We must, as Government, and I am confident that we will succeed, now to a greater extent support the development of our companies on the Euro-Asian economic market. This was only possible when we started to lead a responsible, serious, state-of-the-art, national policy that protects Serbian interests, regardless of the pressures that were in 2014, to impose sanctions on Russia and last year to give up on this agreement, we endured these pressures, because it was in the first place the interests of Serbia, its citizens and its economy. Only in this way will we help our economy to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia to be even more developed, even more successful, and this is at this moment the sole merit of the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71833	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71834	Thank you. I'm really sorry you didn't let me rephrase my colleague Elijah for bringing out absolute inaccuracy. Here, the Law on genetically modified organisms was adopted and published in Official Messenger No 41/2009. years...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71835	I'm sorry. You're suggesting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Miladin Ševarlic: Yes. ) Please, I am trying to stick to and respect all the Rules of Procedure in this Chamber, and the MP and we as chairman, and the minister who has the right to speak here today to participate in the work of our session, but I cannot allow you to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I have warned you and my colleague Miletic, you have gone far from the subject. I can't let the session go that way. You are now pointing to my violation of the Rules of Procedure and replicating Milija Miletic again. I don't mind. I'll drop the debate, talk about whatever you want, but I don't think it leads to anything. So we have something important for citizens, agreements. Here, Mr. Palalic spoke eight minutes ago, specifically, concisely about the agreements, and we are now back on the theme of GMOs. It really doesn't make sense! Here, finish up, I don't mind. Use your two minutes. I absolutely won't deny you, not you, not anyone, but I don't think it makes any sense, and it's not right for me, as chairman, for the other colleagues, or for the citizens. Go ahead, go ahead. (The People's MP, Miladin Ševarlic, left the National Assembly Hall.) Thank you, Professor, for your understanding. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71836	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a lot of good is said about these five agreements during today's discussion and I see that we all agreed in principle, both the position and the opposition, that this is something good. Yes, it's really good, starting with the Obrenovac thermal line – Novi Belgrade, to the Euroazijksa Union and I think it's a small fragment, or part of that project, not to say the programme "Serbia 2025". A lot of people talked about loans today. Well, credits take the richest when they invest in development, when they open up new production plants, when they create something, because out of that new capital, they'll get those loans back. It was not worth it to those who were in vain and in vain taking loans and spending on everything and everything, and also to the pioneer park and there some realities that are still going on today, so they're getting in the way today. I wouldn't talk about it anymore. The minister said a lot of good things today. He also pointed out about our rating, etc., but I think he accidentally forgot to mention the city of Belgrade and the "Mudis" American agency, which praised everything that is done in the city of Belgrade, financial stability, liquidity and the fact that there was no longer any debt that once was made by this team that now tweets and travels through Serbia, and is trying to boycott something. Well, you can't boycott life. They can't do anything with their pointless tweets, with their daily information Sunday voice that there's nothing wrong with Serbia. Do they feel that the average citizen of Serbia is so uneducated and that he knows so many things and does not understand politics? He understands much, much more than they understand themselves. When I say that, I'll mention the campaign last month to see the N1. They shut up when all the arguments were that they could see each other if they wanted to. Then they came up with all the things the opposition should be doing, criticising the government, they hit Serbian citizens in the heart with a stupid movie in two, which is not a film, which is pure propaganda, and it's called the "Government". Anyone who looked at it just thought that the perspective and the future could only see with Alexander Vuk and SNS, because it works, because it creates, unlike those who tweet, who try, and today it hit me especially in the ranks as a man who has survived a lot of things that is wrong, that this congregation majority did not want to adopt some laws, and it concerns child treatment. Ten times more funds are now approved than in 2012 for the treatment of children abroad. Well, are they trying to abuse someone else's torment and misfortune? You can see everything. I once experienced it a long time ago, I wasn't a child, and many children have experienced it, and thank God you don't have children to treat abroad, the fewer children, the better, and the state of Serbia and this majority and this government and this government has provided all the children with what they need. What's to say today? The traveling circus of Bosko Obradovica goes from town to town. Once upon a time, when I was young, there was a "Flying Cirque Monty Python", a very good humorous series, and what they were doing, they visited four cities where they had to have a big foothold, it doesn't look like anything. Five people in six places and he's talking about some fake elections, about regular elections, about elections that are every four years? And instead of coming out, to offer something contrary to what we're offering as SNS, this assembly majority, what this government is offering, what the President of the Republic is offering, they're playing. The opposition is playing. That's why I'm going to invite all of our citizens to the elections that follow us in April of the month, to vote with their voice, whether it's going to be the slogan of the SNS or not, and it says there - a voice for our children, because our children are all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71837	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71838	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, today we have more important agreements ahead of us. However, since I am a member of the Education Committee, I want to talk about an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia, which was signed in Skopje in 2019. This is when we confirm this agreement, which, in principle, offers a number of scholarships for graduate, postgraduate and doctoral studies, as well as a number of months of study stay for young researchers based on previously published competitions. The agreement also envisions that both sides will encourage direct co-operation between educational institutions, exchange of professors and exchange of experiences on reform of the education system. Serbia and Northern Macedonia will encourage work on joint scientific and research, development, innovation projects, co-operation in multilateral, regional programmes and projects, exchange of researchers and experts and joint scientific technological co-operation. The parties, in principle of reciprocity, will encourage mutual learning of language and literature and cooperate on the plan of involving children with special educational needs. This is an opportunity to remind ourselves of what the Ministry has done in recent years. The Law on dual and higher education was passed. She started working for the classification agency. The National Qualifications Framework is precise. A major shift has been made in dual education, as more than 4,000 students are involved, 32 dual profiles are active, 600 companies are engaged and student cooperatives are being continued. He started a reformed first year programme of high school, as well as a programme for talented people in the field of IT and computer science. This is also an opportunity to remind ourselves that there has been a reform of higher vocational schools and their implementation. We have become full members of Erasmus Plus projects and full members of CERN. A Law on the Science Fund has been passed, which is a great success, because this is the first new law passed in this area after 12 years. A key step in the reform of the system is the Law on Scientific Research, and the new Science Strategy until 2030 provides that much more resources are formed in the Fund not only from the Ministry of Education, but also from the ministry that uses the results of science, such as the Ministry of Economy, Agriculture, Energy or Construction. Science and technology parks in Novi Sad are ending. The stone is the cornerstone for the Niš Science and Technology Park, and compared to all that, it is a quality indicator in higher education. We even have serious interests from neighbouring countries and abroad to look at Serbia's experiences when it comes to the implementation of all these newspapers, and there are many of them. The exchange of experience is precisely in this Agreement with Macedonia. It is difficult to list all the achievements of the Serbian government in the area of education. Progress is enormous and this agreement proves that the mind knows no borders, but that it wants better education and scientific achievements to bring together more together and that state borders should not be an obstacle. With these other agreements on encouraging entrepreneurship or on free trade with the Euro-Asian Union or Central Europe, we connect in a easier and simpler transport of goods and services, and we become a full member of the global world market, although, as our head of the legislator group, Aleksandar Martinovic explained nicely and professorly that we are a small country that primarily takes care of our interests, regardless of who we love more or less, that is the essence of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71839	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Studenka Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71840	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, a handful of good agreements are on the agenda today. I will refer to this loan agreement for the Obrenovac heat pipeline project – Novi Belgrade between Serbia and China's Export – Import Bank. This contract was concluded in 2017 and the contract annex in 2019 and now it is up to us to confirm and continue the trend of good co-operation and positive experiences. The project is worth 193m euros and will mark 2020 as a year of realisation of a large ecological project that will provide even more quality heating, as the heat generated from TENT in Obrenovac will be used to heat up much of New Belgrade. This way, savings for the city of Belgrade will amount to about 16,000,000 euros annually. The 2020 budget law planned to lend to Chinese banks to finance 85% of the value of this project, while the remaining 15% will provide Serbia. The realisation of the project involves construction of heat pipelines from TENT in Obrenovac to the New Belgrade heat plant, as stated in the 2017 Memorandum of Understanding. I will remind you that we have entered the seventh year since the Chinese president presented the One Belt Project, which includes co-operation with Serbia in the field of energy. For us, it is of great importance that Serbia is such an important country in the Balkans in terms of a reliable business partner. We should certainly step up co-operation in the areas of economy, infrastructure, energy, then, health, culture, education, etc. However, Serbia signed agreements with China concerning road infrastructures, as well as those concerning the co-operation of the Post Office and the Chinese Development Bank. There is also growth in Chinese direct investment, which is Smederevo, Bor, Zrenjanin, etc. and this proves that Chinese partners have confidence in Serbia because they realize stable and long-term projects. It's the success of SNS and President Vukic. The possibility has been created for safe investment in Serbia and a stable business environment, which requires business people, which has also developed co-operation on capital projects that are of great importance for Serbia. Unlike the situation in which the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget was, today we are the first to attract foreign direct investment. With the work and commitment of Serbia progresses and we will continue to work on a organised, financially stable, economically stronger Serbia, a modern Serbia that will be able to mate to developed countries of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71841	Thank you, Mrs. Stojanović. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71842	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in this high House, we are discussing a set of laws that improve the lives of Serbian citizens from incentives for entrepreneurship to projects for the construction of the Obrenovac-New Belgrade thermal pipeline, then trade between Serbia and the Eurasian Union, and on the other hand we have those who destroyed Serbia, who were defeated in 2012, and who cannot understand and who advocate boycott and we have those, or the same people who supported the recording of the movie "Government," which we could see these days, which is pure propaganda and which is very hateful of talking about Serbian President Alexander Vukic. It is doubtless that the film speaks of those who do, of their character, of their values, of their dancing confidence, of their frustrations, but of the legally elected president who won as many votes in the last presidential election as they can dream. Therefore, speaking primarily to the citizens of Serbia, who hopefully listen to this transmission and who know that regular parliamentary and local elections will be called in a week or so, I want to share my position and my thinking. First, whether there is a democratic state in the world where journalists, hiding behind investigative journalism, lie, show the profile of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic drawing a number of times before he was targeted, and then say that there is media darkness and dictatorship in Serbia. Would on N1 television, for example, be shown a movie about Dragan Gilas about how and how he made so much money while he was in executive power, how many people were out of work, how many factories were closed, how many young people went abroad or how many times they drew, as I said, a target headed by Alexander Vukic and all threats to him and his family? Would the TV show a film about Bosko Obradovic, about how many times he insulted women, about the hangers on the terraces, about how he entered with Dragan Gilas in RTS, about how he had an attack with his supporters on journalist Pinka, Gordan Zelec, on Serbian Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic? It is a question that Serbian citizens should consider. What is particularly worrying in this film is that the protagonists of the film shown, which is now still shown on " YouTube", via N1 television, have divided the citizens of Serbia and humiliated them because they support Alexander Vukic and divided them into those who support him and those who are against him, which is unacceptable. It is also sad that they have overcome themselves and blame the Serbs for occupying Clay and Sarajevo and for being in their heads in the 1990s, which they unfortunately call upon. Despite everything, they cannot dispute the results achieved, cannot dispute the work, cannot dispute the invested energy and cannot dispute the fact that Aleksandar Vukic, as president of Serbia, cares about Serbia's interests. Of course I'll vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71843	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word is from a colleague named Nevenka Kostadinova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71844	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with co-workers, among the agreements on the agenda today is also the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement, so the projects of acceleration and innovation and the promotion of the growth of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because this is a very important agreement because it aims to improve scientific research and innovative development of entrepreneurship and access to finance, and in order to grow businesses and develop a competitive economy of the Republic of Serbia. Co-operation between the economy and research institutions is vital to the economic success of a country. To what extent companies have co-operation with scientific and research projects, so many companies will be more successful and competitive. The project itself is being implemented in three basic components. The first is the reform of the Research Sector and it consists of three sub-components. One of them is supporting the Republic of Serbia Science Fund to connect the private sector and the R & D sector. The second sub-component concerns the reform of the Research and Development Institute, and it includes institutional reforms of state research and development institutes on a voluntary basis. The third sub-component refers to co-operation with the scientific diaspora, which would give scientists who went out of the country and there an opportunity to enrich and upgrade their knowledge and to gain valuable experience, that these same experts would now help with their advice and participation in monitoring and management of the programme to transfer knowledge and skills to their home country and to cooperate in scientific research and to improve the project. Component two, so-called. ‘business acceleration’ is planned in two sub-components. One is intended for early stages, so ideas, and another for companies in the growth phase, i.e. their reinforcements. The aim of this programme is to increase the scientific potential for business growth. Component three refers to project implementation, monitoring and capacity building. This project is in line with the strategy for partnership in the area of economic governance and the role of the state and the growth of the private sector, and all in order to create and improve the positive climate, which gives the opportunity to create new jobs and economic empowerment, which is the main priority of the policy and work of this government. Therefore, all three project components contribute to the implementation of that strategy, with the activities of the Fund relating to research and development in the public sector, and the activities related to the diaspora provide an opportunity for innovation in the public and private sectors. In view of all the above, it is clear that this project is very important for scientific and research work and progress on the one hand, as well as for the development of businesses and the public and private sectors on the other hand, especially for the economy of our country which has failed for many years back, resulting in unemployment, poverty, poverty and migration. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been working systematically and systematically to address these problems since the SNS took over. This loan is an investment for the future, investment in recovery, growth and development of the economy, investment in a better life and better tomorrow, for us, for our children and for new generations. Of course, in the voting day, I will support these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71845	Thank you, colleague Kostadinova. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71846	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Mali, I am pleased to see you very often in this high house, which speaks of you and your ministry and your dedicated work, which you have already proven while you were mayor of Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will support, as well as my colleagues from the SNS of this bill, and in particular the bill to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Project for Accelerating Innovation and Encouraging Enterprise Growth in the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens, MPs of science, I address you, I am glad that this agreement is on the agenda today, and I am glad that half of the funds, 22.5 million, will go to the Fund for the Science of the Republic of Serbia, which we, as you know, have founded in this meeting of the National Assembly on the welfare of scientific workers and on the well-being of science and on the well-being of our country, mainly for the financing of certain projects. This way around 220 scientific projects will be supported, which is very important for our researchers, where nearly 800 researchers from 50 institutions will be hired. The second part of the funds will go towards reforming the Research and Development Institute, eightm euros and a third of the funds will be hired for a co-operation programme with the Serbian scientific diaspora. Three and a half million, it is of paramount importance, because it is precisely the SNS, whose president and president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, that in the past 40 years has established a link with the diaspora, and I am glad that 3.5m euros are invested under the Science Fund, to allow the Serbian diaspora to help research and innovation in entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that on the very proposal of Alexander Vukic this assembly of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the first time in history has defined the Serbian cultural space in general. I don't have time to tell you now how many of our diaspora in a country has members, but let me just say, in 13 countries 2,035,000 and it's time for us to take care of every citizen in the diaspora, especially as you see in science. Dear People's MPs, I am truly sorry that one part of the opposition, especially those of the Alliance for Serbia, are propagating a boycott of the election. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they boycott this parliamentary democracy and that is the essence. Actually, they're pushing for a dictatorship with that. That's what all those who know at least a little about democracy know that's the case. Together, respected citizens, you and I need to fight this boycott, because a boycott of the election is not a democratic act. He's a dictatorial act. Boycott leads to chaos, as you know, leading citizens to the streets, and this often leads to bloodshed, in fact to chaos, as did the same ones from the Alliance for Serbia in 2000, in the streets of the cities of the Republic of Serbia, when chaos came to power and brought the Republic of Serbia to the brink, led to bankruptcy. For their authorities, they destroyed everything, as you know, our past, the future of our children. If they'd stayed only a year in power, they'd have destroyed our roots. That, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you didn't allow it, because you threw them out, or you threw them into the dump of history, from which I believe they'll never come back, so let them boycott this part as much as you want. Do it, respected citizens, and in the next election, because that's your power. Let's do it more than ever, so we don't go back to chaos and hopelessness. You've seen a film about the Satanization of the President of the Republic and everything he's done with his associates. I talked about it yesterday and the day before yesterday, but let me just repeat one more person. That's where she found herself, as I said yesterday, and the lovely Dr. Branko Prppa. I have to tell you what this lady did. She formed a commission as the director of the historical archive in Belgrade, which destroyed all the material in connection with an investigation into Predrag Gojkovic's alleged suicide in Sasa Jankovic's apartment, called the Pranja Sala, in 1993. Believe it or not, but he did, I got a written answer, because I was asking, as you know, and parliamentary questions in this high house. Imagine why she did it. We've talked about it here, maybe the citizens don't remember what reason. In that film, this poor woman lied about President Vukic accused him of what he never, ever, anyone who knew him, would do. But now I ask her a question and I ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia – what role did this poor woman play in that act for what the president is accusing? Here, as you can see last night, on some boycott of several citizens in Kragujevac, Marinika Tepic also reports. She showed up with Dragan Gilas in Kragujevac. She's an electric rabbit of Dragan Gilas, because she's working on a button, which he tells her. She lied to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that there was a secret state-owned marijuana plantation on the Morovic military facility near Shida, as you know. When journalists went and visited military facilities in Morovic, they found chickens there, found coke carriers and eggs ready to sell. Even Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Jesic, our otherwise political opponents, said there was a military farm there with a stretcher, eggs and tow chicken, which has existed for 40 years. This impertinent lies also do irreparable damage to the dedicated industry of the Republic of Serbia, in particular "Krusik", and thus systematically works, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, against the national and national interests of the Republic of Serbia. Dragan Djilas, otherwise Boss Marinika Tepic, continues with her to lie shamelessly from day to day. All these lies are covered by new lies, new affairs, and that's how they spin around in circles. Old lies suffer new lies. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the honourable MPs, who today remembers their lies about Jovanica or who today remembers their lies about "France", about hundreds of dead people floating around Obrenovac, when they lied? Who remembers their lies today about kidnapping journalists who tried to stage themselves? Who today remembers the death threats that they wrote to themselves on the sidewalks of the Republic of Serbia, or the fiction of child abductions? Dragan Djilas, otherwise known as the Giki Mafia, lied that the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, while visiting Abu Dhabi in December 2018, slept in the most expensive hotels, where the night allegedly cost 10,000 euros. The truth is, as you know, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic has not stayed at any hotel and the state of Serbia has not cost him a single penny. Dragan Gilas found it appropriate after five months to say only one sentence - that he lied. He confessed to that lie after all. With his claims, the Gicky Mafia has proved to be a great liar, and therefore, respected citizens, should not be trusted. That is why it is perfectly normal that in the cities of Serbia these days you can find more and more placed graphs on which it says, I quote: "The more slander and lies, the more wolf we prefer." That's the answer to this movie that's being shown. This is the response of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the Satanisation of Alexander Vukic in a film that is the N1 CIA, otherwise television of deception and lies and financial television by Dragan Gilas and Solak. Finally, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I ask a few questions to you and to us -- who first marked NATO aggression on our country? Answer you, honourable MPs, you of opposition and position. Of course Alexander's a wolf. Who said first - I don't want to go to NATO? The answer you know, the respected citizens of Serbia, but I don't know if the MPs know, the ones that aren't here today? Of course Alexander's a wolf. The third question - who first said they wouldn't impose sanctions on Russia? Alexander Wolfie. On that question, I got a bet from two university professors who didn't make it and I'm asking them to do it. The fourth question: who first told the West -- you're not gonna stop me from working with Russia and friendly China? Who first raised Serbia's army to an envious level after the bombing of our country in 1999? Well, of course he's Alexander Wolf. And the last question, the last two questions: who first recovered the 166th leaf after 175 years of Miroslav's gospel where it belonged? Well, of course Alexander's a wolf. Remember well, honourable MPs, and you who watch from the offices of this high house and you from the house that you boycott, and of course these here. I know it's hard for them to listen to this, but they're gonna have to -- who's the first, last, only free ruler in Europe today? Answer if you have the courage. Of course Alexander's a wolf. In the end, all the pressures on our country, its president and the accusations that come from different sides, both from both outside and inside, from domestic NATO dusters, speak of the regularity and strength of Serbian political independence and independence that our President Aleksandar Vukic has staged. So once again, we can really say that Aleksandar Vukic is the last and only free leader in Europe. In that name, we will uphold these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71847	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71848	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to join today's joint evaluations that the agreements we're talking about are really worthy of support. It is a serious and responsible relationship with the state, which, among other things, can be seen through the development of the kind of our interests that further strengthen our economy, the economy we talked about today. You, Mr. Minister, have put a lot of valuable things on the subject. The other messengers also spoke about it. It is important that the citizens of this country first and foremost remind themselves of how different, significantly different, in a positive sense, the different situation in Serbia, about the economy and the accompanying opportunities today, compared to the period we had backwards, well, for a few years alone. So Serbia has essentially changed for the better in this regard. We could still remember today that even those who politically belong to the opposite side, so it can't be said that they have a single shift of political sympathy for us, for Alexander Vukic, SNS, anyone who supports that policy, but they still have to admit some things that are just as clear and obvious as the fact that it's completely unintelligent to ignore them or to deny them. For example, they have to admit today, and they can say that -- the macroeconomic stability in Serbia today is a completely different universe compared to the period when we were literally on the brink of bankruptcy, and that was the consequence, the disastrous consequence of the terrible irresponsibility shown by those people who during the former regime were obliged to take care of order in this country, its good interests and the fate of its citizens. You, so, to the evil God of irresponsible men, have led us to the brink of destruction. Today, we are a stable country. And that's not what we're saying, that's what the relevant international factors say that look at all of this on the side and they don't have the need for anyone here to cheer, but simply measure, compare some data there and say -- Serbia is literally a star when looking at its economic development today. In addition, they recently found this in an important publication at the international level, a publication published by the Financial Times. These people said -- Serbia is an absolutely successful country in terms of economic opportunities today. It is important that people know that when these irresponsible and irresponsible people took care of, well, we know what everything, about their pocket, about their bank accounts, about their private businesses, were seen to gnaw, like the yellow tycoon Gilas Dragana by 619 million incomes on their companies, or to get well in and out with white-world hohstapplers and international gangs of thieves, such as Patrick Hou, which, of course, did Vuk Jeremic and everyone else, there are no special differences between them. We were then thinking in categories of deficits, which is large and significant every year, in growth categories that are not growth but is a decline, and also large and significant, we were thinking in the categories of unemployment that is growing and which has beaten up up to about 26%. Look at Serbia today. When we discuss the budget here from year to year and we say, you see this deficit, this deficit is not only within the framework of what is the standard for Europe, but it is several times, four, five, six times smaller than what Europe considers acceptable, so we say, and now look at that unemployment rate, from these fantastic Gilas and Jeremic 26%, as it can fall below 10. It could fall and fall under 10. And look, if you're interested, some people here like to talk about absolute numbers, just absolute numbers of employees in this country. Here, let's not go after ourselves about whose statistics are better and better, just look how many of those people who got the job, found, got a job, and didn't have it a few years back. That's hundreds of thousands. Hundreds of thousands and that someone doesn't like the official statistics that it says – 700 thousand people are registered as employees more than that period there. No, he says it's a mistake, even if it's a mistake, it's back in hundreds of thousands and it's 600,000 as big as a house. If it were half a million, it's still incomparably better than half a million of those who were thrown out on the street, who were out of work in the tycoon time. These are things that can't be compared absolutely. Let's also look at the income differences, compare and know their fantastic 320-euro average, which was the average for republican income, what's it look like? Is this more or less compared to this 500-euro average today, which we say – the fact that others say that they are looking at us from the side and saying – yes, it is, and what we're adding to, and now we're going to do more. It's not a done job, but we're going to make it more than that, and we're even saying that, by a project that says, investment in accordance with the "Serbia 20-25" plan. That's what we're going to push, to grow, so it's going to be 700 and 800 and up to 900 euros to do, because we can, we have how, there are conditions for that. All of this is achieved when it is done seriously and responsibly, when domestically treats Serbia, so when it is seen that its interest is being further protected at all times, that its perspectives, wherever possible, are opened, among other things, to one of the Agreements regarding our performance, is being played by our country on the Euro-Asian Union market. The market is new to 180 million users. It's a fantastic thing. Who can not support it or pretend that he does not understand why it is useful? Only the one who won't. So, only one who absolutely doesn't have a single understanding of the desire to support what's good for other people in this country, which is good for the country, which is good for the people, but only looks at some of his selfish interests, so he doesn't respond politically to what has been achieved at a time when Alexander Vukic and SNS are concerned about Serbia. Which isn't someone else in power, so that he can boast of this, that's why he's no good. But this is, if everyone's going to be honest, to the end honest, only good and something that can only be useful to us. As far as the CEFTA agreement is concerned, we here, so someone here has been talking again about what imports are today, and what exports are, well, here we have at CEFTA level 270 million euros plus. What's better than making that plus bigger? What's more important is that we do more work on this agreement, so we open up an additional space for services that will make Serbia the most useful and even greater plus that we make, so that we invest in these salaries and pensions that we talk about, but also in everything else that we finance with success today, and it was once absolutely unimaginable. To develop entrepreneurship, that's right. Innovation to encourage, that's right. A brand-new fund for science, a brand-new concept of funding that implies stable funding at institutional level, but also a competition through projects, so all that's competitive, which leads us right to the future, so that we can support it financially today, so that we can show the world what we have to compete with, and what we can compete on, and take it out and make it even better. These, so significant in a positive way, are dramatically better, the opportunities in our budget to still fix. So, in these things anyone who wants can participate, not just one who has no interest in showing that he cares about something. That's the basis of the whole story. By acting like this and supporting these good solutions, we have come to the opportunity today to finance all of these things that we're in need of, literally, and not just these years ago, that have been destroyed by tycoons and thieves, but for decades. We're funding today and we're successfully realising such good things as, say, Corridor 11 just because we now have what we have. Corridor 10 to finalize. So, the southern and eastern arms of that road that is of continental importance. We did it today. So at this time when thanks to good, wise and responsible policy, a policy that says – work, first of all, the result as the only criterion we have to finance. Thanks to such conduct, we have everything else we talk about with great pleasure and work. We have, therefore, to finance and finance and build and end and end scientific and technological parks. We have, therefore, to work and work and finish and clinics. Among other things, since some, I see myself today, are livingly wondering what we can and what we do, it was once unimaginable. Yeah, we can and we can work, to do more and better than ever treat our children. I say this because today the great political leader Sergei Trifunovic came to the National Assembly. He's getting all worked up here to turn himself in, he says, some kind of letter and try on that subject, so on the subject of child healing, he's a little bit of a media prophesy today. You know how? By coming here to the presidents of the National Assembly, we from the SNS parliamentary group and, he says the same thing, I don't know who else he's sharing a letter with, accusing us shamelessly of not wanting to support the children being treated, now I'm going to read to you how he wrote it -- to provide a chance for the lives of children she hasn't followed, to allow sick children to be treated where conditions exist. So, we don't want to do this, we want the kids to not be healthy, to be sick, we want those kids to be bad. That's what he said here, telling us that we're uncharted slaves, we're SNS, I don't know if this is the letter he sent to the SRS and the SPS or anyone else. He's still saying that Mrs. Gojkovic, as well as he only knows how to do, is chocolate, and we're all able to think about what else and we stopped being human and everything on the subject. So this man on this subject knows absolutely nothing. If he knew anything, but at least he would know something that today Serbia is treating children better, more successful than ever before, and especially better and especially more successful than in his time and those tycoons and shovels, so when you compare what it looked like once, and what it looks like today, so you can look at whatever you want, but literally whatever you want, you can just ask yourself -- what is it with these people in your head? Serbia, today's Serbia, Serbia taken care of by Aleksandar Vucic and the SNS for the purpose of treating children abroad, I guess he meant that, but it's so written that he couldn't explain it in his letter either, so by tweets there, she's singled out nearly 11 billion dinars for these purposes, so 90 million for treatment abroad, for the treatment of rare diseases. You want to compare it, if we have to compare it to what they did and how much did they do? We don't have a problem. Four billion through the RFO and the special budget fund, a special budget fund that was created only for that purpose, and you know when and by whom, in 2014, on the personal initiative of Alexander Vukic by the Serbian government, not by Trifunovic, nor this Marinika, nor this Gilas, nor the others who have always cared about children, as they have always cared about anyone in this country except themselves and their pocket. So in this fund and the RFZO and this particular budget, these funds are allocated and how many more people are directed abroad to be treated for orderly size. You look from year to year 2009. In 2010, it was measured by some tens of them, and maybe sometimes 100 and a few people a year, and then you come across a period of Serbia taken care of by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, so when there are funds to isolate and when someone is concerned about doing so, it's 600, 700, at 800 a year. In this way over four thousand people, and surely more than two thousand children are directed to be treated abroad and thank God many have been cured and many have been helped. Let's look at the treatment of rare diseases. Since 2012, this is where it stands out. It exists as a category, as a problem the state is dealing with. Seven billion has been allocated from 2012 to today. Do you know what it is by 2012? Zero, zero dinars, zero euros, zero anything. Now they come to us to smarten up, they tell us that we're homeless, slaves, shepherds, etc. They're not ashamed. Zero was set aside for the kids on that point, and we who, I say once again, when it is added up, that's 90 million people who weren't in their time, because they only needed their pockets, they didn't care about the kids. Now it's secure and spent on this side. They'll make us smart, imagine. Of course that's not all. When we talk about what we do for children to be treated as well as where there are conditions, so did this great politician Sergei Trifunovic. First of all, we do, with all that I've already mentioned, the fact that we have conditions for children to be treated here. Who got the X knife, who got the knife and when he got the gamma knife? How much did those procedures cost? How much do they cost abroad to work, and in their time they could only work abroad? That's 10 per, at 20,000 euros per treatment once. When you look at hundreds of people who are allowed to do so in Serbia today, it is the only way that we have saved 40m euros, that is how much we have provided for these types of protection for children, of course, and for everyone else. When you look at everything else in this country that's been done on that subject, it's the sky versus the earth, but the pomegranate one, one hole that they've done in their time, and today they find themselves smart to come here and ask all the MP groups -- why don't you let the children heal? Well, they're being treated, but it has nothing to do with you. It has nothing to do with you, and as long as the people of this country are asked, they will never, or anything else, have to do with you. That's the kind of job nobody wants to have with them. The overall health care of ours today, which in their time was not even ranked even at European level, we had no rank, none of us recognized, today it seems, from last year's data, 18 total in Europe. You know what that means? That there are probably nine EU member states that we have better and better quality health care. Who did it, who secured it and when did it happen? These are the things he is obliged to meet this Sergei Trifunovic, let someone convince him as he goes from party to party or let him read it to him, just to take off those dark glasses he wore and today he's likely to hide the hangover. That is a terrible difference compared to the Serbia they were dealing with. Of course, in order for everything to be possible, in order to ensure and realise, everyone participated and everyone, for their part, participated in and participated, both for the part of the President of the Republic, in the domain of what the Government was doing and of course the National Assembly. And the National Assembly, if they are particularly concerned about the congregation that the ignorant knows the most common, he and his men have already done it, and not once, against the messengers of the people. You remember they certainly made warrants completely, so they put together photos of the MPs from the previous call, all with the following text – these won't vote for a solution for our children to be treated. These people who have put God’s justice on the pursuits, these people have voted in this Zeo’s Law National Assembly. These people have ensured that rare diseases are being treated and that they have nothing to do with Gilasa or Jeremiah, or Marines, and especially these Sergeis and Trifunovics. No, they and theirs on the day that we voted for it, so we adopted it as a parliamentary majority, you didn't even come to the vote. They didn't find it appropriate to try so hard to come here and make so much effort to push the button with their finger and say yes, I'm up for it. You'll be re-smart and re-printing fake warrants to wave these people in front of their noses and threaten them with social media. These are shameless people, people who know nothing about anything and who don't care about anything and who don't care about it. Before they ask us any question, let them resolve the moral, ethical and all the other dilemmas that are required to solve where Sergei Trifunovic said there are conditions for it. In their case, this would mean in front of the mirror, and surely the SNS, the Serbian government that we support, and Aleksandar Vukic, as president of the state, will continue to do everything that is important for this country, useful, important, to strengthen further, to build up, to raise standards, to build the infrastructure we have waited for too long and to provide for a better, safer and more important, more important future for everyone in this country. Of course, in the first place for those whose future, first of all, belongs to and that means for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71849	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71850	Thank you. When someone writes to me, it's right and polite to answer from this place. I'm sorry that a politician representing a small, minor, extra-parliamentary party with a tendency to remain unparliamentary for the next four years did not come personally to hand me that letter. I'd be happy to see him in my office and explain to him that he doesn't know anything. He doesn't know anything, or he's so mean, so maligned, and he can fall so low in the desire to be an attractive citizen of Serbia, he actually knows everything, but he's decided to lie and muddy the people who run this country and use those very lowest emotional feelings in people, which is when we mention kids. But I am sorry that Sergei Trifunovic did not send this letter yesterday in his short documentary "Juli Jim", and in the middle of Marinika Tepic, he did not send this letter to Parliament by Marina Tepic and asked what she, as the province's duchy youth and sports minister, did in four years, when she was one of the ministers in the province's government at Bojan, precisely for children, exactly for the youth, and what she did in the province's government in order for the children on the territory of the AP Vojvodina to be treated abroad on rare diseases? Now, I'm interested in how many lives she's saved, how humane she was when she was powerful, one of the levers of power of the most powerful man in our country, Bojan Pajtic, who was 16 years old something either in the town of Novi Sad or in Vojvodina or in the Republic of Serbia, what did she do here? When the three Gilas, Sergei Trifunovic, called Julie Jimi, are their partner, Marinika Tepic, driving around Serbia and filming some documentary videos about how great they are and how well they mess around our country, then why don't they talk about some important topics and why she doesn't ask Marinika Tepic how she missed four years of life to do something good for our children? I'm interested in that, and let's not worry about Alexander Wolfie. Aleksandar Vukic was founded by the Fund for the Treatment of Children of Rare Diseases while he was Prime Minister. No one's ever done that before. Nobody. He could have been this Gilas, he was running some kind of trust fund and some kind of state president's office, and he was doing all sorts of things. He could have been private, since he was a millionaire and a billionaire, he could have formed a foundation in private – Gilas, the one on the left on his side, while he recorded these contributions, made one foundation and helped sick children. Well, he's a father of four, so he can spare a little money for a fifth who's sick. I did not have the privilege of treating my family when I was supposed to treat the state cost, but I am proud that Alexander Vukic has allowed some children in our country to be treated from the fact that there is a fund for treating children, that paragraph 25 of point 3 in the Serbian budget for this year, divided into the Ministry of Health, there is an exact amount, a million of how much money we have allocated to the Children's Treatment Fund from rare diseases. Last year, the kids took advantage of it. Let's just say, a special neurostimulator used to work abroad. He worked mostly for people who were suffering from parkisonism and some similar diseases. Thanks to this fund, children are now headed to Prague with the same method, and there they are being treated by those unsolicited movements and becoming children just like everyone else. As far as I know, some failed, girls who later became women, after a few years managed to become parents. Now, to answer to Sergei Trifunovic, who has nothing to do today, writes 10 sentences, calls me a shepherd, and I'm proud of it. I'm proud that there are people of country origin in this country, I'm proud of people who are shepherds, but also to tell him – a shepherd makes sheep. If I'm a chop, then those who call me that should be recognized in that second part of the song. In my rural neighborhood in Novi Sad, which he occasionally visits when he goes out at night in cafes and clubs, we have sheep in our neighborhood, in that part of the song. Let's be serious. So, I don't know, it's going to be the finance minister to check exactly if it's 600 million dinars more or more, but don't look at it as millions, look at how many kids are going to be able to be treated abroad this year, which are hard to get. But that fund is also being punished by those administrative penalties received by MPs who do not behave properly in our parliament. There, it is a contribution, perhaps to the treatment of children with rare diseases, because one, two, three sentences, she gave to the fund. It is her contribution, but I say to Sergey Trifunovic, it may be useful when he goes to talk to the citizens of Serbia, 10, 20 or 100, as many of them tried to propagated the boycott of the election yesterday, that as he rides with Marinika Tepic, while driving with Gilas, to talk to them, because they were extremely powerful people in this country, to ask Gilas why he never founded this fund and to ask Marinika Tepic why he never did anything while she was a minister in the province administration for four years. You'll see in a few days, we'll also be discussing the law on gambling, 40% of the funding that comes from gambling, separates itself for this very purpose. This country is doing a lot of work, this country is really doing a lot for the future of our children, and every life of our child is extremely valuable to us, but some people aren't worth explaining. Sergei Trifunović is everything, but he's not a stupid man. He knows exactly where the shooting is, he knows who he's insulting, but what he doesn't know, he doesn't know that Serbian citizens appreciate people who are doing something in this life, who aren't just the purpose of being in politics to send false news, so that we have to waste time here to deny it, so that now he has a chance on social networks to insult the Government of Orlic, to insult me, and to spin around in circles. Now, let's wait for that election day to see how much the policies of Aleksandra Vukic, the Maia her and her colleagues from the SNS, and our coalition partners are worth, how much the other participants are worth in this election process, and how many people, as for the future of Serbia and for the future of our children, will choose that boycott that he so earnestly propagates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71851	Thank you, President. Are any of the other authorised representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Yeah. Mr. Alexander Seselj, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71852	People's MPs, I'm very unpleasantly surprised that Mr. Mali is taking very little part in today's debate, only Mr. Atlagic has referred more than six questions, for which we have not heard the answer. So maybe it would be more correct on his part to maybe get a little more involved. But anyway, whenever spoken, and so today has been during today's session, about foreign policy, about the reasons for signing the agreement, there is one distinct contradiction between action, i.e. The co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with various states, so today we have heard that some are called partners, some are called friendly, but we have heard essentially very conflicting views, when it comes to our foreign policy. As it is already certain, I will remind the MPs, so from 2000 to the beginning of our famous European integration path, we are listening to the same stories, which is from billions at the border to just to meet this, to fulfill it, and we will finish everything with regard to our EU accession. If we implement this until the end of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, we will enter the EU, so when the state of Serbia has so humiliated and delivered all those sought by the UN tribunal, including the former president of the Republic, we have actually realized that this has nothing to do with each other, i.e. European integration was not at all the subject of the debate when it came to The Hague tribunal. The situation has been such since 2008 and with KIM. Earlier, as we hear today about legally binding agreements, we talked earlier about Ahtisaari's plan and the receipt of Ahtisaari's plan. Then lately, we're only listening, so if Serbia signs a legally binding agreement with the so-called so-called. Kosovo, around the EU door will be open. But with us passing reality and processes in today's EU, messages coming from the EU's most important politicians, such as Emanuel Makron, who is the main political authority today in Europe, has made it very clear that the EU will no longer expand and will be committed to the reforms of the remaining 27 members when the UK leaves the EU. In recent elections for the European Parliament, not only French MPs, but also some German, Dutch, in the pre-election debates, the question of whether they agree with the enlargement of the EU, and more than 70% of the people to whom the issue is being asked, answered no. How can it not be clear to us now, so step by step we have been doing over 20 years something that was not in our exclusive interest, in order to ultimately achieve this future uncertain circumstance, which is Serbia's EU membership. We have done a lot on this road and given up all sorts of things, especially in terms of territorial integrity, the damage that this co-operation brings through the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and everything else, and we do not still have the answer to that question today. I will remind you, since 2008 and the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we are unilaterally applying this agreement in terms of the elimination of customs duties, and the loss has been estimated, I didn't come up with it, but these are data published by some European statistical agencies and can even be found on the CIA site, that this is a loss of around 500m euros per year due to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So our co-operation is one-sided. What they need is what we do, and in return, we get promises, and that's how it's been 20 years. To make madness even bigger, there is one foreign policy success for the government to give recognition, which is a campaign to withdraw recognition of Kosovo's independence. Over the past four years, it seems to me, more than 17 or 18 states have withdrawn that recognition. One success to be congratulated on. But in a conflict with the official views of the Government of the Republic of Serbia concerning Serbia's EU membership, as long as Serbia suppresses a legally binding agreement with so-called. Kosovo, or Belgrade and Pristina, and the agreement opens the door to Kosovo's membership in the UN, Kosovo becomes a member of the UN, will no longer mean that a country has withdrawn recognition since it will be considered, by collective recognition system, that all UN members have recognised the independence of each other UN member. Also, we had pompous celebrations of our diplomacy's success when on several occasions Kosovo failed to become a member of UNESCO, it did not reach enough for most of the countries to vote for it, and if a legally binding agreement is signed, Kosovo becomes a member of the UN, neither for Interpol, nor for UNESCO, but Kosovo becomes a member of automation. Then what's this campaign and celebration gonna mean to us? And to interpret these messages in another way, it is nothing new, but it appeared at the end of the year, at the end of last year a new genius solution that should replace Serbia's path to the EU, which is the idea of "little Schengen". Never did the Serbian Progressive Party mention it in the campaign. She never suggested anything like that until the end of last year. It was never discussed in the congregation. This topic was absolutely not present in our public, and we have now received announcements that this is a brilliant, rescue solution for our economy, that this huge, successful economy of Serbia will absorb approximately Northern Macedonia and Albania, i.e. their economies and we're just going to make a profit out of it. We believe that this is not the case, given the experience in co-operation with these countries that were under the auspices of the European Union. Just look at the situation from Croatia. Can a Serbian businessman be successful there today? No, I don't. There is first opposition from official state bodies against the business of businessmen from Serbia in Croatia, and then to the systematic boycott of Serbian goods found there. We have more than 50 Croatian companies in Serbia, and even 10 of them do not operate in Croatia when it comes to these large companies. It's today's reality. Why should we believe that he will be in co-operation with Albania differently? There's talk of open borders. How are we going to achieve this now that we're going to be able to travel without borders, and in fact only without passports, borders still exist, instead of passports should be given ID when crossing the border. You can't see any success here. Nor do we think there is a need for Serbian citizens to travel to Albania without passports. It is not a favorite tourist destination, it is not a destination to which some goods will be placed, from the Serbian citizens' point of view. That's our opinion. And we get that Albanians, except for Kosovo and Metohija, who can now enter as they will without Serbia's control, will also be able to enter central Serbia without passports, and otherwise we have such a regime with Montenegro and with Northern Macedonia and with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is our agriculture and even the economy really so successful that we can be one of the benefits of a future "little Schengen" to talk about making export possible, i.e. Imports of agricultural products from Albania? Are we missing any agricultural products? Is our agriculture so successful, we probably satisfy our entire exports, so we need products from Albania now? So, this is one dilemma, and we would like the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to specifically explain to us exactly what our interest in "little Schengen" is, and not to mention that it has been said by the President of the Republic and Mrs. Ana Brnabic that the way of connecting through "small Schengen" will allow both Northern Macedonia and Albania and Serbia to become members of the European Union as a whole. So what's the delusion? Is someone really so naive to believe in such a promise or unintelligent to think it's true from the point of view? We don't think so. We have been taught the experience that Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija are boycotting and votes from central Serbia and have entered that affair with poisoned, allegedly, voices that have arrived from central Serbia. And now we expect that we will place Serbian products in Albania. The situation is completely schizophrenic. We also heard from Minister Ljajic about 500m euros in losses due to the customs regime, i.e. taxis introduced by the government in Pristina on goods from central Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Where have our mediators helped us in the Brussels dialogue or our partners from the European Union to remove these obstacles to the Serbian economy? Not to mention how Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija and what difficulties they are going through to supply basic goods, supplies and medicines. We think it's one argument against "little Shengen". Also, we have one real danger to the so-called so-called. The republic of Kosovo sits at a table when this "little Schengen" is formed. And what do you think it is an implicit recognition of Kosovo's independence if it is an equal state from these three sovereign states and members of the United Nations? If it will be presented through Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, as was also announced by the president of the Republic, I am not sure that Kosovo and Metohija Marko Djuric will represent the future forums of "little Schengen". More like it's going to be Albin Kurti. So these are all the dangers that no one can analyse, which no one can see because in return we are getting commendation from the European Union and we are still blindly in love with our European future that does not exist and we have been placed to the knowledge that it does not exist. We are also accused today, the SRS, of being approximately pathologically in love with Russia, the Russian Federation, the Eurasian Union, of not taking into account the fact that Serbia is a European country, etc., what we couldn't hear. We are Russians, we advocate the closer integration of Serbia and the Russian Federation, but not because we have such feelings, but because the facts say it is better for Serbia. What has the Stabilisation and Association Agreement brought us for the past 12 years? It's only damage. What has led us to negotiate with the European Union? A Brussels agreement that we set out to clean up Serbian institutions from northern Kosovo. Where did we go? On the other hand, we have the opportunity to co-operate with countries that do not make political conditions on Serbia when it comes to the economy. We will not get any conditions from the Russian Federation if we turn to the Eurasian Economic Union, and we have already won at a time when we wanted to take advantage of the situation in which Europe was found when they first imposed sanctions on Russia. Minister Rasim Ljajic announced that this is a chance to increase and stimulate exports primarily of agricultural, but also other products in the Russian Federation, we have received an e-memoir from former European Union representative in Serbia Michael Davenport, which recommends that this is not done in a nice way, and it is said in a diplomatic way that Serbia is forbidden to do so. The government of the Republic of Serbia listened to Michael Davenport in 2014. It's a picture and an opportunity for our relationship. So it's okay, it's modern, it's progressive when we're working with the European Union, and when we want to look for our economic interest somewhere else, well, it's not in line with European values, it's not in line with foreign policy definitions and it's not friendly to the European Union. It's a message sent to Serbia. I'll remind you of the difference between large companies, businessmen coming from the European Union and from the West and those coming from the east at all. One of the most successful companies today, if not the most successful in Serbia, is the oil industry of Serbia. Who saved Jellyzar in Smederev? Did Alexander Vukic say it was a burning problem for the Serbian economy? He doesn't know what he's gonna do with 5,000 people, the losses are huge, it's tried and professional management, nothing's done. Who bought it? Is this one of our partners from Germany, France and from where? No, it's from China, and it's from the Bor mine. So these are the facts. The difference is that businesses from the European Union come here to suck up the budgets they receive as subsidies, they are only interested in extraprofits with as little money invested as possible, and often they are ten times smaller, if not 100 times less than the funds that Serbia gives to these businesses who come here and after doing what they want and have one blackmailing position towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where they say roughly when the subsidy regime expires, if you are not ready for a new subsidy arrangement, we will leave Serbia, and you with these workers do whatever you want. That's the situation with the Fiat every year. The Chinese companies coming to Serbia come here to stay, because they are not interested in making profits in the past year or two businesses, but stay here and invest strategically in the long term. These are facts, and we are not talking about our traditional ties and historical, friendly and that in 2015 alone, the Russian Federation vetoed the Security Council and the UN on a resolution proposed by Mr Arsic to call them Serbian partners, Great Britain, where Serbs are marked genocide and talk about genocide in Srebrenica. That's what the Russians stopped. Not to mention that our biggest protectors and friends are in matters of territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia and the dams of the so-called. Kosovo to become a member of the UN, not to ignore it, an economic account on the other side. Today, the richest part of the world in the east, Southeast Asia is today the richest region in the world and the most perspective, and we are focusing on the part of the world that is at the end of the economics and economic opportunities, because it is not the 19th century but the 21st century and all for the reasons of stability, and when it is said stability, it means that no one is jeopardising the current ruling set from the EU, because it is already founded understanding in Serbia, that it can only be in power if it is apologising from Brussels, such as Tomislav Nikolic congratulated three hours before the closure of the polling stations and the greatest danger is not citizens who may vote for someone else, but that these are not congratulating someone else. Now, that's the main danger. That's why our position is and what we stand for, is not isolation, we want to co-operate with everyone on a bilateral basis if there is a common interest in why we do not co-operate with either Germany, France, Italy and other EU countries. But not at all political conditions that will result in the end of secession of a piece of territory. We believe that the time has come, but experience has shown us only these 20 years, that we need to focus on our own national economic interest and that we are looking for full membership in the Eurasian Economic Union, that there is a future for our country, and that these issues of the past are left in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71853	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. We have two more registered speakers. You'll be here at 18 at the presentation. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71854	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, today we have on the agenda a draft law confirming the loan agreement, a loan for the negotiation of a foreign project on construction, a project for the construction of the Obrenovac, New Belgrade, a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Loan, an application project, an innovation, a boost for entrepreneurship growth in the Republic of Serbia, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, a mutual recognition of qualified services from trust provided in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and the European Economic Union and its Member States, on the other hand, and a proposal for an additional protocol on trade in services of the Agreement amending and accession to the Agreement on Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe. So one, two, three, four, not a European law against possibly a semi-European law. As someone who doesn't belong to a party who wants to join the EU at all, who wants Serbia to one day stand on its feet and be fully stable economically, financially strong by the end of the war, then the Serbian citizens decide whether or not they want to enter the EU, if it exists at all. The reason why the Socialist Movement supports this ruling majority and participates in its work is because today's agenda shows that the government has been committed exclusively to the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia since 2012 or the ruling coalition to this day. To be different, we would not be part of the ruling coalition, because simply Serbia is always and will always be above all else. I have not been able to find anywhere that anyone has talked about removing borders, that there will be no border crossings between Serbia, Macedonia, Albania, that it will cross the border as it pleases or wherever it wants, but only a loud thought is made that in a simplified procedure with ID cards. And in which the difference between the passport and the ID issued by a dominant state is made it easier to move everyone living in this area. Serbia has never prevented anyone, but I am sure that even then it will know that in the same way, if not better than it is now, it is controlling who enters the Republic of Serbia, with which reasons, with which intentions and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be fully protected. You know, four years are long. Imagine that in no new idea, we should have thought for these four years how much this ruling set is in power. Here, there are very close elections, so among other things the citizens of the Republic will say what they think, among other things, about the idea of introducing so-called. ‘Little Shengena’. It's more of a risk before the election to talk about it if someone thinks it's something negative than talking about it four years ago. I'm not someone who's too happy that the Brussels Agreement was signed, but the fact that the Brussels Agreement allowed our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, in occupied territory, to live on temporarily occupied territory as peacefully and safely as possible. As for buying or trading, believe me, if I had the choice to buy products from Albania rather than from Croatia, and by 2012, those who were in power not only imported everything and everything from Croatia but allowed many Croatian firms to put their paws on the food industry in the Republic of Serbia. Is this the answer to that question? Well, maybe it is. Is this the answer to that problem? Well, maybe it is, we'll see how it works. Of course, I'm not blindly in love, but I'm not in love with the EU at all, but I remember a good time waiting for a passport visa for days to travel abroad. Some here may seem to have been privileged, getting visas across the line, without waiting in long lines, without filling out forms, or not traveling anywhere, so they don't even know what it looks like and what a burden it was for Serbian citizens. I also love Russia, but I don't want to say, in any case, that I'm more Russian than the Russians themselves, regardless of my gauges. If no one in Russia is commenting on the Republic of Serbia because it co-operates with all its environments with which it can co-operate, and even with the EU, it is on the contrary that Serbia has good co-operation. I really don't understand why it should bother one of us. That Russia, China, it bothers someone else, so I'm sure they'd make it very clear. I am very pleased to be part of the ruling set, which has not delivered to the Hague tribunal by letter and number since 2012, even with all the pressures, of course unfounded, purely politically motivated when the extradition of Mr Vojislav Seselj was sought, when it was required to be delivered to them by other members of the SRS, of course I am absolutely against it and I am sure that this authority will never and at no cost do so. To be different, the Criminal Code, which we have adopted here in this House, we would say that the UN tribunal's decisions, these monsters, are not binding on anyone in the Republic of Serbia, on any basis. The International Criminal Court in The Hague, a permanent court established by the UN. Yeah, but this monster doesn't. Therefore, my dear colleagues, gentlemen, friends and comrades, if any choice of "little Schengen" I am sure that "little Schengen" is better than the great Cheveningen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71855	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Now the word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71856	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, at the end of today's discussion, we see that we have heard much from the past in the debate. Everything the past has carried with it, and obviously carries in the future, the views of certain political representatives who speak about whether we should bow to the East or to the West of the SNS headed by our President, Alexander Vukic, has chosen to represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia alone and to maintain good bilateral relations with both the countries of the East and the Western countries, and because of that it is somewhere and recognised as a stable partner, especially when it comes to the economy, and this is what these agreements that are on the agenda today, that we think about the future and in the interests of our citizens, say agreements concerning both scientific and entrepreneurship, which is the goal of our educated people and those who are engaged in science being able to implement directly in the business of their work. On the other hand, energy-related projects are very important from the daily interest of citizens living in the city of Belgrade, by actually connecting Obrenovac and the new Belgrade heat, thus reducing air pollution in the capital and achieving certain and ecological standards. Then, the part relating to the agreements that we have on the agenda today is the recognition of qualified services of particular importance, which is essentially the mutual recognition of countries within the "mini Schengen" that we can function in the best possible way when it comes to electronic services, electronic signature, stamp, document verification, that simply the companies that exist in these three countries can work uninterruptedly. What we have advocated is that Serbia is truly within its economy to live up to and operate in this way our entrepreneurship, to promote these measures, we are now crossing Serbia's borders and we are also working with countries in the region in a highly sophisticated way. And finally, we have free trade agreements with the Euro-Asian Union covering five countries, of which we already have bilateral agreements with three, but now we are talking about the Euro-Asian Union. Today we have had the opportunity to hear from all the actors here in parliament and party representatives, as they see that agreement. What we can all conclude together to agree that it's a good thing this Agreement is at ratification here in the Assembly today. Is it necessary to further define yourself to become exclusively an associate, i.e. partner with the Union alone, and to reject everyone else, as some thinks, that we must co-operate with EU countries, because we have over 65% of the trade exchange with EU countries, but that we must, or we must cooperate well not only on the basis of the historical good relations of the countries that are members of the Eurasian Union, but because we really have the conditions to improve such co-operation and that we must, and that we can increase this percentage of 7%, which we can increase on an annual basis. What it will look like in the future, given that we are in a position to become a full member of the EU, when it will be, we cannot know at this time, but what we do know is that we are co-operating with both the EU and the members of the Eurasian Union. And, finally, the agreement that shows full co-operation with the Central European countries -- in fact, the CEFTI Agreement, free trade, is what we saw as increased quotas, that this Protocol 6 was practically voted in the CEFTE session held in Tirana in December of last year, and that means that CEFTE members supported practically this increase, i.e. liberalisation of relations in terms of co-operation with Serbia. So, all of these agreements show one recognition to Serbia for the results achieved in the economy and for the hand of support that in the future we are really going towards high growth rates when it comes to economic development of the Republic of Serbia, that those rates that we have achieved so far are some steps that we should go further and that simply with such an increase in trade in the area of tourism, in the area of telecommunications, IT services, which CEFTA recognized in ourselves is a fundamentally good indicator of where Serbia is going, and that there is no such thing as, there would be neither what we are constantly talking about in SNS, which is that we have results, that Serbian citizens will be able to choose in Serbia those who are making results and those who want to return to the past and who have nothing to show other than hate, apart from speech, not only hate, but violence and who have become everyday in this society. We are trying to represent decent Serbia, to treat our citizens this way and with full responsibility to lead both foreign and domestic policies. That is why we believe that these agreements and today's laws and proposals for ratification will really support everything that we have achieved as a country so far since 2012. In voting day, we'll support this whole set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71857	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The word has a finance minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71858	Thank you very much. Dear Members, I want to thank you for your constructive debate. These laws that are before you today are very important to us, new money, more money for education, for the Science Fund, a warm-distribution that is a very important project for the entire heating system in the city of Belgrade and all that is related to "mini Schengen". For me, this initiative is also very important for the government of the Republic of Serbia, opening up the possibility of a more free flow of both people and goods and capital. So another additional impulse of our country's economic development, to speed up, to improve the quality of life and living standards. After all, it is seen by increasing wages and pensions from year to year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-20-0.u71859	I would've given it, of course, if there was a basis. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you to all the MPs. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the motions of the law at issue. The 3rd to 7th agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
