ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know, this MP club, after the chairman and with the help of the secretary, had to explain to me the name of the parliamentary club that submitted these amendments, but I simply thought it would attend today's session, which doesn't change the situation. I'll talk about these amendments, because I feel the need to say something. So, specifically when it comes to an amendment submitted to Article 2. The bill requires that the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government be called the Ministry of State Administration, local and minority self-government. What are minority self-governments? That's a big question. Therefore, minority self-government is required to be regulated by the laws on national councils of national minorities to be placed in the name of this ministry. The truth is that so far the ministry has led, how, it's been defined by law. I have drawn this very precisely from the law, the registers of national councils, special electoral lists for the selection of national councils of national minorities, but now a special ministry is formed in whose jurisdiction all issues related to the position and rights of national minorities, which is the Ministry of Human, Minority and Social Dialogue. So it does not have to or make sense to change the name of this ministry, since we have a newly formed ministry that we have already talked about during the discussion of the ministries and I fully agree with the proposing representative that this amendment should be rejected. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that Serbia is also in line with its laws and falls within the order of states, in fact with the greatest scope and content of protection of minority rights and not only in the region, but when it comes to Europe. Minorities in Serbia, by law, have the right to education in their language on the cost of the state, on their national councils that care about the cultural identity of minorities, whose competences are governed by the National Councils Act, national minorities. These tips are chosen directly, which is also organised and financed by the state. Minorities have the right to use their language officially, to exercise their rights to state authorities, and in all areas where more than 15% of national minorities live, the minority language is in equal use. Then, the electoral process provided for the participation of the parties of national minorities in both local and parliamentary elections thanks to whom, and the honest colleagues who submitted this amendment, you also participated from minority parties today. In doing so, there is no threshold for national minorities that exists for us political parties of once five, now three percent, but there is a natural threshold, i.e. enough to win as many mandates as it is worth one mandate. For the rest of us, that rule doesn't apply. That's, as I would say, positive discrimination. I would not call it "discrimination", on the contrary, it is the privilege of national minorities in Serbia. What more should be provided, the question being asked? Minorities have education in their language from preschool to university, however, some minorities remain dissatisfied. Also, the applicant of the amendment speaks of the newly formed Ministry of Village Care being joined by the Ministry of Family Care and Demography. We have spoken of the importance of forming these two ministries, and I believe that this amendment should not be accepted, because it is precisely this bill that wants to give an accent on demographics, a family, to take care of the village. These are two separate social issues, and they have no logic and no connection to unification. On the contrary, this government wants to fully strengthen strategic measures to combat the "white plague" and this is also recognised during the formation of the previous government of the Republic of Serbia. Population policy, family care must include both rural and urban families, working mothers, farming mothers. The stimulative measures of population policy must also cover everything. "The white plague is a problem and urban, as I said, both rural environments and a birth-enhancing strategy adopted and adopted by the previous government contains a number of population measures and covers different areas in which birth policy must be stimulated, the value and importance of the family for healthy society and foresee economic support measures for families and young couples. In addition, support for birth applies both to urban and rural areas. On the other hand, the issue of the Serbian village has been worth special attention for decades and we discussed this during the discussion of the Ministry Law. Speaking of amendments submitted to Article 2 I'd like to make a few findings. Speaking of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, as far as I know, and there are colleagues coming from these environments, from 2016 to 2020, the presidents of the Municipality of Sjenica and the presidents of the Tutin municipality were just representatives of national minorities. Correct me if I'm wrong. Now, the question arises, were these two municipalities in some unprivileged situation versus other local self-government in Serbia? I'll just get some information to tell you who's speaking in favor of the finding that's not the case. In particular, Sjenica in 2019 receives 10.5 million dinars from the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government for the investment building maintenance project. In 2020, four million and 300,000 dinars of the project "Senica open heart", Tutin 2018, 12.5 million dinars for the project of building an administrative building of the Tutin municipality, and in 2020, 14 million for the project of building an administrative building. After the 2020 elections in the municipality of Tutin, the president of the municipality is again a representative of the national minority, with the support of the SNS coalition partner, and then they don't mind the SNS, and then they can be very cooperative. So, what's the point here? It all depends on the aspect of what kind of political position you're talking about, whether you're the government or you're the opposition. Don't tell me you don't care about the government. I don't know where Mr. Krsto Janjušević is, I hope he's in the O.R. or he'll join us, or counterpart Muamer Zukorlic, so if I'm wrong, let them say it's different in the follow-up session. I will set an example of the Senate and the way in which those who submit this amendment today wanted to take over local power beyond the will of the citizens. I can't call it anything but political trade. On the other hand, he says -- Albanian representatives are talking to the president of the Republic, which is completely normal, natural and logical. As a serious, responsible statesman, the president of the Republic is talking to representatives of the Albanian national minority. Albanian representatives insist on being integrated into state authorities and being integrated into our system. The president, again, as a serious and responsible statesman, has made a positive statement about it and says there is no problem, that he will think about it, and then the next day they go to Albania and tell them, they form a government without 42% of Serbs. I'll remind you, in the 1990s, 65% of Serbs lived in this local self-government. Four Albanian parties agreed to power in Bujanovac, without the participation of Serbian parties, so the coalition gathered around the SNS, which won 10 seats, the SPS, which won three council members, remained in opposition. One of the fellow MPs says - the state should not interfere with party coalitions in multinational environments, in order to avoid tensions, but rather engage in solving their problems. Well, I don't see any way for the president of the state, state and government to get involved in these issues, but I can see that they interfere themselves and try to reach the authorities in certain local self-government through political trade. I say once again, I think the motionary's representative is absolutely right when he says that this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u204	Thank you. Meanwhile, Proposer Enis Imamovic arrived.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true, in the meantime, I arrived and I wondered for a moment what point of the agenda is currently current, given that the previous speaker spoke about everything, except for the amendment to Article 2 that we have submitted. I heard that he initially called on that amendment, and then he talked about everything and I'm sorry that you, as chairman, allowed him to get off the subject of the agenda in this way. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 2, among other things, suggests that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government should be left with jurisdiction over keeping the register of national councils, as well as the conduct of a special electoral list for the election of national councils of national minorities. So, accordingly, we suggested that this ministry be called the Ministry of State Administration, local and minority self-government, which is logical by definition. Since a colleague obviously does not know well the Law on National Minorities and National Councils of National Minorities, according to the definition of national councils of national minorities are established for business and the exercise of the right to self-government of members of national minorities in the fields of culture, education, communication and official use of languages and letters. There are 22 national councils in the Republic of Serbia, which are formed on the principle as bodies, the highest representative bodies of people living in the Republic of Serbia, and those 22 national councils represent almost a third of the country's citizens. The elections held for national councils of national minorities are organised according to the same rules and principles by which elections are organised for MPs or local self-governments and even the circuit assemblies. Therefore, we have opposed the elections for national councils of national minorities in the future being led by another ministry, not the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Also, the conduct of a special electoral list is guided by the same principle as the single polling list that is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. So it was unacceptable for us as proposing this amendment to continue national advice, to continue this trend that has been present in politics for the past seven, eight years, that national councils should be brought down to the level of the association of citizens or NGOs, this is unacceptable, especially because they are elected in direct and direct elections. Also, in this amendment, we have proposed that the Ministry of Agriculture, because of its kinship and description of the work left in this bill, join the Ministry of Family Care, Demography, and we have suggested that the following be added to the village. Therefore, the Ministry of Family Care, under this bill, performs the tasks of the state administration relating to the system of family and legal protection, marriage, population policy, family planning, family and children, improving the development of demographic policy, the quality of life and the extension of life, reproductive health, internal migration, the production of national documents and the preparation of campaigns related to demographic policy, as well as other tasks. The Ministry of Agriculture, under this bill, performs the tasks of the state administration and related professional affairs relating to strategic view of the position of the village and the rural population, proposing measures and activities to improve living and working conditions in the country, fostering the traditional lifestyle in the country, in order to preserve the cultural and historical content of rural areas and other tasks by a certain law. Now, someone explain to me on what principle these two ministries are different, and how is it that the Ministry of Demography can't handle and take care of the village, especially because of the jobs that are proposed here? This way, not only will we save budget funds for the formation of a new ministry, but we will also work on a more efficient and systematic development of the conditions in which our citizens live, both in urban, municipal and rural areas. So this is more than a meaningful amendment. I am sorry that the promoter did not see good intentions and the desire to advance this law to these amendments, but that does not mean that we should condemn to the knife anyone who dares to propose an amendment in this Assembly and that, in accordance with that, we should go as far as anyone can think of talking, as did the previous speaker. I am sorry to repeat, again, that you have allowed the presidency to come out of the agenda theme, and on the agenda is the amendment that we have proposed, not the local coalition in the middle of Sandzak. Of course we will also talk about it and we can answer it, but we will talk about it in a serious way and in the places where it should be spoken, when it is on the agenda, and not the way the previous speaker did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u206	As mentioned, Mr. Milicevic asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u207	Dear President, I am sorry that the esteemed colleague was not at the beginning of the session, the meeting leaves at ten, and I spoke very precisely and clearly to the amendment, very precise and clear about the law, even quoted certain members of the law concerning national minorities. Neither is this amendment meaningful, nor is this amendment justified and, in our opinion, I have presented very precise and clear reasons why we believe that this amendment should not be accepted. I understand the need of a colleague to deal with insinuations and to try to create some kind of atmosphere in parliament to talk about everything, not the agenda. On the contrary, what I was talking about is the agenda. I've been talking about the amendment, I've done a certain dissection, I've given you some data, and when we talk about national council elections, I'm going to give you some more information. You know, the short-speaking leader called Serbia a stepmom by 2000, and after the 2000 elections, he called Serbia our country. Speaking of elections for national councils, he says, after winning the elections for Bosniak national councils, it was enough to raise one Hague statement that Serbia is a fascist form. Now you correct me if I make mistakes, again I say, and advertising the victory of my list for the Bosniak national council has told him that he is satisfied that he will win with more political options, there is no fascist formation of the Serbian state and told Belgrade that his takeover job has failed and that it remains Bosniak.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u208	Mr. Milicevic, it's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u209	Can I have another sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u210	No way. I have to apply the Rules of Procedure. The word has Enis Imamovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. In the same tone, counterpart Milicevic continued to turn off the topic. So, the statement he quoted, he quoted from the media, which is everything but the media and everything but professional. So the statement he quoted was made up, made up in Belgrade, not said after the elections for the national council, was not said in any situation. Therefore, it is a mere fiction, but counterpart Milicevic continues, as did last week, when he sees the name of Sulejman Ugljanin in this parliament, his statements continue to appear. I hope he doesn't see Sulaiman Ugljanin in another session. Sulejman Ugljanin said we won the fascist regime and we beat that Serbian state that the regime and fascist regimes call Serbia's state of Serbia, where there is no room for others and otherwise. So, he didn't call Serbia, it's absolutely some kind of spin of some kind of call to journalists that you're using today, a fascist creation, but what the fascist regimes make of Serbia and this country today. That's the statement he made, and therefore I don't see the reason, and about what he was saying, I hope that we will press charges, so that he can prove in court these claims he's now made at the expense of Suleiman Ugljanin, him and everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u212	Thank you. Since you mentioned Djorge Milicevic, he is entitled to the replica again. Since I've been an MP for many years, I know how it works. You can mention everyone a hundred times and give them a chance to replicate. I've mentioned each other a hundred times with Chanka so I can replicate. So, I know you, not to say, they're going to jump to MPs and business, so at some point I'm going to close this circle of replicas, not just in this case, but in the future, because we have to cultivate the discussion. I'm glad it's at some level of political culture, but we have to lead Parliament's work by entering into the phases of having a debate, not further bursting because of the deadlines we have. I'll allow another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u213	And maybe another one, Mr. President? (President: No. So far from seeing me as Suleman the carbonite. Believe me, I see far better things than that. I'm not thinking about Sulaiman Ugljanin. For me, the fundamental question here is whether Sulejman Ugljanin said he had called Serbia a stepmom by 2000, and since 2000 he has told Serbia that he is becoming our country. I didn't quote everything else. Everything else was quoted by the media. As far as the lawsuit is concerned, I don't have any problem, you sue as much as you want and who you want, but I'm saying this for one simple reason, because it's you media and what you're trying to create in some way, I don't know how you do it, and I don't know what media you mean, but they've all passed it on. That's the same thing you see in that quasi politician and political elite representative, Dragan Gilas. He sees himself before the government is elected that the government will work badly, so he has given himself the right to comment, although he is an extra-parliamentary party, although he has not yet realized that the boycott has failed and that he can speak only in front of parliament and that he is the perfectist of Serbia's political scene. You know what the point is? The bottom line is, these statements and everything that's going on from that quasi political elite, they're drawing targets at the head of the people who run this country. In particular, the president of the state, so you have a situation like this, when the president of the state shows courage and says, we will fight crime and corruption decisively, and then in some media you have these phenomena, these photos. He says there's another war on the mob. This is a direct drawing of the target, not just to the president of the state, but to what none of us should be using in this room, which is the family and president of the state and of every member of the government, but also to each of us. We have never done so, we have always respected the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u214	Okay, George, don't abuse the situation, the replica is over. I don't know what kind of rules you have here, who caused the replica, who's got the last one, but to avoid further discussion on this subject, we're going to go to the next speaker. The word is Ivana Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u215	Good afternoon. Dear President, honourable citizens and respected fellow Members of Parliament, today I am reporting by amendment to Article 2 and I am particularly pleased that my first speech in the National Assembly is just dedicated to the topic that is very close to me, very close to me because I am someone who has replaced the city for the village, who has moved himself and his job and moved from one urban environment to rural. That's why I know what it means to be a woman in the village, which means to start a job in a rural environment and what it means to become part of the political scene of a local self-government. Something like that when you feel it on your skin, then you realize how much our rural environment is and how important all these people who live in it are and maybe not enough attention is directed towards them. For this reason, I am very pleased that the Ministry Act is just as conceived as it was originally proposed on the list for a very important ministry, which is the Ministry of Village Care. My colleagues, MPs may feel that three million people and more than three million people are living in our rural environments, a small number or perhaps a small group to give her special attention and special care. I think these people need to show what they need. We need to understand what their needs are and how best and poorer we can help them. I think that in the previous period, the policies of Alexander Vukic really contributed to the improvement of rural areas. His dedicated work, his dedication is truly seen in all aspects of our society, and it is enough to mention only that in the municipality where I currently live, the Krupanj Municipality has come as many as 12 times during its presidential term. This commitment, this commitment, this struggle and work are just visible in the works, and these are really advanced infrastructures, these are new roads, local roads, it's the opening of factories and, of course, it's the opening of new jobs. It is something that is truly of great importance and extremely valuable to every citizen living in the rural environment and we must never forget it, because Serbia is not just Belgrade. Serbia is an absolute state that needs to develop evenly, and I would also say that Minister Nedimovic has indeed contributed greatly to the development of rural areas in the previous period, but the village is not exclusively agriculture. In the village you have a comprehensive life and many other aspects of which so far may not have been enough attention, but I am personally very pleased to hope that this aspect will be in focus through the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, I would like to say that this even development and the possibility of not reaching our country's centralization is something that I personally care about. We have a large outflow of the population also from our villages and it is not an accident, it is for the simple reason that living in the country is not easy at all. You need a lot more stuff, you need a lot more stuff, and I'd like us to hear all these citizens and hear what they're up for, what they're fighting for, what they're fighting for, and support them right here in this House. What matters to me as a woman is that I want us to advocate that women in rural areas are much more respected and that their standard of life rises to another scale, to a higher scale. Also, a woman is a pillar of the family, a woman is a pillar of society, a woman is someone who, in these very agricultural households, carries a huge part of the burden, a huge part of the effort on her shoulders. These are women who are very valuable, very intelligent, very capable and sometimes only a small wind in the back is needed to help these women and to improve our rural environment together. Also, I believe that the village is also connected to the economy, the village is also connected to entrepreneurship and that every farmer, every farmer in some way owns a small company where he is creating his own business with his own hands and making his own money for the existence of his family. So it's very important to see what this farmer is, what that citizen of our rural environment needs, and how we can help him in the poorest way in the world. In the end, I'd like to say that I don't think that taking care of the village is something that should be behind the last comma of a long name ministry. I think that this group of people deserves special attention and I think that even though we are fighting here today for this ministry to be separate, it will be necessary for all ministries, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Tourism, to work synchronously to raise our rural environment to a respectable level and to maintain our village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u216	Thank you, Ivana. They told me this was your first show. I congratulate you and invite you to keep in touch. You'll have my priority. The word is Dragan Markovic Palm.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u217	:Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few sentences concerning the amendment submitted by the gentleman as a representative of the national minority and, of course, that everyone has the right to submit an amendment in this House and that he personally considers that some right of his minority is at stake in the part of Serbia where he lives, and we who do not believe that the facts and arguments we say are wrong. First, we need to remember when it comes to the even development of Serbia, it was a programme of the previous government, that it was particularly taken care of in the Raška area and the Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedje and that I am sure that Novi Pazar as a big city has received more than some other cities. That's good, but we can't say now that Sujelman Ugljanin, who got less than 1%, that he's right and that he's been sending militant messages all along, and I know him very well. In 2004, he was elected directly to the New Market mayor's election when I was elected Mayor of Jagodina and we organised a meeting of mayors in Jagodina. I invited him to come and he was particularly surprised. After that, he organized a mayoral meeting in Novi Pazar. He was a very good host and his messages weren't like the messages he's been sending today, and in recent years, or since he's been in power. The people in the Raška district, I got 24,676 votes in the last election, so many of his fellow Americans who voted for him, and what we're going to do for the others. Ladies and gentlemen, both Bosniaks and Albanians and all national minorities in Serbia want to work and live on their work. That's exactly what this country is doing, bringing investors and helping maximum. If this wasn't the 20th century or the 19th century and some politicians were thinking again through militant war messages to return one part of the electoral body and say, "Here we are now a powerful political party in the Raski area, they say Sandzak, it's the Raška area for me. If we look at and who has been mayor of the Raška region and in Novi Pazar in recent years, I must especially commend Rasim Ljajic, who is in some way a policy in the Raška area such as politics in Serbia and for every man in Serbia. Also, the foreign minister, when I say that someone thinks now that the foreign minister has something to do with the Raška area and the south of Serbia, and of course President Aleksandar Vukic has contributed greatly. The arrival of Erdogan in Serbia, or Sarajevo, which sent a message to its compatriots, or, not to its Muslim brothers, not to the Muslim brothers of one who exists as a separatist group, but to Bosniaks and Albanians that a different policy should now be run, a different co-operation, that we can't forget what it was, but we have to move forward. Even someone they went to for advice is now saying that the time has passed, that Serbia is right and that it is not exactly how the big world media has shown it. There are many capable businessmen in the Raška region and in Novi Pazar. Until last year, I arranged for the business to leave. We've been to over 15 countries. It's never happened in a delegation that there's not one of the New Market businessmen. Two, three businessmen have always been in the delegation. Especially when I took them to San Petersburg, they did a big job there. I don't know what that company was called back then, but here, I got it now, sent me my cabinet, Edin Emrovic from Novi Pazar, was with Meha Mahmutovic in Russia, in San Petersburg, in Vienna, Enes Bisevic. This Bisect I know, he's one of the largest Mercedes vehicle distributors, one very successful and capable businessman and employs a large number of workers. Not to repeat now all those names of the people we ran back then. It is these people and citizens of the Raska region and the south of Serbia, Albanians and Bosniaks who are not in favour of militant messages and that we are coming back for a while, that we hate each other. Novi Pazar had on Tuesdays the largest market in the Balkans where they went to the market in Novi Pazar from all over Serbia. There is no more, but Novi Pazar is a city that is always respected by the Serbian authorities. I especially want to send a message to Suleyman Ugljanin once more that he can't contribute to such messages. Neither will he get more votes in the next election, nor will he benefit from it. To stop more politicians of national minorities arguing national minorities with the majority Serb people, because all rights that have national minorities and enjoy Serbia have never been criticised by any international community. Never. When it comes to Bujanovac, Preshevo and Medvedja, many fams there have been made, many roads, many asphalts. It's also a highway. It's not the same for the development of a community when you have a highway and you don't have one. First he asks you how far away you are from the airport, if you have a highway, then he comes to your town to see what you're offering him, when it comes to building a factory, etc. If we look at Hungarians who are the majority national minority in Vojvodina, how are the Hungarians satisfied, how are those other nations living in Vojvodina all satisfied, and these are not here? For known reasons, they're not satisfied. But here's the clinic being made in Novi Pazar, and Novi Pazar has become a university center for children from the Raška region, Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutina, to have their children go to that university. And that's where Serbia helps. So, ladies and gentlemen, the politicians of national minorities, or the parties of national minorities, should only be realistic and their demands should not be directed at how, I don't know, Serbia is a stepmother towards you. I remember when we were in Novi Pazar that Suleiman Ugljanin, us forty-something mayors, took us to the Sopocan monastery, which surprised us all. What changes, Suljo, in your head at once? He told us about the frescoes and the monastery, etc. I'm still in my mind and I remember that event when we were at his place in New Market, that he was an extremely good host. Whether one of the presidents of the national smaller parties will be in power or not, Alexander Vukic, Ivica Dacic, or I don't know who, the citizens and his compatriots decide whether to trust him or someone else. So, Sulljo, go back to normal, work with Serbia and that Serbia can't be your mother for five years, or seven years, and then after your stepmother, and later a fascist creation. You're wrong. The people of the Raška area or Sandzak, as you call the Raška area, want to live from their work, to work, to export what they produce, that when delegations come, as it happens, it is not only Belgrade, that it is led to Novi Pazar, to see how Bosnian citizens live in Novi Pazar, Tutin and Sjenica. I have many friends of Bosniaks, and I have many friends of Albanians in southern Serbia. No one thinks them as Suleyman the carbonite thinks. Not that it will politically fail, but it creates an ugly picture of some Serbs in the European Parliament and in some other institutions where it decides on Serbian citizens. The Raška area, Bosniaks and Albanians are citizens of Serbia and respect what is called the Constitution in this country, if something does not suit them, to state it, but in a civilized way, and I am sure that if they are right, that error if there is one will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u218	Thank you. I would ask that, since I assume Mr. Imamovic answered the line, right? Enis Imamovic: Yes. All right. I would just like to ask you, since we have committee meetings, Mr. Imamovic, if Milisav Vujadinović can first, to arrive at the session of the committee starting at 11.00 hours. (Enis Imamovic: I answered earlier to replicate. I'll give you my word after Mr. Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry about this, because the board starts in a few minutes, so I'm gonna take a chance, just a few things about the amendment. In fact, at the beginning, I would like to say immediately that we in the SNS suggest that the amendment be rejected, primarily for those reasons which are mentioned in the very explanation of the opinion of the legislator himself. If you are entering the essence of all this, I think it is quite clear that protecting minority rights in Serbia is something that can serve as an example of many developed democracies both in Europe and in the world. In fact, the role of the national councils of national minorities in Serbia is of great importance and if our Serb community in some other environments in which it lives, especially in the region, enjoys such a degree of protection, we would probably lose sight of this issue and the topic for talking to our neighbours, probably things in the region and in economic and political terms would go much better, which would be for the benefit of all of us who live here. Do we all feel the same way? Of course not, and there's always a majority and minority opinion. I'm sure the people of Novi Pazar, in Raska, Sandzak, call it whatever you want, share this opinion with the majority of Serbia, and where you'll better confirm that in the last elections in Novi Pazar, the SNS with its partners, which I say, is an indigenous source of 20,506 votes. The proposing party, of course, cannot all think the same, the party proposing this amendment won, watch out, two and a half times less, 8.208 votes. In 2017, Alexander Vukic, as a candidate for Serbia's president in Rasko, won over 70% of the votes, was not different. Believe it or not, it is probably one of the areas in which Aleksandar Vukic, as a candidate for president, achieved the best result in relation to the whole of Serbia. That says enough whether this opinion is shared with us by people in Raska and Pazar. Of course, there's one part of the people, minority, who thinks vice versa and thinks a lot alike with the amendment promoter. That's what it's about, let me say, some essential things, and if I were to talk about some other reasons, there's one moral question being asked, do you even believe me, I asked myself, do we even need to discuss the amendment when the amendment promoter was late in the beginning, and you've seen it well, I was late for the debate on this amendment at first. On the other hand, the very essence of the amendment is the struggle for political staying and survival and the daily political points of Sulje Ugljaninina above all else, and I'll tell you something in favor of that, because it's actually just that, and absolutely that. In fact, as you said, a constitutional session of the Diaspora Committee begins in a few moments. The other day, my esteemed colleague Muamer Bačevac, who comes from Novi Pazar, spoke of the importance of the diaspora, which comes from that area, probably if we look at the percentage diaspora that comes from that area, perhaps the largest part, in the area of the diaspora. We also heard about the importance of this diaspora, particularly in Western Europe, especially in Germany, about the importance of this diaspora primarily in the construction industry, but also about the links of this same diaspora with the capital of Serbia, with Belgrade and with our society in general. Watch only nonses and one phenomenon, Sulejman Ugljanin's party refused to participate in the work of the Diaspora Committee. So much for how important the foreigners of Suleiman Ugljanin's people in the Raška area, or in Sandzak, are about his concern for those citizens. All that matters is his mere political survival. I think the people of Raska have seen it. We hope that, when it comes to this committee, finally, to say, that part of the political spectrum will bring minds and take part in the Diaspora Committee, because it is in the best interest of people living outside the Republic of Serbia, especially those who live in Western Europe, Germany, to do serious jobs and who represent a serious segment of our society, and who are very, very important, both for the very area from which they come, but believe us, both for our country and for our society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u220	Thank you. I just want to draw your attention that you have to keep in mind that from where I'm sitting here, I have no idea if any of you are answering for a word based on replication. It's probably a lack of this system, apropo of what Mr. Djukanovic just said, that whoever is reporting probably has a priority over someone else who answered. So, please bear in mind that someone will not deliberately give a word to anyone, but here I understood that Mr. Imamovic answered the line and that's why I asked him to step down to the previous speaker, and now I'm giving him my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like you to explain to me how in two minutes I can replicate a fellow SNS officer who spoke for six minutes, a colleague of Dragan Markovic who spoke for ten minutes and another SNS colleague who spoke for seven minutes? How am I supposed to respond to everything they've said here in two minutes? So, our participation, just a little bit quieter, please, in these elections, since the president won't silence you, I'll try. Our participation in these elections as a minority party was supposed to give Sandzak citizens the choice. Although we knew the conditions in Sandzak when it comes to electoral conditions, not only in Sandzak but throughout Serbia, we decided to participate as a minority party and enter parliament to represent Bosniaks and all Sandzak citizens here. That in what conditions we held the election and what the results of such conditions ended up being, I would be ashamed to say. I'd be ashamed to be proud of it. Here, colleagues pride themselves on the electoral conditions that were absolutely under control of the regime, in which all state authorities and public and public and secret participated, and in various ways exerted pressure, blackmail, threats to Sandzak citizens, to boast of these results as he defeated a minority party. Obviously, it was the only goal and ultimate goal of participating in these elections. People's MPs are getting that time's up. Time, never mind time, whether it makes sense to participate in such a political life, with such an experience on a minority party without being able to answer one to one. I didn't even ask you to extend my right to a replica, I asked for two minutes after every speaker who mentioned my name here, the name of the party and the name of the president of my party.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u222	Thank you. I just want to add that I certainly didn't write this Rules of Procedure, and it defines exactly how much time it is for replication. Also, you can use the time provided for your MP group, not just through the replica. So that's what you should be thinking about when you're on the next call. The next MP is Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u223	Thank you, Chairman. It is very interesting that electoral conditions are complained about by those who are in some local self-government authorities, who directly conduct elections and who have even the majority in election commissions and election committees. It's not just a case of Sjanica, Tutina, etc., you have in Capca. It's an amazing, truly amazing example where a man loses by 12 or 13 thousand votes, but he says he had terrible conditions, and he forms the city's electoral commission, has a majority on the city's electoral commission and on all election boards. That's how you do it, you whiny, cryin'. Their only problem is the fundamental problem of the name and name - Aleksandar Vucic. That if they could take a stand in some next election, I think they would achieve their goal. That's why they're looking for a so-called. separation of choices. Why am I talking about this? We're talking about human and minority rights here. I am an absolutely great supporter of national minorities to give as much as possible. I want us here to develop absolute multiculturalism, multiethnicity, pluralism in political opinion, dialogue, it's good to open a ministry that is related to dialogue, but you know, sometimes the question is asked – and who is offering us dialogue? Look at what's going on, say, with Gordana Komic, who was a symbol of democracy when she denied us all a word, took away the opportunity to speak, abused even the Rules of Procedure from that place where you sit. She was then the sun of democracy, the best thing we could have, because she was denying us. Now that the woman has not changed her political opinion, but has seen that her political comrades have absolutely strayed, completely missed their politics, she is now a creep, a traitor, trash, garbage. You can read it all on individual portals, especially when you release those comments, so, like, free citizens are thinking and their administrators are writing comments under all this news. See, that's something that's scary. That's the kind of person we should be talking to. It's outrageous for only one reason – those people, if they were, God forbid, they'd shoot people in the street. They advocate the principles of "Antife", which today is harassing the world and harassing the entire population and only if you're not accidentally in their winkle, or if you don't think like they think, you'll be shot, you'll be embarrassed, your family will survive everything and everything. If you have a majority, it doesn't matter. Most people don't see each other anymore. It's important whether you have 2% or 3% media logistics, tycoon. Look what's going on in Montenegro. There's a scary interest in tycoon running the Podgorje News. It's a bunch of criminals out there who want to put together the Montenegrin government, burning Dukljani of Milo Djukanovic, three times worse. They are supported here by the media machinery of Dragan Gilas with everything Mladjan Djordjevic. Who do they spit on? Spitting on Andrija Mandic, on the Democratic front, because they don't want Serbs in power, because these Serbs would be holding them back, those Serbs would say -- you can't harass us anymore, but the point is, of course, to support the tycoon interest of criminals from Podgorica's "News". That's what they do today in Serbia. Criminals holding the media are telling you about political dialogue, the same ones that drew the target to the president of the state. Look at what it's like with the president's family! That's terrible! You draw his son that he's a criminal and you put him on that ice screen in the studio, he discusses crime and mob, and then you draw the son of the president of the state that he's a criminal. Why? Well, that, God forbid, one day when some change of government occurred, it would be a legitimate target. You know, if you mark someone as a criminal, he's a legitimate target. Tomorrow he falls out of power, you can kill him on the street, and it doesn't matter. And then all this will be an excuse, so why not, We have removed the evildoer. They offer you social dialogue and they condition you, so they want to talk to that, they don't want to talk to that. You have to meet them all the time. Well, you see, I'm an absolute opponent of compromise with such people. If you want to talk, you're invited. Here, and the ministries are open, we don't mind. If you want to blackmail society here and use your media machine to harass us all here, you won't have an absolute partner in the conversation. After all, we represent the majority people here. We've got support for citizens to choose from. I'll give you my example. I don't know why, because I've been elected president of the Justice Committee. I guess they're afraid that their judges and prosecutors who kept getting into the system, they might have been afraid that it wouldn't go on like that. And, of course, there's an instant story – it's a conflict of interest, it's blackmailing, I don't know what it's going to do, etc., etc. And it didn't matter when Bosko Ristic was president, as was the lawyer, the chairman of the Assembly's Justice Committee and also a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Well, not only that, but then he brought his best man to be in front of a lawyer there. And I guess that was great, great, then it wasn't a conflict of interest, that's when it was all at will. You see, as long as there's such a hypocritical campaign going on, we're going to have people standing up to it. We're not afraid of them. They can threaten to come here a hundred times in front of the Parliament to burn us, hang us, insult us to the will, we'll beat them in the election. And the fact that they're going to do something with violence, that they're going to give us a look at how they're going to get inside, and they're going to threaten us with these social networks to cut our hair, how they're going to pour tar, how they're going to hang us in front of the Assembly, etc., just let them try. I can't wait to see them so brave. Whoever these negatives appear to be to start fighting, they're going to defend that negative phenomenon. If Vucic declares a fight against criminals and the mafia, they jump over their portals to defend those same criminals and that same mafia. And then you ask yourselves, what is this all about? Whatever you do, they'll find something negative. Why? Because they have no idea. And, of course, the point is to embarrass someone, insult them, spit them out. I guess their programming definition is spit on the Wolf. And if you ask them, well, in order for you to resolve the issue of agriculture, would you once build, watch out, here they tell you about the roads, the building of infrastructure, those who did not mend the streets of Belgrade during their rule? Two blocks didn't patch up! Now they tell you about how infrastructure should be built. Then you just ask yourself, are these people normal? Do they really think that citizens have short minds here? Offer them elections, they say they don't want to go to elections, they want to be separated, they want to go to elections like this. Look, it's the only opposition in the white world that won't go to the election. I guess the opposition can't wait to go to the election, if we're so bad, the worst in the world, dirty, uneducated, screwed up, we haven't read anything, the people aren't gonna read us, so I guess they're gonna beat us in those elections. Because who's going to vote for us the way we are, how they're actually marking us. No, we have fear here, it seems, of us, of how they marked us. That's why when I'm talking about human rights here, it's always about who's putting up with that amendment. If someone's honest and wants to talk about real social dialogue, so can I. But if someone wants to condition this social dialogue, and they want to say who can talk and who can't talk, so who can you run for the election and who can't – get out of this dead end, there's nothing from that story. You won't find a conversation here, and I don't mind, as they announce a boycott for the next election, you're welcome to boycott to your will. I would never go out to meet you, you could boycott from morning till nightfall. You can boycott every day. It's just that there seems to be another problem for them. They are boycotted by the people, and they are deeply aware of it. So I'm going to conclude with this, please, first of all, our membership, our people, don't be afraid of such, threatening with an empty rifle. They're cowards. They've got media, it's not easy to survive that media hack that they're working through their portals on both social networks and all the TVs, but, you know, if they had any argument, they'd use it. When they have to lie, make up, and the funniest thing is when they embarrass you somewhere over that portal or through their contributions, and then they call you and ask if you would comment. Look what the bottom of journalism is. You see, there is no fear, against those determined to fight, against those determined in battle. Of course, it will always be a normal, decent, non-extremist and abnormal Serbia winning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u224	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Rističević. (Enis Imamovic: A Rules of Procedure!) I'm sorry. I repeat again, I have no insight here. (Enis Imamovic: The secretary has insight... Secretary? You mean Elvira? I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure have an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u225	President, when they elected you president of the assembly, they said you had a huge experience and I could agree with that fact and I was glad that you would pass on the experience, but here you have injured Article 106. - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The amendment to Article 2 is on the agenda, which says the name of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government is being changed and the village ministry is being deleted. The previous speaker talked about everything, just not that. I'm sorry that in that case I wasn't in a position and that you didn't give me the right to reply to the only colleague who spoke about the agenda point and to tell her that I'm glad she made up her mind as a young person for a country life and that I'm glad she's proud of it. I would agree with her, I could also agree with her that Serbia is not only Belgrade and that outside Belgrade there are plenty of places to live and where our people live, our citizens. I would remind everyone that in Serbia more than a million citizens live in underdeveloped municipalities and cities, between 40 and 60 populated towns belong to a category of underdeveloped and devastated people. I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to talk to her about it, because she was the only one talking about the agenda point. Afterwards, Dragan Markovic Palma, who invited us to stick to the Constitution, spoke. We also stick to the constitution when we ask that all the problems that Bosniaks face in Serbia solve. They called us to experience Serbia with our stepmother, to experience it with a country where no crimes remain solved, mass crimes committed against Bosniaks. How else can we experience it? And when all the appeals, that these crimes are solved, which we stand here in the Assembly, in the institutions of the system, and when we ask this state to solve these crimes committed against its citizens, you accuse us of unfairly experiencing it as our stepmother.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u226	Thank you. On the subject of the Rules of Procedure, it's the same two minutes. I am aware that the rigid interpretation of this provision would lead to the fact that speaking is always exclusively about what is on the agenda, especially when amendments are about where you are, for example, and you now who have advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure have also done a violation of the Rules of Procedure because you have not talked about it. In view of all this, I will make sure that as far as possible I direct MPs to talk about the agenda, but that it is not in such a way that it is interpreted as being a rigidity now and that is why I did not intervene today, but if you think it is necessary to vote on it when this previous vote is over, I have no objection. He doesn't want to. Next, according to the Rules of Procedure, Milenko Jovanovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u227	According to the Rules of Procedure, item 107, dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. President, with my full respect for the tolerance you show in running the Assembly, I think you had to react to the word that Serbia is any stepmother. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is no one's stepmother, Serbia respects every citizen. The very fact that minority representatives also sit in this home, participate in the government, shows that Serbia respects each citizen equally and that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal both before the law and before the Constitution, so that they are absolutely equal and that they are receiving the same rights. You failed to react, you allowed the MP to further elaborate his thesis on why Serbia is his stepmother. I don't think this home deserves to be heard in any way and that this thesis must be sanctioned either by warning or by taking away words. So, we have to bring things here into the same plane as the Rules of Procedure says, and whether someone is satisfied or not with their status and their support within the national group they belong to, it is indeed a frustration that should not be treated here, because Bosniaks choose their own representatives for this home. And if the Bosniak is vice president of the assembly, I really can't figure out how Serbia can be a stepmother to the Bosniaks? Therefore, I ask you to pay attention to this and to react in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u228	Of course, that's something I was talking about before I was elected, replicating the party's views on whose representative it was. I would therefore ask all MPs in their presentations, except for what they say about their political views, to take care of expressions and attitudes that are directly contrary to both the Constitution and the law and do not force me to apply measures that involve warnings, exclusions, taking away words, etc. Everything in the context of the discussion in a cultural way and a politically correct way can be said, but something that is out and opposite of both the Constitution and the law, I don't think I'm going to allow it in the next period. Do you, Mr. Jovanovic, ask the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has Djordje Milicevic, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 27. At the very beginning, I will say that I do not want the People's Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jovanovic, you're absolutely right when you say the definition of the word frustration, because it is frustration, since we talked a little bit about frustration, about the status you don't have, and unfortunately you want to have within your national minority. But that's not why I answered. I wanted to make a request to you, Mr. President, not to allow the abuse of Article 104 which clearly defines when the MP has a basis for obtaining a replica. The recent MP used the Rules of Procedure and misused the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not specifically pointing out what he meant when he spoke about the violation of the Rules of Procedure himself, but was responding to colleagues and colleagues who spoke before him and talking about how much experience you had and how he expected you to transfer this experience to the work of Parliament, and when we talked about your choice, it seemed to me that he was returning us to the 1990s and inviting you to some wartime talk, how much memory I am serving. Accordingly, I ask you only, it is legitimate for each of us to express its political views, each of us is very well aware of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS parliamentary group will always express its political views, but we will not abuse the Rules of Procedure, but we will use it within the time that belongs to our parliamentary group and to me as president of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u230	Thank you. George, from what I understand, don't ask us to make this clear. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already said once that the degree of democracy in a country is measured by the rights of national minorities they enjoy in that country. Serbia is a democratic country for "ten plus". I also said that every vote of members of the national minority in Serbia is worth 35% more than the vote of a Serb. It is a positive discrimination that even goes against that "one man - one voice" and Serbia has done so. Let's see, when this is so complained by individuals whose leaders lost the ministerial chair and immediately declared the loss of the ministerial armchair a fascism, if someone loses a chair, he immediately says that in that country where he lost his chair, there is a fascism government, that they are being persecuted by national minorities, etc. While sitting attached to the chair, while the car, secretary, money and budget are available then there is no fascism in Serbia, but the moment the chair is lost and the rights of national minorities are increased, political rights increase by 35% compared to members of the majority, the kabadiah said that Serbia is ruled by fascism. Let's see which of these national rights and whether this kind of ministry exists in the former Yugoslav republics. I'm going to name an advanced country, allegedly, called Slovenia. The Serbs in Slovenia have an estimated 2% or 40,000 per list. Half of them seem to have no right to sign up as a Slovenian citizen. In Slovenia there are only, it seems to me, Mr Martinovic, two national minorities, Hungarians, Italians, perhaps, and perhaps I am wrong or Austrians and mostly even Roma rights, not wanting to offend Roma are greater than the rights of Serbs who do not have the status of a national minority. Even in Montenegro, Serbs have no status whatsoever. Let's see what rights they have, like the Serbs in that Slovenia? Four thousand, thirty-three Slovenians are entitled to the national council of national minorities -- the right to education, culture, information and so on, what national councils should do. The fact that some national minorities, i.e. national minorities, have slightly misused this right and turned national councils into political authorities, and they want something territorial to accomplish that is another problem. But national councils exist, the Slovenians have it with 4,033 Slovenians and 0.07% of the population. Serbs in Slovenia do not have this right, and if they have 30 times as many as they are, and numerically, regardless of what Slovenia is far smaller, five times more. Well, now let's see these European democratic Slovenias, how much they value national minorities, and how much they call "fascist Serbia" they treat. Compare that and then tell me who the fascist is, if there's fascism. Of course, that I do not accuse Slovenia of fascism, but let's say, Tanja Fajon can ask, I have done it many times, and I will ask her again – what about the rights of Serbs in Slovenia, with rights to education, language and so on, what about rights, even if they were to enroll as a Slovenian citizen. Serbia is ahead of the former Yugoslavia in terms of national minorities. Let's see if those rights that members of national minorities have in Serbia, imagine now in Bosnia and Herzegovina the vote of a Serb is worth 35% more than the vote of Bosniaks. I think there would be a revolution there, but I welcome Serbia's appreciation that national minorities in parliament should be more represented and that their votes are more valid, although the question is whether it can be achieved under the Constitution, is the principle of one man - one vote being violated. But I don't mind that either. Serbia doesn't mind. No one should be ashamed of himself in Serbia because he is not a Serb. But the times have passed when a Serb should be ashamed because he is a Serb, and those times have passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u232	Djordje Milicevic reported on the occasion, not the replicas and the Rules of Procedure, but the amendments. Now I'm going to ask, and I want this specifically to, I'm sorry, George, just before I do, I want to say that we're scheduled today, and I'm, as president of the Assembly, scheduled meetings of all committees. This means that today all the committees, all the other committees, will be established, so that the working bodies of the National Assembly will not be in different days, we agreed to do it all in one day. Also, I want to tell you that according to what I said on Saturday from 14:00 to 15.00 hours is a break and to announce that we will be working in case of need after 18 hours today. There's no need to wait until later, I'm telling you right now that you can plan your activities. Now I would like to, as I have announced, that all vice presidents will participate in the work, in the presidency. I'd like to ask that Elvira Kovac be chaired now. I don't know if it's been until now, maybe it's after a long time and whether it's ever been that it's a national minority representative, and that's exactly what Mr. Imamovic was saying earlier, he's going to chair the work of the National Assembly. There were former vice presidents and minority order, but they did not chair the assembly. This is the best indicator we want to present to Serbia, as a country of all citizens regardless of nationality, and of course I look forward to Mr Zukorlic as well. Now I give my word to Mr. Djordj Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u233	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we are talking about national minorities, here is the picture we see at the chair table, or the presidency, very clearly how Serbia has a relationship with national minorities and how we have a relationship here in parliament with representatives of national minorities. Here, someone who is a representative of the national minorities is currently chaired, and during the next day or this day, I assume Mr Zukorlic, who is also a representative of the national minorities, will be chaired. I want to say that Mr. Risticevic is absolutely right when he says that Serbia is ahead of all other countries in respect of the rights of national minorities and that Serbia is a symbol of new values. Since we could have heard other findings during this debate, let me, in the time that belongs to the parliamentary group, give and declare and the views of our parliamentary group, a view of the stated findings. Mr. Jovanovic, don't get angry this isn't mine, or what I'm about to say isn't mine, I'm just quoting what the media has passed on. It says this - Serbia is a magician until 2000, and it becomes our country after 2000. And this is said by someone who was the bearer of a single electoral list, and was elected MP in the Serbian Parliament, so in 2008, the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was appointed minister without portfolios, and in his jurisdiction was also the Office for Sustainable Development and underdeveloped areas. Well, this function was performed by 2014 and after the change of government in 2012 for a short time was the minister without portfolios. Four years ago, he advocated the rehabilitation of the Acifa-Ephendi of wartime President Novi Pazar, who was shot in January 1945, and very recognizable by good relations with this so-called. Pristina politicians, among other things, with Bejit Pacolli. I don't mind, but it says something about a relationship there, and I won't mention his name anymore, there's someone who has representatives here in the republican parliament and who says he respects Serbia as his own, as our country. My question is, I quote all the time, this is a reporter's report, I quote all the time, and they tell the journalist -- that during the election for one of these national councils, there could be screams, including the Sanjay Republic and the Sanjay flag lived. I'm just quoting. On the other hand, I can see that here he's trying to get through one thesis that can talk and what he can talk about. All the topics, everything we talked about today and what Mr. Jovanovic talked about and what Mr. Risticevic was talking about, Djukanovic and a colleague who spoke about the amendment. I've said a lot and I'm sorry that one of the speakers didn't, he was probably late, he had more important jobs, so he didn't hear that I quoted the laws and said why I didn't think it was acceptable for the promoter to accept this amendment. I guess that's all respect and that's all in the spirit of political democracy and political tolerance and political culture. Mr. Zukorlic, I'm glad you're here. I just wondered where he was. It means very much to me your presence right now, and I'd like you to come to the MPs' benches, if you think you should, and I'll tell you why. I find it very interesting that someone who has been involved in interparty dialogue with European parliamentarians and who has been very clear through this dialogue could hear what the position of European parliamentarians is when that first part of the inter-party dialogue is over, and that a constructive progress has been made and that we are going towards a democratic spirit and that the largest part of what was the agenda defined during the inter-party dialogue has been realised. Correct me if I'm wrong, there are participants in an interparty dialogue. You and your colleagues are one of the participants. Mr Zukorlic, I find it very interesting that, as it is said here in some way, I would not say terror, but some regime control says - everything has been done under the control of the regime, probably referring to parliamentary and local elections, saying someone who tried past the will of the citizens, after establishing a local government in Sjenica to take power in Sjenica and through the classical form of political trade. You correct me if I'm wrong. During the inter-party dialogue, I was very clear about one of the key issues, because I felt it was important. I told the representatives of the European Parliament - we listened to you, the mandate belongs to the MP. Now we're asking you to tell us, we're not going to have that problem right now, but I'm thinking about perspective, I'm thinking about the future. We have no objection to the term of office, but how do we prevent this mandate from being the subject of political trade in the period ahead of us? Because political trade brings political instability, and political stability is of the utmost importance and importance for Serbia's progress. I didn't get an answer to that question, and it seems to me that very soon after these elections, Mr. Zukorlic, we had the opportunity to see in particular what I wanted to achieve through the question that I asked, and not much less than in the Shadow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u234	Thank you, dear colleague Milicevic. I thank you for your kind words, and I didn't want to interrupt you, but I would ask all the MPs that no matter how wide the interpretation can be, let's get back to the agenda and talk about the agenda. As a representative of the national minority, I am extremely pleased that today, when the debate on these amendments was heard a lot about the political representation of members of the national minority parties, I have the honour of holding this session and I will try to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. After this discussion several MPs asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure and a replica that enabled them Of course, you didn't hurt anyone, but since you spoke directly to the People's MP, the Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Zukorlic, by name and by name. [[Jorge Milicevic: Can't replicate, I didn't mention anyone.]] (Jordje Milicevic: Vice President, yes. ) The word has a People's MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u235	The esteemed chairman, co-workers and fellow MPs, know Serbia-Sandzak citizens how individuals behave when they are on their hairs and how they behave when they are in opposition. Because citizens in Tutin do not have water lines, the most responsible is local government that has not changed there for 20 years. So when we talk about the level of responsibility, we need to be realistic and look at how much I and my party have been in power, what we've been doing out of function, and only then do we advise and salt someone else's brains. It is true, mentioned today by the coalition in Sjenica, that we and our partners from the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia have created a coalition power that individuals have tried by means of extra-legislative means to bring down. We have found a very difficult situation there, and I think that with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all the ministries, we will solve the accumulated problems. As far as Sandzak is concerned, Sandzak is not only Novi Pazar, it is also Prepolje, Pribo, Nova Varoš, Tutin and Sjenica and all citizens living in Sandzak quite hard to live, both Bosniaks and Serbs-Montenegro and Roma. We all have to work together to make both Serbia and Sandzak the best place to live, for all the citizens and citizens who live here. For the sake of truth, I would like to mention that in the previous term, the government has begun to resolve a number of injustices.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u236	Thank you. You've run out of time for the replica. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u237	Thank you, dear colleague, in this case the chairman. Would you please tell me what point we're discussing right now? Is the amendment on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u238	We are currently discussing an amendment to Article 2 with a correction, brought together by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadja Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Adjan Bajrami. I would ask if you have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure to quote the correct member of the Rules of Procedure and explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u239	Of course. At first, I had to hear from you to tell you that you've injured a member of the 106s by which the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. So, we are in the amendment that you have just read, you have proposed that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government be assigned jurisdiction and minority self-government. I have not noticed that the previous speakers have touched the amendments we have proposed in any sentence. Can you hear me, Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u240	I hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u241	Me or the deputy?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u242	I hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u243	Because I'm pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, I have not heard that any of the previous speakers have touched the amendments we have proposed in one word. Here are also mentioned local self-government and local coalitions and electoral conditions. Speaking of elections, it is true, we participated in a dialogue on electoral conditions organised by European Parliamentarians. Here we proposed concrete proposals and among other things, the proposal was for parliamentary elections to be held at the earliest on 6 September. Fellow Members, can you today, who are calling for this dialogue, say exactly what the European Commission and the European Parliamentarians are calling for what they said after the elections on the quality and freedom and democracy of the elections held in the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u244	Thank you. Dear People's Parliament, I would remind you that the violation of the Rules of Procedure is indicated immediately after what you consider a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done. I assume you were referring to the presentation of the distinguished MP, Djordj Milicevic. After that, the previous speaker received a replica because Mr Zukorlic from the same party was mentioned by name and last name. I really know what amendment we're discussing, and I immediately reacted after Mr. Milicevic's address, who has every right to use the time of the parliamentary group he belongs to. Please, if you wish so much to respect the Rules of Procedure, you are not using the same. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I don't think I did? Enis Imamovic: Yes. Yes. All right, we'll do it. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Mirkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u245	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I apologize for starting your presidency with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 107, which speaks of the speaker's duty to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm sorry, but I find the presentation of the previous speaker at least rude. So to throw the chairman, call him and ask him if he listens to you or listens to someone sitting on his right, at least it's inappropriate. Also, that way you treat one lady, you'll all agree here, is inappropriate. What you have said here and you are calling on you constantly not to hear anything, calling or mentioning a colleague, Djordj Milicevic, you must know that it is necessary to hear everything said in this room, but it is a prerequisite for you to sit in that room, first of all. So, you left Thursday before the meeting was over and on Saturday you left as soon as you wrote your report, which was critical only to criticise, and without any substance, you left the session. Also, when you feel the need to go out, you go out without hearing what's being said in the O.R. I'm sorry to have to perform like this, and now it turns out I'm giving you some lessons. What's more, no, I just want to improve the dialogue we're all talking about here. If you weren't aware enough of the position of national minorities and the desire that all of us here together as one big team, a team playing only for Serbia, work together and in the interest of our country and the position where the chairman, who belongs to the national minority, speaks in favour of the fact that Serbian citizens are all the same for SNS representatives, future government and President Aleksandr Vukic. I'm sorry you can't figure that out, but you just want to create a stage for collecting cheap political points from the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u246	Thank you, honourable MP Mirkovic. I'd like to quote Article 107. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, which you have just mentioned, is that at the session of the National Assembly it is not allowed to address the MP directly, but all of this must be done through the chairmanship. I thank you for the apparition, and I know you're a new MP, just to point out that we're not opening new discussions right now and there's no direct communication and thank you for looking out for me. Of course, it's not right how MP Imamovic infiltrated who I'm listening to right now. I would remind all of you that both by law and by the Rules of Procedure, it is the task of the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General to assist the work of the chairman but, thank God, I can listen to the one who speaks and, as he said, whispers or does his job. Did any of the MPs ask for a word in the Rules of Procedure, since it has priority? Yeah. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u247	Honored Chairman, Article 27, Article 104. Article 27, which gives you, of course, the right as in this particular case of the chair of the National Assembly to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and Article 104 speaks specifically when you have the opportunity to obtain a replica. Mr. Marijan Risticevic told me earlier with full right that he did not, you can talk and talk, but here is the essence of whether you want to listen to someone in the right way, as far as I understand you, it is, of course, a democratic right or whether you want to listen to who's talking. If you want to hear it the right way, try it the right way and understand it. I will not use and will not abuse the Rules of Procedure, because I know him very well, but I will ask you not to allow the MPs in the future, regardless of what parliamentary groups they come from, whether or not the positions of opposition do not abuse the Rules of Procedure in order to replicate the MPs. I, as head of the parliamentary group, spoke about the agenda point, as head of the parliamentary group, referred only to what was said during today's session, and everything we talked about was very much about the amendment that was submitted and specifically related to Article 2. The bill and I don't see any of the speakers jumping past the agenda and past what the amendment is. I'm not asking the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u248	Thank you. Then I don't have to explain it, but I appreciate the apparition. I am, by my best knowledge, knowledge and experience, really trying to apply the Rules of Procedure to the maximum, which is exactly the member you pointed to. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Enis Imamovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u249	Thank you. The President-in-Office, you have injured Article 103, under which the MP has the right to orally point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to do so immediately after the injury has been done. So, counterpart Milicevic pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The only reason he could get a word for, and to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, was to address his previous SNS speaker. So you can't hurt the Rules of Procedure on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I expect you to know that as an experienced MP, and I expect that, as you colleagues from the SNS, you draw attention that you cannot address me directly, because we have to address you directly when you chair the session, to listen. It is my right to invite you to listen to the apparition of the Rules of Procedure so that you may know whether you have committed or not that breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Milicevic, could not get the right to speak up for the violation of the Rules of Procedure because before him spoke an SNS MP who pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I allegedly did by inviting you to listen to what the MPs are telling you. When you are in the position of the chairman, you must listen to what the MPs say, just as you are obliged to listen and that they stick to the agenda. Since they did not stick to the agenda, we have entered a chain of circulation of violations of the Rules of Procedure and we are prevented here from continuing to work, and this is a debate on amendments that we as a parliamentary group have submitted with the aim of improving this law and with the aim of saying that we think this law can be better, more efficient and meaningful.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u250	Thank you. Time's up. Mr. Imamovic, I don't quite understand if you pointed to a breach of article 103 or 106? Could not close temporary folder: %s You just did what you're talking about. I don't really know where you read it, and what kind of interpretation of your Rules of Procedure is that when you say you can't hurt the Rules of Procedure's injuries? It cannot be a replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you will agree that you have just pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure after one replica, so I ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to really return to the amendment and to continue the discussion in particular if your colleague Milicevic agrees with that. In my system, I have two or one currently reported, Mr. Jovanovic, who will talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u251	The Honorable Chairman, you are in Zrenjanin, I am Jovanov with us in Kikinda, so I ask you to do so in the future... So, I'll talk... Here, Mr. Imamovic asked to talk about what was brought here to improve the text. I can't vote for two reasons. First, because I don't understand part of it. Secondly, because I don't think this is improving anything, but I think it's further complicated what's not complicated, and now I'm going to try to explain. Therefore, Article 2 provides for the abolition of one ministry, the formation of a new ministry continues to be discussed by amendment 2 in Article 11. I have to do this because it's connected. It says, the ministry is called "the Ministry of State Administration, Local Self-Government and Minority Self-Government". Please remember the name of the ministry as defined by the amendment promoter. Thus, "the Ministry of State Administration, Local and Minority Self-Government". In the first sentence, the applicant deleted "the minority self-government" and writes "the ministry of state administration and local self-government". You have that in the right paragraph. The second paragraph again lacks "a minority self-government", rather than "the ministry of state administration and local self-government", and the third paragraph again lacks "a minority self-government", but the ministry is called "the ministry of state administration and local self-government". So the name of the ministry is completely contradictory of what follows later in the text. The amendment's own applicant has dropped "a minority self-government" on which he insists, behold, all day long. And he cares so much about "the minority self-government" that he forgot to sign it into his own amendment. However, Article 13 provides for an even more brilliant thing. The ministry is called the Interior Ministry, and in the second paragraph it says "the administration for co-operation with citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the region", it is a change in the name of the administration, "as an authority of the administration within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs". So, at the Ministry of the Interior, we're going to have the Department of Foreign Affairs, so we're going to actually have one Ministry of Internal Affairs, so they're going to be doing internal, afternoon outside, or as the applicant of the amendment has already imagined, I really don't know. And then, above all, he tells us that the proposed solution is more meaningful than the one proposed in the law. Well, it's not. This is fundamentally incorrect. It has been proposed that the management at the foreign ministry be with the foreign ministry, not to move to the interior ministry. So this is so contradictory, so badly written, it was better not to insist so much that we deal with the amendments themselves. So, if the applicant of the amendment so insists on protecting the rights of his minority and the people to whom he belongs, then it is clear to me why this people do not vote to the extent that he would want for him, because who should vote for a man who is not able or an amendment to submit in his favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u252	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. If there are no more notifications, or if there are no more notifications, it shall be subject to the amendment. Proposer Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u253	I'm glad you, my colleague, have entered the interpretation of the essence of this amendment. Here you could see that the responsibility of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is also the organisation of elections, including the organisation of elections for national councils of national minorities, as well as the keeping of electoral lists, including certainly a special electoral list within which members of national minorities are declared during the elections for national councils of national minorities. Therefore, according to this competence of minority self-government and how it falls within the framework of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. I don't see where we've skipped the name of minority self-government in Article 2. So we have proposed a clear name in item nine – the Ministry of State Administration, local and minority self-government. So if we are talking about the same amendment, we are talking about an amendment to Article 2 that we have submitted. If there were some technical errors in the application of the amendments, it can certainly be taken into account that you, the Government Act, which I said in principle, had been put in place by an emergency procedure, so after a speedy procedure, that on several occasions you gave one, the second, third guidelines, one, the second, third dates for the government's election, and then after four months after the emergency procedure, you put the Law on Government's choice. So we're one regional minority party. We only have five boards and we arrive as much as our capacities. So, we propose in Article 2 that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government be left with the responsibility of managing the register, organising elections for national councils of national minorities, managing the work of national councils of national minorities because it is in the jurisdiction and current, current Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Therefore, the introduction of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights does not create new circumstances when it comes to organising the work of national councils of national minorities, which, as I said several times, are bodies of minority self-government that are logical to be in the Ministry of State Administration, local and minority self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u254	Thank you. (Milenko Jovanovic: Replica. ) Mr. Jovanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. I knew it was the SNS' fault that the amendments didn't work out, and I knew that it was probably Alexander Wolfich himself, but I didn't just know how? Here, now we've made that clear. So, we have confused the applicant with these elections, the terms, the announcements, and he has not submitted a valid amendment. So, evil me, I apologize here on behalf of the SNS for confusing you. It is not disputed to say that there is a mistake, to accept a mistake, a small party as you said yourself, I understand it all, it's all fine. The problem is, you're trying to explain this to something that's not an excuse. So this isn't a technical mistake. You can't talk about a technical error when you're making, the essence of your amendment is, both the second and later is a different definition of the ministry's work. So you call the ministry different, and then you don't mention it anywhere anymore. It's not a technical mistake. A technical error would have been if you had written this instead of "local self-government-cellaneous self-government", it's a technical mistake, so insert this in and correct it. You here literally ignore what your core is called the Ministry. It's the only thing you've changed, it's minority self-government, and you don't mention it anywhere anymore. You mention it later in the text, and the ministry doesn't call it that anymore. It's only in the title that's called, in the title, so above Article 11. The same goes for article 13. So, you're stuck, you took the copy-pass from the Foreign Ministry, you transferred it to the Home Office, so I don't know how you did this? If it's not copy-paste, it's worse. I'm giving you a chance to make it easier to say a wrong officer, but you say he's not. So this is absolutely ignorance. So, the Home Office is being transferred from the Foreign Office, and you continue to define it to work in foreign affairs. Finally, this is an amendment with a correction. What were you correcting, for God's sake? You divided what you wrote in one amendment into eight amendments, and you left a bunch of bad things behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u256	Thank you. The time for the replica is up. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Krsto Janjušević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u257	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, related to the amendment and remarks to affect the position of national minorities and related to the section around the election, has an interesting, very interesting part about the election. More specifically, the previous presidential elections, where the leader, the gentleman who submitted the amendment, urged citizens, specifically in Sjenica and Tutin to vote for Sasa Jankovic for Serbia's president. One percent of Serbs live in Tutin, in Sjenica about 17%. In Tutin, Aleksandar Vukic won 77.5%, while in Sjenica, 79% of the citizens' votes. So, is there a mistake here or there in the amendment, whether someone wants something bad for those citizens, so who's going to give a better answer whether it's a mistake or whether someone wants good or bad from them, and they say it in the elections, with serious turnout. So, to talk about it, there's a lot of imbalance between your attitudes here and what you see at the bar. No one listens to that kind of political demagogy anymore that someone is at risk. You know, there people are already thinking about reconstructing the roadway of Novi Pazar-Ribaric, 24 kilometers, 540 million. There people are already watching the completion of works in the part of Sjenica-Aljinović, 13.8km. There people are already expecting a continuation of the construction of the Novi Pazar-Senica road, 43 kilometers of Raška-Novi Pazar and are expecting a highway across the cave that will reach Požega at the end of next year. Therefore, he will not only get to Požega to be better for the citizens of Požega, but he will come closer to the Cave to be better for all citizens living both in Novi Pazar and in Sjenica and in Tutin and in the whole part of Serbia. These are people who are stared at Serbia's economic progress, the president who does not make a difference in religion, the nation, who treats all alike. You know, if we were dealing with someone in Uzic right now saying what goes through the Cave, and what are we, is that someone walking around us? And imagine if we went deeper into doing it, and then someone said -- and what are Serbs discriminated against here? No, no one is discriminated against, because they are all citizens of Serbia. Well, depending on whether your leader is in the chair or not, we're not gonna shake much, so let's believe that the citizens are being discriminated against. The only thing that seems to be discriminated against here is your leader, who misses the chair a lot. If that's the case, come on, we'll buy him a chair, just don't tell him the truth. We'll buy him the best chair he's got. So, the Raška area is a cradle of Serbian statehood and you individuals who would make it a tomb of Serbian statehood will be sent together by Serbs and Bosniaks into political history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u258	Thank you, dear colleague Janjusevic. I know that you are an experienced MP, I would ask all of you to remind ourselves of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which we do not directly address each other, but through the chairman, because you have just opened the opportunity for Mr Enis Imamović, whom I will, of course, give you the right to replication, to respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u259	Thank you, Your Honor. So, here they are said, in addition to these petty insults, which we hear all day about some chairs, etc., here are extremely difficult words, which is that someone here in any way endangers both the Serbian statehood and the Serbs and the Sandzak. I don't understand where you're coming from, my colleague, so many wrong attitudes at the expense of the SDA Sandzak. You see, and here I am during the discussion, just the behavior of the ruling majority and the amount of aggression on the very fact that one party has dared to propose an amendment, so how come some party, especially minority, dares to say what it is to do with this law? Maybe it's proof that it was our own fault why we didn't boycott the election. What are we doing here? The question is, what is anyone here going to think differently from the ruling majority? Do you see how you accept every criticism? Do you see how you accept every different opinion? You've been here an hour of frustration about a man who hasn't even been there for a few days. Why? Because only his party and parliamentary group, to whom we belong here, is opposition. Well, come on, people, figure out a way to put up with six minority opposition MPs in parliament in the next session. Otherwise, we're gonna ask ourselves what's the reason we're coming here?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u260	Sorry, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u261	Well, time's up, of course. What, it's out of the question in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u262	Please, colleague, stick to the Rules of Procedure and not abuse the tolerance of my previous colleague or mine. Thank you. By amendment, Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u263	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I propose that the amendment be rejected, and I shall state the reasons for that. Among other things, I agree that no one in this Assembly, nor anywhere in Serbia, has the right to challenge anyone in expressing and expressing their opinion and to explain that opinion. But I really have to ask the question - is this congregation majority right too? Is there a right for anyone in Serbia, do citizens have the right to speak their mind? It was in this National Assembly this year and at this point in 2016 and 2014 and 2012, including the previous years, and in 2008, that those who received the votes of Serbian citizens and, accordingly, we speak in the interest of citizens, in the interest of those who voted and in the interest of those who said in their voice that we should be here and that we should represent their interests. So I ask for understanding and ask that someone in this opposition finally understand that the assembly majority also have the right to their own opinion, that Serbian citizens have the right to their own opinion. It is precisely in line with Serbian citizens' decisions that we have the assembly's call. Serbia is not only Belgrade, it is not only Novi Sad, nor Nis, Kragujevac. Serbia is located both in villages and small towns and in smaller municipalities. Just thanks to Alexander Vukic, thanks to his vision and vision that has been turned into reality, nothing is far away in Serbia anymore. And on today, at this point, there is a highway of Ruma-Shabac, there is a fast traffic from Šapac to Loznica, there is a new bridge across the Sava River, but it is also in the announcement of the highway from Novi Sad to Ruma. There are other highways and roads in the announcement that will connect all those areas that were once not even planned. What the president of Serbia is doing now, some of the other parties couldn't put it into pre-election promises, and they made pre-election promises by sitting and imagining that again and by who knows which way to deceive their citizens. It is the bill that defined that we have a ministry that will take care of the village that clearly shows the intention and clearly shows the vision of the Serbian president, but also the future government and, of course, us here in the Assembly. Care of the village, is there anything simpler than words -- we'll create, we'll form, we'll vote one ministry that'll take care of the village? Well, of course, it's the simplest thing in the world. But everything that Alexander Wolf does really looks very simple. Well, is there anything simpler than doing these highways? Is there anything simpler than connecting just all the villages and all the municipalities? Is there anything simpler than to announce new investments related to water and sewerage and local roads in Serbia? All this seems very simple when Alexander Vukic does it and when the responsible Government does it and responsible ministers do it. I insist that this amendment and all the amendments that have been submitted, which are in fact a copy-paiste and which are only submitted for reasons to deny something, regardless of what is written has no basis for either right or justice, and among other things, there is no support for the citizens of Serbia. I call once again on my colleagues to refuse this amendment and, of course, to support this change and these proposals for the structure of the ministries, or the structure of the government, because this proposal is the best and gives the most opportunities for villages, dialogue, to be careful, in the title of the ministry – dialogue, social dialogue, of course, dialogue on all issues and on all the issues and issues that are currently current and that need to be addressed in Serbia. Once again, thank you and in voting day, we support this proposal for the structure of the ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u264	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Djordje Milicevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u265	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I promised not to violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and, of course, I won't do it, but I just wanted to well-mean it to you, I pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure for a moment. The moment I log into the electronic system, you can't know if I pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not, but I raised the Rules of Procedure. You told me you'd give me your word later. You can't give me a word later, because you can give the injury the moment the injury was done. I will now exercise the right of the parliamentary group, so I will explain what I wanted to say through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I have the legitimate right as head of the parliamentary group to use the right and the right that belongs to the head of the parliamentary group, but also the right that belongs to the parliamentary group. So what we just heard here is the least said violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not to say a more difficult word. I don't want to say it. When someone says that everything has lost its meaning and that nothing makes sense, then they don't underestimate us. I have no problem with that, as I suppose none of the MPs and MPs have a problem with that, but he insulted the citizens, because we are representatives here, us 250, we are representatives of the citizens, and this huge number of citizens who went to the parliamentary elections. It is underestimation and degradation of Serbian citizens. I'm asking you not to allow it in the future. Dialogue, counterpart Birmancevic said, so we were always ready for dialogue, even when this quasi political elite sought dialogue in electoral conditions. We said yes, we are ready to discuss this at the Faculty of Political Sciences and in the Assembly, although we believe it is natural for you to accept the invitation of the National Assembly president and to discuss these topics here in parliament, because they concern the law, and the laws are passed in parliament. We have no problem listening to you and listening to your suggestions and suggestions, so we can even listen to suggestions and suggestions, of course, and to the NGO sector. Most of those suggestions and suggestions were accepted. So dialogue – yes. We just heard here that we're trying to stop someone from submitting the amendment, and we've always advocated... Wait, Mr. Martinovic, in the previous session, the opposition resented the SNS for submitting amendments and for putting up with, as the ruling coalition, the amendments. We have spoken all the time, and it is the legitimate right of every messenger to submit the amendment, and no one can dispute it. I'm sorry that my colleague came out, but it's just an indicator of how right he is, and it's just an indicator of what he wanted to achieve by achieving such amendments, media space, and to try somehow politically to profit like, call, some quasi opposition. Come on, please, Parliament is the voice of the people and we here are talking about alternatives, how to get as high-quality legal proposals as possible, which will be in the best interest of the citizens. Accordingly, everyone has the right to submit an amendment, but let us, too, who have not submitted the amendment, have the right, legitimately, to state our political position on the amendment. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u266	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. Thank you for your advice from the beginning of your presentation, because you as former vice president certainly have more experience in holding a session. I hope I make fewer mistakes in the future, but I don't think that was a mistake, because you weren't in the system when you... No, you weren't in the system at all, and I didn't see you raise the Rules of Procedure, so I apologize. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u267	The Honorable President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, given that this is my first address in this magnificent House of the National Assembly, I would like to thank, first of all, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the SNS who allowed me to become part of this magnificent House and to speak here before you in this beautiful, historic building. Given that we are considering amendments to the draft ministry law today, in particular Article 2, I would like to present a few important facts concerning this amendment and the state of democracy in our society. We are often honored that it is us who are holding democracy back, that we are the culprits of some lack of parliamentaryism in Serbia, so-called. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Alexander Vukitch, just now the SNS insist that we all need to talk to each other. We are the ones who promote dialogue, so we won a huge number of votes in the elections, we were able to form the government ourselves, but we are the ones who want to hear the attitudes of those others, the attitudes of minorities and the attitudes of the opposition. We remember having a lot of problems with the opposition in the last term of parliament. In particular, some representatives of the opposition, some of their MPs were destroying inventory in the National Assembly, they re-evaluated the work of this entire parliament and we allowed it only to show that we are the ones who insist on democracy. Some of our MPs were physically attacked, and how did we react? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to highlight one important fact. We have adopted an Action Plan for the exercise of the rights of national minorities, which is foreseen under the Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 23, which is also the current of democracy and part of European law, i.e. "aki communitre", so-called. We also had elections for national councils of national minorities, which is a very important indicator, i.e. an indicator of democracy in our society. After 15 years, we have adopted the Regulation on the allocation of funds from the National Minorities Budget Fund, where 72 projects of national minorities serving as national minorities are approved, that is to promote the culture of national minorities, and that is very important, thanks to the policies of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. I would like to point out that I am very glad that we have representatives of national minorities in power. In particular, in our assembly government, we have Mrs Elvira Kovac and Mr Muamer Zukorlic, who are vice presidents of the National Assembly. Also, some of the candidates for ministers are members of others, whether they are opposition parties or non-party personalities. This is an indication that we and how we are a developed democratic society that respects all European human rights standards. That's why it's underprivileged to say it's SNS that's against it. So, I would like to underline that thanks to Alexander Vukic's policy, his commitment and SNS policy, we have come to this level to speak openly with everyone, with all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We don't make a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u268	I thank my colleague. I got information from my colleagues that this is your first exposure. Congratulations. By amendment to Djorge Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u269	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly support those amendments that are trying to rightly improve the text of the law. These are certainly amendments that we will adopt later, proposed by counterpart Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as well as counterpart Vladimir Djukanovic in front of the Justice Committee, and those amendments that have been submitted purely to Serbia as a state that does not respect national minorities will certainly not be supported by our parliamentary group. As you can see, today in the O.R., now in the O.R., it's not the ones who filed those amendments. They said what they had, they criticized Serbia, they said here they did not respect the rights and freedoms of national minorities. I'd just tell them, even though they're not in the O.R., God forbid Serbs in the region are breaking their rights as they are being violated here. God forbid we have such rights in the region as do national minorities today in Serbia. I'll remind you that not a day goes by for any Serb to break his head, not a day goes by that we don't read that there's a broken Cyrillic board in Vukovar, not a day goes by that somewhere in the region there's no attack on property either by the Serbian people or by the SPC. So up until a month ago, we were fighting an absentee to preserve the monasteries, to preserve the assets of the SPC in Montenegro, which was brutally attacked by the autocratic regime of a neighbouring country, wanting to re-write that property to another religious organization. So, saying that today in Serbia we are violating national rights and freedoms, absolutely degrades every truth. So, of course, that we will not support this proposed amendment, and that we will certainly try to make sure that all those amendments that are really trying to correct the legal text of the proposed law, of course we will give support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u270	Thank you. By amendment, Adam Schucalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u271	I thank the chairman. I will also talk about the technical shortcomings of these amendments, submitted by the parliamentary group, as they are called, the United Valley of the SDA, and this addition of the anti-constitutional name of this parliamentary group, Sandzak. At the very beginning, I'm going to say two things that disqualify my colleagues to talk here that they're ready to talk about these amendments first. First, they made this confusion, because the text of the amendment was presented the wrong way. As you can see in the text itself, we only have an amendment one, although several members of the Ministry Act should change, so technically it should look by each article that we have Amendment Two, Amendment Three, Amendment Four, etc., no matter how many colleagues want to propose these amendments. Mr. Jovanovic spoke of what I saw at the very beginning, which is the unpreparedness of this parliamentary group in terms of writing and form, but also the essence. Therefore, they are in Amendment two, which is now being added here, and since we have had the opportunity here to listen to a play that was staged before this hall or as you can see, this parliamentary group, and thank God that it is, has a lot of publicity in this conference, and it will use it to prove that Serbia does not respect minority rights, although there is no parameter for such disqualification. Their absence at this point shows that they will not be here on any of the following amendments, but I suppose they ended up now at some press conference where they will now declare for two of Gilas' media that they are otherwise endangered. You see how much attention we pay to them, how much we've dedicated ourselves to reading everything they've prepared in a hurry, to continue to manipulate with populist measures in their own electoral body. Who's the SDA? Who is the Party of Democratic Action that connects here with Albanians in one valley, to a Sandzak that is anti-constitutional? My colleague Imamovic, who is not unfortunately here, I wanted to ask him, I called him the other day, I took good care and wrote down what he was saying for a simple reason because it's personal to me as someone who grew up with Bosniaks, who has many friends of Bosniaks, extremely important to understand what is basically a lack of understanding, basically the reason for him to say or members of the Bosniak people who represent them, unfortunately they are in minority, to their misfortune by the number of votes they have received, which is why they are threatened or threatened by the state of Serbia when there is a registered such political party in Serbia first, so SDA Sandzak says, so here is the registered parliamentary group. Please, my colleague was talking about Article 182 paragraph 3 on the way in which the status of autonomous provinces is spoken, and I was talking about the way the Constitution changes and how the status of autonomous province is obtained. We don't have autonomous Sandzak province here to talk to us about some endangered rights. Thank you to a young colleague who was now talking about a partnership with the region. God forbid a Serb in the Federation of BiH is as right as the Bosniak in the Republic of Serbia. Oh, my God. I'll give you a few parameters. How many Serbs are in Sarajevo today? They say there are more Chinese with Chinese shops. I believe there are more markets with a store in Basharshi than there are Serbs today in Sarajevo, these are real pictures, or how many Serbs are institutionally present in the town of Mostar, Mostar, which is also the Serbian city? For the sake of comparison, Serbs are on the whole of BiH's constituent people. As a constituent people in the Federation of BiH, they have far less rights than the national minority, whether it's Bosniak or any other one, which we have exceptionally respected by showing just an example that we have a Bosniak who is now vice president of the Assembly. The fact that the Party of Democratic Action, established and launched by the late Ali Izetbegovic, who basically had his political programme had a story and green transvests and everything that is trying to get through these names here. There is no point here, to be clear in the ministries, is not the essence of the Ministry Act here. Here is the essence of attacking the Republic of Serbia, that the Republic of Serbia appears on the external agenda through a channel of communication that is being realized here, the channels that have embellished themselves around Serbia here by installing optics through criminal tycoon contracts to today place these false news that are not against SNS, they are founded against the Republic of Serbia and every discussion has that color. It is very grateful to be in this parliamentary group for the simple reason that it is minority and because it is a composition of the Assembly that maintains the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, I, as a national MP, will be extremely committed to what the president of the Republic of Serbia is up for, and this is a new Serbian-Bosnian friendship. You do not have, dear friends of Bosniaks, no one closer to the Serbs, no one in the Western Balkans, the former Yugoslavia and a bad policy, the SDA policy, which unfortunately dominates the Federation of BiH, is a path without end, a path where you have nowhere to connect. We need each other's hands and every message since Mr. Alexander Vukic was elected both to the Prime Minister and to the President of the Republic was a message of reconciliation, a message delivered by hand, a message so vividly, as Mr. Vukic put it – we will enter the Serbs' shoes, and you will enter ours to see that it is not easy. The key message is a message of co-operation, institutional, political, willful, right towards the people, according to the national minority, according to other national minorities. Serbia today, and thus the Serbian Progressive Party, which represents the majority will of Serbs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, shows that in this era of domination, it wants two vice-presidents of the National Republic of the Assembly to have. I'll give you another parameter here. Bosniaks in Republika Srpska have four ministries, have a deputy prime minister, of 16 ministries they have four representatives of Bosniaks who are constitutive in Republika Srpska's space. Here in the media is a wrong picture, a picture in which Mr. Imamovic, his party, the parliamentary group in which he works, is threatened here. No, we want to, if we discuss it normally, if we discuss the amendments as they invest, then we have to mention they're not ready. If we're talking about the bottom line, the bottom line is what I said. If we are talking about intent, then it is clear that there is an intention here that institutionally needs to undermine the fundamental constitutional foundations of the Republic of Serbia, and one of the basic foundations is its territorial integration and integrity and there is no Sandzak in that area. We've got Raski County. We don't have a Sandzak. Ideologically, the story of Sandzak is a story that is related to Sarajevo. The ideological story may belong much better today in some discussion, as there is also a pre-election campaign for local elections, in Zetra, which is a short term for "Green Transferzal", not for the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And the one who comes here with respect should primarily know. These policies that are trying to recycle here today have long been defeated. These policies have not been given refuge anywhere in the international community, and policies led by SNS and Aleksandar Vucic have won on all sides of the world, in all relevant international institutions support and credibility. We will continue in this direction, but we will not allow anyone to humiliate us in this sense in the Republic of Serbia, so as to say that this small office, the administration, for Serbs in the region and the diaspora, which is what your eyes are, so we must not call anything Serbian but everything must qualify as "a Serbian citizen". Well, I guess at least one administration within the institutions of the Republic of Serbia deserves that name? Is that too much? If it is too much, go to federal Sarajevo, go to the Republic of Croatia, and you will see that no name of the institution has the name of the citizens or citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but has the omen – Croatian. And there's eyes and stuff here, so let's get it out of this bill. That's not right. Respect for each other and tolerance is a two-way street. But the first condition for this kind of story is respect for the state where you live and its institutions. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u272	Thank you. By amendment, MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u273	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is here when it comes to this amendment to this coalition or the parliamentary group that is very strangely called and I have to be open and honest – I do not understand what it means and what the meaning of the Valley is? I understand what parties are at stake, but I don't know what the "Down" means? I guess it's alluding to something that really doesn't exist in our geographical, geopolitical or any aspect, which is what it is. Presevo Valley, as a synonym for Presevo and Bujanovac and, as some can say, Medvedja, which absolutely neither geographically nor in any other way belongs and is not associated with cities or municipalities with the majority Albanian population, i.e. Presevo and Bujanovac. This is not about what the "racio legion" is about political will, ladies and gentlemen, and this is about the simple need and accession of certain MPs, in this case the MPs of the opposition. I'm sorry that Mr. Imamovic is not in the O.R. right now that we're having a little debate about it, but about the political will to be state-owned, to be part of the state and to help and to make a major contribution so that this country can develop and, in addition to political development, economic, social, could develop its policy on human and minority rights. I believe that Serbia, in that domain, led by SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic, is simply a champion, at the level of Europe, and we even overcome many EU countries when it comes to human and minority rights. When it comes to respecting the rights of minorities in this country, we have many bright examples of this – excellent co-operation with the Hungarian minority and with their representatives and almost historical co-operation and excellent co-operation between the two countries, between Serbia and Hungary, which is reflected in the maximum political but also in economic and other support. I would advise an esteemed colleague who defended this amendment from the opposition's ranks to look around him, to look at the region and the place where he lives and to see that there are both those people and that the majority Bosniak population in the Raška region or as they say – Sandzak is defined for the state of Serbia, it is defined to develop and is determined to exercise all his rights in accordance with laws and with the best practice of respect for human and minority rights in this country. And it can also be seen as representatives of Mr Ljajic's party and representatives of Mr Zukorlic's party and representatives of Mr Mirsad Djerlek's party. So it is very important that in this domain only this approach is considered and it is only a matter of political aspect and how much someone wants to actually reach a chair and how much someone in this way, fighting for the rights of the national minority or minority in which it belongs, actually wants to blackmail the government and wants to blackmail the ruling party and party, in order to achieve a particular or any other rights. As SNS and President Vukic think in this area speak schools, the infrastructure speaks, the economy speaks. No one has ever asked a question, and no one has ever asked anyone his name and last name, whose nation and religion he belongs to, when he was employed, when the highway was built, when the school was built. No, but all citizens of Serbia are being watched and considered to be both today and today as well as that difference when it comes to the national structure in our country represents exactly the wealth that President Vucic and SNS have made of maximum use for our people and for our country. I advise my colleagues Enesa Imamovic to go back a little bit to history and to look a little at some people who represented the Bosniak or Muslim community, let's say before World War II, the bright examples of Muhammad Spah, a Yugoslav Muslim organisation that, at one point in 1935, became part of the Yugoslav Radical Community, so-called "Jereza" was part of the state and fought together with representatives of the Serbian people, the Slovenian people and other peoples who made up the then-Kingdom structure of Yugoslavia, something that had the main objective of developing the country, which had economic, political and any other prosperity. Therefore, respecting SNS any aspect of human and minority rights is just as if you are now honoring us and saying that our economic results are not good, that economic growth is not as great as it is. And here's what came yesterday, and it's very important in "Blumberg," so the American portal that's been read and appreciated, that the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the proposal and the composition of the new government is so balanced and so much going ahead of its time and goes ahead of many richer states when it comes to the representation of women in that government itself, that we simply have a situation today that people who have a vision of this country are run by a leader and president who has a vision and on politics, geopoliticals, economies, human, gender, trade union and all other rights. It is the SNS, it is President Aleksandar Vukic, and so, of course, we will continue in this aspect and so in the future, taking care of, of course, all the citizens of our country, but leading and managing the interests of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian interests as a priority, unlike some other times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u274	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. Since there are no more applications for this amendment, we move on to the next one. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) We move on to the next amendment. The 2nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. Does anyone want a word? By amendment, Djordje Milicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u275	I'm sorry, we were just talking about Article 2. I think we're talking about Article 11. I think we're talking about an amendment to Article 11. Right, am I right? Now, if it weren't for us to politicize the whole story and not be if we hadn't analyzed it properly and systematically dealt with the amendments that were submitted by our colleagues, I would first be talking about the amendment itself, as my colleague said for a moment that we all paid due attention to each submitted amendment, regardless of what comes from the lines of opposition. So, this Article 11, those who call themselves the United Valley or already what, are proposing to change the name of the Ministry of State Administration by adding - and minority self-government. The ministry is required to determine salaries in minority self-government bodies, i.e. in the national councils of national minorities. So they want their advice to be considered by the authorities of local self-government which by nature things are not. They have special status, special powers, and that is in accordance with the law I spoke about, which is the Law on National Councils and the Law on National Minorities. If their proposal were to pass, it would practically mean that in some future period, national councils would be some kind of parallel government in local communities where there are minorities. That certainly shouldn't be allowed. It doesn't even make sense, it's not even natural. In addition, there is a special ministry that is being formed, which is the Ministry of Human Minority Rights, a social dialogue that will also deal with issues of national minorities and we have already talked about and understood the promoter and, of course, we support the proposal's position not to accept this amendment as well. What I wanted to talk about, so it is clear to us exactly where we need to submit such amendments, and even the following amendments that we will not report on for one simple reason, because we believe that the amendments were written clean to get a story space, such as amendments to Article 20, 23, 24, etc., which again confirms that we have read the amendments and we have systematically dealt with these amendments. What I'm trying to say is, it's quite clear to us that those who have submitted these amendments want to present themselves to the opposition and no one can take that right away from them, no one can take away their right to have a critical look at the work of the ruling coalition. It's their legitimate right, but criticism for criticism and this kind of amendment to just get media space, I don't see that it will bring political points. Serbian citizens pragmatic and only results today bring political points. It's like, you're going to have a short term of course, you're going to be present on the media in the short term, if that means anything, it's okay, but it's like when you schedule a press conference and you say that masks increase mortality. Then you are in the right way current, under the pretext, in the right way current that one day in the media. The opposition is expected to offer an alternative, to offer alternative solutions. If the Ministry Act is not good, let us hear the opposition's proposal, what is it that the opposition specifically proposes, not just criticism for criticism. The question is, you know, who are you trying to be opposition to? To be an opposition to the state where you live, to the people you live with and who has accepted you as your own, because you try to be an opposition to them all the time, and you call yourself some kind of United Valley. I would agree with my colleague and his earlier findings. You're absolutely right, we understand the essence of all this, the essence of all this is Serbia. The essence of all this is the destabilisation of Serbia. The essence of all this is what they are preparing for 2022, which is the destabilisation of Serbia, and the first point of destabilisation of Serbia is the presidential elections. You see what their media is doing, and what those who call themselves opposition do, and you see very well that they are uniting those you couldn't even imagine being united, but here they are united by interest and desire for power, and that as soon as they reach power and privilege, and if possible they do so without a choice. So the first step in all of this is certainly presidential elections and these are titles. I will remind you once again, hence, when the president of Serbia bravely and resolutely comes out and announces the fight against crime and corruption, hence their media comes out with these, I would not say photographs, correct me, you have been in the media, with a background in the studio to say so, which is extremely embarrassing and extremely hypocritical. I say once again, drawing a target at the head of the family of the president of the Republic of Serbia, I personally and MP club condemn the drawing of a target on the head of any MP's family, any politician. We deal with politics, you put a bucket of feces on us, we don't mind, but there must be one threshold of political tolerance and political culture, and that's family. We all have to respect that. I ask you not to deal with what was wanted in today's session in the next time period, and this is exactly this, to get out of the room and say, well, we are minorities, we are challenged and prevented from submitting amendments, which, of course, is not true, because this exit is not a sign of wisdom and is not a sign of strength, but a sign of weakness and inability to show your strength through a democratic, reasoned debate and to say that you are right. But we will not send such a picture and we will not, as a ruling coalition, send such a message to the public. We accept, we spoke for a moment, how we take care of minorities in Serbia, but we also said how we look at every amendment submitted by every minority MP in Serbia. That's how we'll do it in the next period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u276	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u277	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I must rely on Mr Milicevic's presentation, that indeed every amendment they have submitted resembles the previous one and aims only to show some sort of apparent struggle for their rights, which is nowhere to be threatened. I really can't figure out that people who want to take politics seriously here have to give us a letter so that we have to act and talk about some kind of threatened rights. Here, the third session in a row ends their being in this room after only an hour and a half or two hours. I think that every further dialogue, monologue or discussion about their amendments is essentially losing purpose, because those who have submitted these amendments are not in the room to listen, to answer or possibly explain to us what they wanted with a certain amendment to achieve. Hypothetically speaking, I may have had a question to ask us distinguished colleagues to explain what they wanted to achieve with this amendment or some next one, but I now have no one to ask because they are not in the O.R. So I don't want us to disenfranchise every future discussion, but still not with our guilt, and I'm going back to the fact that for the representatives of the SNS and the ruling majority, the dialogue was never a problem, now it's in practice. Because here, we're sitting here, we want to discuss every amendment they've endured, but unfortunately, they're not in the room. As far as this amendment is concerned, and they bond with each other, although I have read and prepared the material, I have not understood the essence of this amendment, nor any of the following. I repeat again, as someone who has friends of different religions, who belong to different national minorities, I didn't feel on their part that any rights were threatened or that they felt discriminated somewhere. SNS policy, first of all Alexander Vukic, has always been and will be that all citizens are equal, no matter where they live, which are nationalities or religious belongings. I can't believe that today someone, when we're on the verge of adopting a law that will open and expand dialogue among all of us, is again trying to honor some of these things and to somehow degrade all these proposals, which makes it just for the sake of simple criticism. So that I don't take time away from some future speakers and don't report for every amendment, even though I have a lot to say about each amendment, I'm going to stick to just one amendment that burned my eyes and ears, and it's also about the Ministry of the Interior that's definitely going to be my turn. I can't believe someone's accessing this so irresponsiblely without thinking about what's going on at the Ministry of the Interior and especially about this amendment. They have underlined here that they want the employment of members of national minorities, the alignment of the structure of employees with the population structure in populated areas. So I can't believe someone who represents a national minority wants to count blood cells for people in the area where they live. So, what's necessary now, that you bring confidence or confirmation that you're a member of some national minority, I don't know who would give that confirmation and give it to you to get a job somewhere? It's just shocking to me that that way you want to create a structure or atmosphere, that someone is desirable or unwanted in relation to which nation they belong or that religion is. I just can't believe it. Imagine, hypothetically, that we came into a situation that someone from the ruling coalition suggested something like this. Well, there'd be a scandal. This is a typical example of a kind of discrimination. In fact, I'm shocked that someone who represents a national minority, I'm going to underline it again, suggest something like this. I think people only share, if it's business, on those who do their job well or who don't do it well. I don't think there's room anywhere to be tried or employed in any structure based on what its nationality or religion is. I can't believe we heard that today, but that shows us everything that previous speakers from the ruling coalition have mentioned, which is the fact that these amendments are only proposed to serve as a stage for their petty politics and to collect cheap political points. In addition, they had the same argument at ten, which is that we believe that the proposed solution is more meaningful than the one in the bill. I don't really know what's more meaningful here, I don't really know what's affecting the essence here, and I absolutely can't figure out what people wanted to achieve with these. To the very end, I end up with this, the government we're about to adopt this week has clearly set goals and these are the six points my colleagues talked about. But when we speak to these amendments, I cannot look again at the fact that SNS policy, President Alexander Vukic's policy has always been the development of every part of our country, the development of the possibility that every single person, wherever he lives, wherever he belongs to the nation, has the same chance to live, achieve, make, contribute to a better life in his environment and in his country and I am convinced that the next government, the next policy of President Alexander Vukic, will allow us all together to create an even better and even better place for life and for generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u278	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has the People's MP Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u279	Just a few things, to relate to the esteemed colleague Milicevic, whom I thank for mentioning things that we have not yet arrived at the SNS, preparing for this agenda point, to point out, which are on the air today. Of course, it's about the attack on Mr. Alexander Vukic's family. Let me get back to the amendment we're discussing for a while. As you can see, the promoter has introduced confusion, and we now don't know in this kind of story what amendment we're discussing anymore, for the simple reason that he hasn't numbered the amendments, so a little bit of this story, in terms of legislative regulation or amendment action, has spread. But it may be much more important for that reason to talk about the essence. Well, is today's debate and Saturday's debate on the Ministry's Law, on the new Ministry of Human Rights, on minorities, on dialogue, a succesively speaking for a simple reason to understand the importance, not showing in the right way the strategic definition of the future government of the Republic of Serbia in which it wants to go? And you come here and attack it?- I'm sorry. Well, this is one of the strategic specifics, just the introduction of that ministry. What is one of the key or new terms in that ministry? It's a dialogue. It will be extremely difficult for a new minister to run the ministry, because, as you can see, the agenda seems to be moving a little bit now, so whether we will now have the so-called political and public scene in the Republic of Serbia. threatened minority rights. Especially these stories about so-called. Sandzaku. For this reason, I will say one proposal of my own and personally what I will appeal for as a national MP, but also what I will appeal to this ministry, which is to bring the dialogue between Serbs and Bosniaks in the right way. It is that dialogue that repeatedly and continuously repeats the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. The constant positive message - we will not respond to an insult, to humiliation, on the other hand, to silence, we will not respond because we will not sow evil blood. All the insults that come from Sarajevo and Zagreb, we are silent. The President of the Republic shut up, and then we all shut up. Why? Because we know what our policy is, and this new Serbian policy represented by President Aleksandar Vukic is strategically defined with his hand to the Bosniaks. Dear friends, Bosniaks, I have many, on a given hand it does not reciprocate as your God-awful representatives of some political parties who are based in Sarajevo today represent in this high house. Put your hand on your hand. At the invitation to the dialogue, he sits at the table, and then he talks. The dialogue between Serbs and Bosniaks should enter a new phase, a higher stage. If I were to talk about bilateral relations with Turkey, Erdogan's policy goes that way and does not support such separatist moves that have this ideological background. For that reason, I'm just going to do a termological thing that's been dragged through these amendments, which is extremely important to understand, it's again one of the principles that should be understood. We cannot be a sign of equality of constitutionality and the right of national minorities, and the first fundamental principle of constitutionality should be to build the statehood of one state, institution, etc., and you, from the position of the national minority here, are proposing and seeking the right of a constituent people. Also, I will agree with my colleague Mirkovic, who said – why are you limiting yourself? The right of Serbian citizens is not disqualified by the national definition of how it is defined as a people. We take the identity of every nation, every citizen in the Republic of Serbia as an asset. We adopted part of their cultural heritage as part of our heritage, and when we talk about Serbian cultural heritage, if you don't understand the parallel, then you can, if you find yourself near Neum, then for 15 minutes, go to once the seat of the Zahum-Herzegovic diocese in the town of Stone and the Peljesac peninsula, and you will see that there is no information, material or life sign that it was our headquarters. These are the parallels, and these are the images we live in, and this is our position to fight for our identity to survive, and the identity of Bosniaks and messages coming from these speakers are just confirming, not that the hand is provided, the chair is provided, the positions are provided, the will and, as you can see, and today we are calling for dialogue, with the hand provided and the desire that we all work together in the interests of the Republic of Serbia. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u280	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u281	Thank you, Your Honor. It is very important for me to say something about this amendment about how much SNS is and how much we have done in the past few years, not just on words, because our policy is absolutely not and is not based on words and empty promises, but on concrete solutions, we have done on a balanced regional development, on improving the standards and quality of life of ordinary citizens, and I repeat it once again, no matter where they live, in which city they live, and which national community, which they belong to, or whatever they belong to. What has to be noted, what some people, and unfortunately some colleagues, will not say, out of their own political or particular interest, is that Alexander Vucic, that all these years the SNS has been building and working and specifically without some big pomp, without marketing, without any activities that were directed at naked political advertising and better political marketing, building schools, building diagnostic centres, building clinical centres, building roads, investing in rural and agricultural cooperatives, investing in agricultural investments, investing in factories, bringing foreign investors, helping and encouraging domestic investors, domestic small, medium and micro-enterprises. Why? So that every citizen of Serbia can live with dignity and well off his own work. That's the difference, and that's what separates Vucica and SNS and all of us sitting here as SNS MPs from those who led the country until 2012. These are concrete results and that's what we all have here and we try to do that, as citizens' servants and in the interests of citizens, and that's that we have this, that's that we have a face, that's to be interested in all citizens of the Republic of Serbia living well and quality. But they can't live well and quality of the story. They can't live well and quality unless someone on the other side of the dialogue wants this dialogue and wants to keep not only criticise it, but to act critically, act kibicerically and from the cafe, as our president says, drinking cappuccinos, criticises everything this country has done in the past years. How can you criticize what you can see with your naked eye? You don't have to be a member of an MP or an SNS sympathiser to see that this country has only built over 250 kilometers of highways in the last few years. You don't have to be a member of the SNS to see and to say that in 2019 more than 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment came to our country, that literally at just seven days each week we have some new investment from different world meridians. Here in Serbia today, companies from both the European Union and Germany, from Italy, from France and this friendship have managed to restore the alliance, thanks to President Vukic and thanks to President Makron. We have investments from South Korea, Japan, the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation and the United States. That's what SNS policy is, the economy, and that's what we've been up for, and that's what the president's been up for all this time and when it comes to solving some regional, but also internal conflicts. I mean the question of Kosovo and Metohija. For years, we've been pressured, they've been saying "status before standard" for years to come to what it is since 2014 -- economic integration, trade, business, investment, new jobs. These are the preconditions that can lead to better understanding, which can lead to what Vukic talked about all these years – free flow of goods, people and capital. It's the life of ordinary citizens, it's their jobs, it's their families, it's social policy, it's cultural policy, it's every other public policy that we here at SNS are trying to raise to the highest possible level, not looking at who comes from what city and, God forbid, not seeing who belongs to the people. I also want to say that we are quite open to any kind of dialogue, knowing that whatever you are doing can be wrong, whatever you are doing, maybe someone has a new, smarter idea and we are ready to listen to all these ideas and to work together with representatives and other citizens of the Republic of Serbia and with parties that other citizens of the Republic of Serbia voted for, although, of course, we never ignore the fact that the SNS today is at a historic maximum of support, with 66% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that we have the right to dictate and to lead politics, but of course we also take care of those who do not vote for SNS, but as a single state-owned party we take care of all, we give our hands and make sure that everyone today can have the right of choice, that everyone today can easily get a job, that everyone today has the right to good and quality education. This is what we have been pushing for for years, wanting to create a society not of egalitarianism, because of course we are a party to the right center, but a society of equal odds, where just as a major aspect of the success and development of this country will be human knowledge, be work, be tenacity, commitment, and when it comes to politicians or politics – patriotism and commitment to national, economic and all other interests of our country. So I have to say again that it's very important what kind of approach we have to the state and we've shown that in the years that preceded and this conference, we're very willing to work with everyone, but on constructive proposals. Given that we have shown enormous predication, enormous commitment and showed that we are doing concrete things, with 27% of unemployed people in 2012, we are now below 10%, with several thousand construction sites in 2012 today there are 61,000 construction sites in Serbia. Serbia is a country of cranes, Serbia is a country of buffers for which there must be room, and there is room for Bosniaks in Raško, and in Novi Pazar, and in Tutina, and in Sjenica, and in Nova Varoša, and in Prijepolje, but also for our brothers and friends of Hungary in Subotica, Sombor, in all of Vojvodina, in all the country and all those who respect this country and who want to be with us, who have the greatest confidence to build this country and to create a country that is modern, in which it is beautiful, in which it lives richly on its own order, in which you can normally and well and quality education. It will be the main contribution of what is our goal through the formation of this ministry of demographics, that our young people, those who are highly educated, highly qualified, who can contribute most to the development of this country that they stay here, to make them well here. I think that we too bear, of course, one enormous responsibility to create such a legal framework, such a business environment, for business, for staying here, for demographics, for giving birth, for social policy, so that people will gladly stay here and be competitive not only for those countries in the region, not just for our neighbours, but for EU members. If we can beat them in the economy, if we can have economic growth during the pandemic, if we can even bring investors during the pandemic, then we can beat them in demographics. We can and that's what's key, which is the waterhouse, which is the breaking point, which is what Vukic did on September 4th when our delegation returned from Washington. The winning spirit of this people, we brought it back, he gave us back the winning spirit, he gave us back our faith that we were good, that we were nothing worse than others, and that only by strong and great work we could do great results. We show it in all domains and we show it in all segments of social life. And to those who, of course, have a flat-rate criticism of everything and I say that they become more constructive and more constructive, given that our hand has been extended and that they can work together with us to work on Serbia's interest, on the interests of our citizens and on the interest of our children's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u282	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. According to the amendment, MP Marko Atlagic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u283	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, allow me, as a man who lived and worked his whole life in education, and in addition, he was involved in volunteer policy in the former regime, so that I could give some kind of statement or instructions to the younger generations, if they want to. What we heard today, Mr. Vice President, about the position of national minorities, that's exactly what I'm trying to say. Even in the former regime, Serbia boasted respect for the rights of national minorities, and it, especially by coming to the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and later, at the head of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, has improved to a certain level. I think we've done a lot, but that doesn't mean we won't do it in the next period. However, if we will and in the next period, we will do many things, we will advance many things. Allow me, but national minorities and not just national minorities, let every minority have a psychological sense of minority and thinks I've been denied. It's in psychology very well, that fellow psychologists and educators know very well and so on. Some consciously abuse it, attacking the state, in the sense that something is obtained by individuals, not by citizens. Let me put it this way to say that on the case of the national communities in Serbia we have proved in this difficult fight against Kovida-19 that we have just gone to minority places first. We are the first, while I'm at it, to say, to deny those who, every day, every day, on some televisions, and also to their portals, are propaganda against the fight against Kovid. You see, I say for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we are the first to introduce health measures to contain Kovida-19. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and respected citizens of Serbia? We first introduced the necessary measures to resuscitate not only the pandemic but also the economic measures. We have preserved the health system with the inhuman efforts of our nurses and our doctors. Is it true or isn't it? This is the answer, I will say a little later to those who disinform the people every night and every day, and attack everything that is good in the Republic of Serbia, and normally the biggest attack is on the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic and his family. In a difficult situation like this, we were building a hospital homage. Find the lands that built more. Is it true or not? We've adjusted the health system of the time we're in. Find the land that made it faster and better than our country. We have to admit that. Citizens admit it, and no political opponent has to admit it, he knows it, but he won't say it, so also when it comes to national minorities. Allow me, we helped the citizens in the most difficult situation with 100 euros. We saved the pensioners 1,700 grand. You want me to tell you how much it is preserved by the measures that our political opponents have constantly attacked. They have no shame or shame, and they know that our neighbors died, not only older, but younger, even children of it. Do we want good to our country if we do it and if we attack? Do we want the citizens of the Republic of Serbia well if we attack it? Let me further say a few sentences that we have adapted to the school system among the first in Europe, thanks to the rest of the ministry and the government, normally and to the President of the Republic, and should not let any of the ministers sleep on us as well. This situation is, and I've come from war areas, this is like a war situation, with the more I don't see this enemy, and he's very dangerous. To play with the state's measures, I can't figure it out. We got protective equipment before many. We have shown, I underline, we have shown solidarity, we have also given assistance to some European countries of the European community. I see that some people get bored, they raise their hands, and you shouldn't have come up against me. Let me say further, we've improved the health system and before these measures, we're 16 in Europe. Do you know who we were during the former regime in 2012? We were not on the list, and only in 2013 did we come to the list of 35 countries, and today we are 16 of the 35/36 countries, but we are here in front, I think a dozen EU countries. Let me say a few sentences, though, I don't know my colleagues from the inside, I think they're very good at it, but if they're not following me to say that the opponents of the fight against the pigs are very rude, very dangerous, bringing confusion among our citizens, there's a professor of the university. Don't let the respected citizens get to you. They did the same thing in 1999, led the demonstrations to destroy our country. If they want, I'll quote their dates correctly from foreign magazines and literature. One of them, who attacks Alexander Vukic every evening, is a man, who was even in the government of the Republic of Serbia, calls him an idiot. You know what he was doing in 1999? I'm not giving you a date, but next time I will, the New York Times has already published it in magazines. He boasts, among other things, that he formed paramilitary formations for the destruction of JNA and our police. Now, that's the one who's attacking Alexander Wolfie today. One university professor, every night at the N1 CIA, says, you see what he said in just one text, in one of theirs, quotes them, but he did tell the magazine about President 46 insults in one text that the human mind can't understand. I'll just say one part. He called him a big idiot, a university professor. And he led the demonstrations, he was a student in 1999. Free Prvnović. Now you'll hear from me when you ask me who he is. He says he's an idiot to the health system, and we're one of the best European countries. You see, respected citizens, who work against your health. Next, he called the prime minister a blabber, kept talking. Imagine the expression of a university professor. It's not in the same text that the president says, because he doesn't recognize him as president, he recognizes him as a wolf. Next, the mental leader. Imagine who's insulting who? Have we ever told anyone here that he's a mental leader? Complete idiots that we are all from the Serbian Progressive Party and all the MPs. Repeat again, idiots complete and that we're idiots. It's a finished quote. Furthermore, I quote – In the context of the pandemic I have seen that this country, this management, complete idiots. It's the one on N1 every night, she doesn't seem to know where she is, whether she's in Luxembourg or anywhere else. Finally, when he saw that, as our people say, the elections had passed and that the family was not even behind him, I believe that she would not vote either, he said, quote, respected MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a man who would stand on RTS, and he wanted to stand on RTS and against the radio, and then he said, "I think I'm a million times a fool in life as far as politics and add," I'm actually a moron. For the sake of the citizens, moron means fool, dude or what the Croat brothers would say to Zezek etc. So I really don't have the right to salt someone's mind, I realize I'm a fool, not once, but five times. It's a finished quote. But every night the same propaganda against Alexander Vukic, on the portals and on that television. I want MPs, honourable citizens, to see and not trust them. Trust your country, your president and your government. Next, he calls Anna Brnabić a jiberko, imagine, and he plays the role of finerness. Mamlaz is Mr. Secretary of Defense for him, Mr. Alexander Vulin. He says he's the president of the country. Shame on him. He is not alone, there are many more, but I pay particular attention to a lady, a university professor, who poisons citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Europe every night. It's a professor who worked at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, but was expelled. You know why? Because she didn't even hold it for an hour. She made more phone calls to France than the entire university, and then came to the Faculty of Philosophy in Kosovo Mitrovica. And she's propagandizing in the fight for a covid. He says we made it up and so on. It's time in Paris, time is here, but I don't know who that woman's working for anymore, but Alexander Wolfitch is a fool, that Dr. Kon is a fool, you heard the day before yesterday and so on. I'm warning her, since we gave her a job, here, I have the courage to say, because she was being sold to be a great patriot, she's still saying it's not working, especially not working on Kim. Now, that's what I'm warning her. Just the ones she criticized, they gave her life. This is what MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know. And finally, for the sake of the citizens, to remind them of our political opponents, because they forget very quickly, I saw, as if they were going to first grade, and even in first grade, children wouldn't forget. I ask you - who first financial consolidated the state? Let the citizens answer. Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who said I don't want NATO? Say, from the president of our country, backwards, answer. Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who first marked NATO aggression against our country? They weren't supposed to show up that day. Normally, Alexander Wolfie. Who said first - I won't impose sanctions on Russia? Who said? They bet a lot of people and lost a bet. Normally, Alexander Wolfie. The first one told the West -- you won't stop me from working with Russia and China. Why? We're not sitting on three chairs, we're sitting on our Serbian chair, and we're working with everyone. The first was to raise Serbia's army to an envied level after the dossive destruction. Is it true, gentlemen of the former regime? You can do any propaganda you want, you don't have the energy to deal with us here on evidence, not just evidence, where you didn't have because I'm here three convocations, this is the fourth one, and you could never last more than 15 minutes in this room, and today there are some that I can't. You'll have to compete with us and with me at this age, to come first, to run up the stairs first, to prepare first. Without work, there's nothing. It was before, they were taking factories, selling, destroying and so on. The first has restored the country's international reputation in the world. Is that right? Let me remind you. The first one introduced digitization. Is it true? The first one recovered the 166th edition of Miroslav’s Gospel where it belonged before. Remember well, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because I see some people are forgetting it, and citizens know it well, today Alexander Vukic is the last, only free ruler in Europe. I repeat, the last and only ruler in Europe. It is not easy to lead a local community, it is not easy to lead a family, it is not easy to lead a political party, let alone a state. Different opinions are allowed, different conflicts have come, but, while I was an opposition, me and my colleagues, here, ask them, did President Vukic keep telling us, and President Nikolic - when you go abroad, never against your political opponents. Did anyone say that? Stand up and say, "Dear People's Messengers." What's going on today? Today it is agreed with help as soon as the president arrives in America, meet or in Paris at a bar in the neighborhood, and the opposition is agreeing to tear down the system. They want to tear down the system, not Alexander Wolf. That means they want to destroy the state, the regime is not the problem. Let them crash in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, normally. I made it a little longer because I wanted the citizens to understand and not listen to the portals every night. That's spit. We have to pass portal laws. And for the insult? I really don't understand what the D.A.'s doing? Well, how is it for families not only the president of the state of Alexander Vukic, but also for individual ministers and MPs? I don't want to tell you about it, because I'm never going to say it, because I'm from one of the former regimes and I know how to take blows in every place, but history records it. And in 1999, she recorded it. She has recorded me, and you and everyone, and it will remain forever. He'll stay forever. History doesn't forgive anyone sooner or later. I'm sorry I made it too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u284	I thank you, Professor Atlagic, and I congratulate you on today's election as vice president of the responsible Committee on Education, Science Technological Development and Information Society. On the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the MP Glisic wishes to point out. To make that possible, I'll delete the list of people reported. Keep that in mind, MPs, you can re-apply for the word. Mr. Glissic, please take your word for it now. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u285	Mr. Vice President, you have violated Rules of Procedure, paragraph 106. You should have warned the previous speaker to speak on the subject. I think the subject here is amendments, not panegirics to the president of your party that's been going on for more than 10 minutes. Otherwise, this is my first experience in the Serbian Parliament and these two, three days I'm amazed at the level... I don't even know how to call it, and I don't know how many times each of you had a need, not every one, but most of you, to talk about Alexander Vukic, to talk about the president of your party. It's okay, it's the president of our country, but it's also the president of your party. So, that's how much advertising the president of his party, past the Rules of Procedure, is totally... I don't know, some of you have gray hair, like me, and at the time of Joseph Broz Tito, it wasn't like this. So this is really something that lowers the level of this Parliament and please, next time someone is speaking outside the topic of the agenda, to warn him, because that kind of relaxation of the ruling majority is simply unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u286	Thank you, People's Parliament. I see you feel that I have violated the Rules of Procedure regarding the content of the presentation of the MPs who spoke today. First of all, I have to tell you that we in this Assembly have a certain spirit of democracy and tolerance and, as you have noticed, everyone is allowed today to represent their policy, the policy of the electoral list, first of all, where they are elected, then the political parties to which they belong or parliamentary groups whose members are and everything today, I would say, was in a good spirit of democracy and in quite a relationship with the discussions we have had. Whether you agree with it or not, I don't know, but I know it would bother you, it was necessary for you to hear those statements. You came into this room a minute and a half ago and I'm sure you didn't mind what we said here today, but since you think I broke the Rules of Procedure, I'm obliged to ask you if you want the National Assembly to plead? (Vladan Glisic: Yes. - Yes, you do. Thank you. He'll come out. Now according to the amendment application. (Sandra Christmas: A breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) In order to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will have to delete the list again. I'd like the deputy president of the parliamentary group, "Alexander Vukic - for our children" to sign up. You have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u287	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 103, 104. It doesn't matter, we can call each other. First of all, I ask those present, and I certainly ask them to be as often in the hall as possible to understand the whole spirit of the debate, because it is easy to raise the Rules of Procedure and to jump out of the context of the whole debate that is happening today in this very room. We're a political institution. The House of the National Assembly is a place of democracy and here, regardless of the subject, we can bring out some... Of course, each of us is invited to make certain views of his political party, the political group he belongs to. It's certainly what my colleagues did today and no one has come out of the context of the topic, first of all, and we're talking about national minorities. If we are talking about national minorities, in each amendment each of us had the right to mention Alexander Vukic, because it is Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic who has improved the attitude towards national minorities in every way possible. Each of us had the right to mention President Alexander Vukic, because President Aleksandar Vukic had just visited all the places we talked about today, especially speaking about the Bosniak national minority. If we are talking about the rights and the improvement of the relationship between representatives of national minorities in this room, each of them could stand up and say what SNS is, what it is with its policy, what President Vukic did with his powers in each of the environments where we have national minorities and how their life has been promoted in the real sense of that word. Therefore, do not warn us and do not teach us the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I ask you as someone who is in the Assembly very soon, have little understanding to be and to devote your time to participating in the dialogue, or in a discussion in this room, and only after that can we really talk about whether we are off topic or not. Of course, we have contributed to the dialogue here today, that we have contributed to the discussion and that they have just made it possible for the citizens who listen to us in the transmission, to actually hear how the rights of the national minorities today are greatly improved and how we are certainly calling you... I see you haven't made any amendments to this topic today, so I'm really asking you to do it, because here, talking about amendments, talking about current changes and amendments to the law, talking about each of us having the right to make a certain amendment. It certainly is for everyone who is in this room, so please, and those who have proposed amendments and those who teach us the Rules of Procedure, to be in this room, first and foremost, and then behind that we can discuss the subject, because to discuss the subject, you have to be in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. We, in fact, understand each other perfectly, but since the rules are established, I am obliged to give an appropriate explanation. Articles 103 and 104. The Rules of Procedure would indeed mean that because of what happened, because Mr Glisic had taken advantage of the opportunity to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure to actually replicate the MPs who spoke before him. So some strict, strict application of the rules would mean that, therefore, that time is compensated from the time for the debate of the parliamentary group. However, Mr Glisic does not belong to any parliamentary group, so we cannot apply this provision, but in any case, there is the possibility that, apart from the violations of the Rules of Procedure, he will today address the National Assembly during the time foreseen for the performance and speaking of MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group. Maybe in the follow-up session he'll use the right one. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure for these reasons I've stated. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Sandra Christmas: No. Thank you for that, too. Now the word, according to the amendment, has Nevenko Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u289	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I as a member of the Bulgarian national minority and MPs from the List Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, I decided to apply for a discussion and say a few words on the subject we are discussing today. As a member of the Bulgarian national minority, I would like to say first that in the country of Serbia, according to the last census, there are slightly less than 20,000 members of the Bulgarian national minority. Unfortunately, they are concentrated mostly in the southern and eastern parts of Serbia in the most underdeveloped parts of Serbia. Of course, despite living in very difficult conditions, members of the Bulgarian national minority have always been loyal to their country, they have always sought solutions to their problems in their own home, that is, in their own country. To remind me that when Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic met with the president of the Republic of Bulgaria, Rumen Radev, who was in 2018, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic told the Bulgarian national minority, I quote: "You love Bulgaria, respect Serbia" and Bulgarians in Serbia are doing exactly that. Since I'm from the mountain-mounted area, I'd like to say that we need the Ministry of the Village. It doesn't matter what it's literally called, it's important that it takes care of the problems that people live in the country have, because our villages are empty and completely relaxed. The reason is much, above all very difficult and harsh conditions of life due to the lack of application of machinery and bad infrastructure. We need the Ministry of Child and Family Care. It doesn't matter what it's called, it's important that it takes care of the family, because our end is massively empty. Economic migration caught a galloping wave. Because of the difficult conditions in which people live in the area where I come from, migration is expressed, population is halved. Of course, against global trends you can't. We global trends can't be stopped, but smart state policy can ease a lot. We need the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. No matter what they are literally called, it is important that they take care of minorities and deal with the problems that minorities face. We need dialogue, we need understanding and mutual respect, and we need all of this for co-existence. We need to build a society that will give each individual equal chances, whether it belongs to a majority or to a minority. Only in such a society can we be satisfied, only by giving our children a chance, only by providing a future for our children and future generations in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Costadinova. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come forward under this amendment because it may be the clearest wish of the amendment. When you looked at a little less carefully at the amendments, you said nothing, like any other amendment submitted by the Members of the People. I can't agree with that. These are very serious amendments aimed at portraying Serbia as a state that does not care about its national minorities. That's not an accident. It is not an accident, because whenever Serbia or Aleksandar Vucic is attacked, it is somehow always not a symmetry, but synchronised throughout the region. These attacks come from Montenegro, they come from Croatia, they come from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there must be someone here who, on behalf of the tycoons, will no longer have their own representatives because they boycotted the elections to attack Alexander Vukic and the Republic of Serbia. Look at the amendment yourself. So it's proposed to be called the Ministry of State Administration, local and minority self-government. Who is very little understood in both the state administration and the political system, this means that the advice of national minorities becomes the authority of the government, because the existing state authorities are unable to provide them with the function of members of national minorities. It comes from the party of Suleiman Ugljanin. He thinks we forgot what happened in 2012. I was a national MP who voted to make Sulejman Ugljanin a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and was proposed by the then Prime Minister or Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic, on the initiative of the very SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic. Then Alexander Vucic and SNS were good, and now they're not good because Suljo, when he sat in a minister's car, took over the ministerial cabinet, stopped caring about his countrymen, stopped caring about all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, stopped caring about the city he came from, from the Raska area. He says, "If I am not a minister, there will be unrest, there will be war in Sandzak." Those are his words. Don't let the applicant of this amendment hide it, because here he is trying to run one policy, in our National Assembly, intolerance between Serbs and Bosniaks. They want us to be in a fight again, don't let God argue, not with arguments, but with weapons because I guess they see in it any chance either to come to power in Serbia or to break up and continue what Dragan Gilas and Solak started when they were in power. I wish the applicant of the amendment was finally in the O.R., talking and defending his amendments and finally telling us what he really wanted. The advice of national minorities as they exist in Serbia, with the powers they have, I can say that they are the most modern, and even an example to many democratically developed countries as they should address the issue of national minorities. I would also like to hear from him – if there is no road to its settlement in the Raška region of Bosnjak, is there no citizen of Serbian nationality? If citizens in the Raška area are poor, are they poor only Bosniaks or are they poor and Serbs and everyone else? It is known that they share the same fate together. The way they run their policies, they try to gain some political points through a cheap nationalist story that tends to separatism, counting on that emotional charge with their voters. I'm just asking a question -- what did they do for their fellow citizens, Serbs and Bosniaks and everything else while they exercised power in the Republic of Serbia? One big nothing, so all they have left is a model to offer their voters, their fellow citizens to fight with other peoples and nations. It's a policy that can't succeed, it's a policy that doesn't have a future. Finally, let the gentlemen come out of the past, because if they remain trapped in that past, nothing will do for the future of the Bosniaks or for the future of Serbs and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u292	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. By amendment, MP Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u293	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Albert Kami said nicely that there is nothing more disgusting than respect based on fear. Thus, some representatives of national minorities try to respect their voters, the works of their voters and the grounds for fear of some terrible and dangerous Serbian states, some sort of terrible Serbian hegemony, some sort of terrible Serbian policy that wants to take away all the rights of national minorities, national communities in the Republic of Serbia, anywhere in the world. There is, of course, nowhere to be discussed here, so they can tell us what rights are denied to national minorities in Serbia? What rights? That one member of the national minority, any in Serbia, is not a politician or politician or is not paid by Gilas, Solak and other criminals who have been harassing Serbia for 12 years, none of them are going to come out and tell him what's been denied in Serbia. There isn't. When you talk, and each of us has a neighbor bar that is a member of a national minority, all those people who are loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who respect the Republic of Serbia as a state and have no fear of it, because Serbia allows them everything that allows both the Serb people and any other person, which is to be educated, to live, to create their families in the Republic of Serbia under the same rights and opportunities as those of the Serb people. There's no SNS dilemma for us, we are for the respect of all the rights of national minorities and communities, to extend those rights, to talk to them, not to be blackmailed, not to be insulted by anyone in the world. And we are not ashamed to say to the Serbian state, it is the Serbian state, the state of the Serbian people and all the other people who live in it and want to live in it. So I say the Serbian state has always been open to all those who want to come to it, to visit our country, to get to know our culture, language, our customs, to see what a wonderful Serbian people, who have always fought and sacrificed not only for their own, sprayed people, but also for other peoples in the region. For God's sake, they call the Serbian state a fascist state. Well, the Serbian state has laid down the biggest victims, and Serbs, liberating both surrounding countries in the region and the former Yugoslavia from fascists. Well, the shame of anyone who dares to talk about it and about the Serbian state in such a way as to glue her Fascist label. Of course, why is it necessary to create such a picture of Serbia today and who is in the interest of it? We've heard from some outsiders, but it's also in the interest of those who weren't able to reach that 3% price in the election, and we've made it possible for them, come on, here, to get down to 3%, to try to get into the Assembly. They failed because they boycotted the elections because they were aware that they did not have enough support and justification for Serbian citizens to enter the parliamentary benches. Of course, Serbia needs to be destroyed both from the outside and from the inside. On the inside, the tycoons made big money, led by Gilas, Šolak, those unfortunate Djordjevic and others. They are willing to invest anything to bring down the Serbian state, because the only one broken down and Serbia on their knees is Serbia, which is similar to the tycoons, the one that is similar to those fascists, who would like to harass the state of Serbia again, and who would like that full register, which we have today, to empty, those who do not match the Kovid hospitals that are being created, those who do not respond when the Serbian state welcomes such a pandemic as we have in the world today, those who do not respond to what Serbia is among the best in Europe, when at this point, the stability of the health system. None of that works for them. It doesn't suit them, because every success of Serbia puts them down one scale, one percent down. So today, the Serbian state is something that bothers many who are on that tycoon side. That's why we have synchronised attacks. A colleague, Veroljub Arsic, spoke about those outside, from the former Yugoslavia. We've got synchronised right here. They are one of their representatives through the Assembly and through the false launch of the status and position of national minorities. They give wind to Gilas, Šolak, their media, those who do not know whether they are from Luxembourg or Belgrade, N1 and Nova S, Olji Bećkovic and others, on Sundays at nine, and every day from hour to hour, they spit live and destroy the reputation of the Serbian state, and we certainly will not allow them, of course. Also, the synchronised attack on Serbia does not go through the Assembly alone. It goes on and on from day to day, from hour to hour, and through their media, that the final stage of their impact on Serbia would be the destruction of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic in one way or another, by drawing a target at his head, through what they call not only through social networks, there every idiot can write whatever he wants and that he absolutely does not bear any responsibility for it, but their politicians, their analysts, so-called, independent, their independent journalists, as they call them, every day they call open to the liquidation of Serbian President Alexander Vukic, because that mob sees the only salvation for themselves. The only possibility of survival in Serbia's mafia is that it is not headed by the Serbian state of President Aleksandar Vukic. Now, for that, the biggest dam and the strongest pillar of defense and support for Alexander Vukic is here at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Every day they will hear the words of support to the President of the Republic by the MPs, the people, because they were chosen by the people, because the people behind these people sitting here, the people supported these people, the people gave support to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. I am sure that Serbia led by Alexander Vukic and the government that we will choose these days will remain free. As Pericle said - the secret of freedom rests in courage. We here, SNS MPs, have enough courage and honesty and honesty to be with our president and the state of Serbia with all our strength, with all our hearts, even stronger and even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u294	Thank you. I would now ask the MPs who are currently registered in the electronic system to re-apply their application after 15.00 hours, when they will be allowed to speak. Certainly, Mr. Glisic would like me to invite him to stay with us in the afternoon. There'll be good things to hear and talk about. Now I'm taking a 60-minute break. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the afternoon part of our session. Before continuing with this agenda, you received resignations from the MPs of Dr Nebojša Marjanović, Jasmina Palurović, Dalibor Radicevic, Milos Vučević, Maja Gojković, Branislav Nedimovic, Marija Obradović, Radomer Dimitrovic and Milan Krkobic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly on the examination of these paragraphs, which determined that the resignation of the resignations occurred in the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law of the People's Parliament and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the mandates of these MPs. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the mandate, before the end of the time they were elected, to the MPs Dr Nebojsa Marjanović, Jasmini Palurovic, Dalibor Radicevic, Milos Vučević, Maja Gojkovic, Branislav Nedimovic, Marija Obradović, Radomir Dmitrovic and Milan Krkobic, on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing to discuss this item of the agenda in detail. For word's sake, the first one on this list I've got, Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go, Mr. Copper.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u296	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, I will try to be brief. Of course, it is an uncontestable right, and again, I am sorry that the gentlemen of a parliamentary group who have submitted these amendments that are, unfortunately, unacceptable are not there, but we have talked a lot today at all about the law, of course, that it is an undisputed right and that minority, even to bear one of these, to say the technical shortcomings of the amendment. But in order to protect the right of both the minorities and those parliamentary groups that number six MPs, to protect their right, we need to realize that there is an opposition in this assembly, which we also talked about today. Because for four months, there's a mantra that comes from Gilas who says it's the opposition, it's me, so when I'm not in parliament, there's no opposition. So, four months goes by the story that there's no opposition in parliament. Of course there are opposition in parliament, we have exactly seven opposition MPs, which I am glad we should raise. We'll respect them, it's one whole parliamentary group and one MP that doesn't belong to any of them. I regret to say that these amendments submitted by this parliamentary group, which simply has one, I must say, extreme narrative. When you look at what they're talking about, that's two things. One is extreme nationalism that attacks the majority people, i.e. Itches. We had a chance to hear some stories about some alleged crimes from 20, 30, 40 years ago. It's all completely groundless stories. The other narrative is totally Gilasovski. So, we have to realize that Dragan Gilas, who did not participate in the elections, has today one of his parliamentary clubs and it consists of six of these MPs. Now, why do they agree to be his MP club? I can simply say that this one MP, seventh, he does not belong to Dragan Gilas. Because, we know, we have a testimony from an ex-president of the political party that Mr. Gilas is solving problems. Well, cash credit. So, quick cash, cash problem. I hope that Mr Gilas did not deprive these six MPs, so that is not why they have this other narrative other than this extremely nationalist one, so that they do not protect Dragan Gilas' rights, because they are also a minority. The other thing that's important, Mr. Milicevic is also, I'm very grateful to him, I was talking about it today, he showed a picture. So, in order to protect minorities, we must protect the President of the Republic. Of course, there is now one question that we have heard here today in the congregation. An MP asked us why you're defending Alexander Wolfie? First, because it's necessary. Second, because it's honorable and honest. Thirdly, when during eight years 365 days, every day in those eight years you have dozens of attacks a day against President Vukic and his family, each of his family individually, take that battery and mathematics, these are hundreds of thousands of attacks for all of this time I'm talking about, then we see that someone needs to be defended from these bestial attacks that go to that point to endanger someone's right to live. We're defending him because, you know, when all these bestialities are accumulated that I've been talking about for eight years, because I got a call from a journalist yesterday, and she's asking if it's the same as the threats of Zoran Djindjic? It's not. Zoran Djindjic was threatened for only two years and no one has ever threatened members of the Zoran Djindjic family, and it is incomparable. So when we have this battery of bestiality that lasts for eight years, there is a growing likelihood that some mentally ill person will try to kill a Mr. President of the Republic or a member of his family and that's why we're defending him. So I really don't understand politics, I'm going to end it, these MP groups that have submitted these unacceptable amendments. So they're only there when they have to say something, to state their position, but when they have to listen, because, here, it's already 15.00 hours, and they've been less than an hour. In that they seem to be reminding of Dragan Gilas and that's the end. So, Dragan Gilas, let me remind you, has been in office for six years in the City Assembly since he's no longer good, but he doesn't come to the City Assembly sessions for six years. So these, too, seem to come only for the abbey, eventually when the restaurant opens up, and eventually, as we saw today, when they have something to say and then they're gone. Well, that's not democracy. You have to listen, because at this point we have no representative of the opposition. Here, one comes in, that's commendable. That's it. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u297	Thank you. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u298	Thank you. Dear chairman, honourable fellow MPs, we are witnessing strong blows to Serbia both on the outside and on the inside, because many do not respond to strong and stable Serbia. Fortunately, in Serbia's previous elections, the people said their own and said great about Alexander Vukic's policies and coalition partners and the SNS. Then they started hitting. We know who does these kicks inside, from which tycoon and criminal centres of power come, which my colleagues have spoken more about, but the fact is that when we have a situation here that we have seven opposition MPs, some MPs are trying to bring down the reputation of both the Republic of Serbia and this Parliament. We have had the opportunity to hear from MPs who are now, unfortunately, not present here, who belong to the opposition and share similar attitudes and individual extraparliamentary opposition parties, that the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia are at stake. First of all, that's not true. Why? If there is any respect for the rights of national minorities in the Balkans and Southeast Europe, it is in the Republic of Serbia, and there are no Bosniaks closer than the Serb people, both in Serbia, in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and in all those countries where the Serb and Bosniak people live in harmony. I am only sorry that some media are in the minority, who are telling the truth about what we are saying today, and most of the media in Serbia, while the opposition is talking about some media darkness, is in the hands of tycoons, criminals and those foreign and regional power centres that support the mafia and support all media and political views against President Vukic. But what really hurts me is that we haven't had a chance to see in recent Serbian history, an orchestrated, mental and sick attack on the family of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. They are only guilty because they are the closest relatives to the president of the Republic and the SNS and the team to attack the family of President Vukic, they are not holy or Serbia, they are not holy or family. They also attack three-year-old Vukan, they attack both Daniel and Milic and Andrey, they're only guilty because they're related to the President of the Republic. And the attack on what is happening in parliament, what is happening outside parliament and what is happening in these tycoon media is clear -- the weakening of the position of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic. I am convinced of the power of us, the MPs and the future government of Serbia, that together we will all give even more support to President Vukic, as I said the other day, and that our president, despite these shameful attacks, will have enough power to continue to lead Serbia into a safe and better future, along with all citizens and Serbian and Bosniak nationalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u299	Thank you. The word is Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u300	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, as this is my first address, I would take the opportunity to thank President Alexander Vukic and the SNS for giving us young people a chance to meet for the first time in the parliamentary benches. I'm going to try to do my job, to pawn, like, I believe, and all my other colleagues, as well as my daily conversations with citizens, that trust and justification. As someone who comes from Pirot, a border district in which national minorities live, especially in Dimitrovgrad, where the majority of Bulgaria's nationality is, I had a need to report back today. Sometimes you could hear it – the souther, the sadder it is. But we can't say that today. Serbia is developing evenly. We are witnessing newly built Corridor 10. We're witnessing that in the next period the railways will be reconstructed. Today, I arrived about two and a half hours from Pirot to Belgrade, which took up to four months ago. It's gonna be normal for our kids, but we all know it hasn't been like that until recently. In addition to roads, we are witnessing numerous reconstructed and newly built schools, kindergartens, hospitals, arranged parks, built sports centres. At the time of the Kovid-19 epidemic, which has affected the whole world, including our country, we have brought a series of measures that we can already say today have proved effective. From 100 euros in assistance to all full-time citizens, through assistance to small, medium and micro-enterprises, to assistance to hotelers. That we did well and due to the epidemic also shows the unemployment rate, which today is at a record historical minimum of about 7%. In addition, we also record Europe's largest economic growth. In Serbia, salaries and pensions continued to grow steadily. Already now, the average salary in Serbia is over 510 euros, and we will seek to achieve the goal foreseen by the National Investment Plan – "Serbia 2020-2025", which envisions an average salary of as much as 900 euros by the end of 2025 and an average pension of 440 euros. Everything we did proved to be good because it produced results. We will continue this path by working even further and developing our Serbia even better, faster and stronger. That is why we also care about these three ministries, which are even more systematically able to see the needs of people in the country, which will invest in a family, which represents a pillar of every society, which will take care of the human and rights of national minorities and which social dialogue will be included in political practice. We want Serbia where young people want to live, where all citizens see a safe future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u301	The next speaker is Dragoljub Ackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u302	Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected people of Serbia, were these Serbian, Roma or any other nationality, it is my honor to address you on behalf of a great nation, I will not say national minority, because the people who have 300, 400, 500, or 600 thousand people are not minorities but a majority. At first I would like to thank the man who made it possible for us Roma to be in the circuit and republican congregation, this one, we sit three, two beautiful ladies and I with them to keep them company and try to solve what has not been solved for decades. Many things have accumulated as Roma are concerned, and our work in future times will be that with your help, of course, with your wholehearted help, we all try to solve it as much as possible. At first, I must say that I am a little sad, and a little revolving at the statements of some colleagues who came from the valley and said what they said about their amendments, without thinking that they lived there both Roma and Preshevo, and in Bujanovac, and in Vranj, and in Nis, and everywhere, where some of them throw their eyes. Yeah, the Roma don't think so. I know, I don't speak in mind, for 40 years I've been dealing with these difficult problems of my people. As far as the amendment is concerned, a lot has been said and I wouldn't add anything to it, except what I said before, which is that we Roma are in no way able to agree that Alexander Vukic and this country don't think well of national minorities. You know, I came from the Office of Human and Minority Rights. I've been there five years Deputy Director. I'm a Roma, by the way. I attended the meeting of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights with my colleague today, and two Roma were elected to the meeting and no one transferred anything to us, just in time. I am a man who has counted the last month, two days as many Roma have been elected into various bodies, primarily political, because political integration is very important for the Roma people and I have listed at least a dozen officials of the Roma national minority who have been elected to various city halls or parliaments, which are in the ranks of the president, such as in Obrenovac and some others, in the rank of vice presidents, as it is here in Belgrade and elsewhere. There's a party credit for what I do now. I don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure, I want to commend the SNS and its president and tell them on behalf of all these 40 years how much I've been doing this one great thank you, because so far I haven't had a chance, although many think that I was at least one six times a national MP. I've never been a peoples MP and I've never been to political office, and everyone's been patting me on the back since I was nineties and so forth. There, one man dared to propose me and a few more of my colleagues. By adopting this Ministry Act, we will get a lot, and especially we Roma will get something we really need. I used to say that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights was a necessary thing, and at the time when Rasim was headed, we worked very well together, and it was done, and there was a lot of fasting. Then some times came when such a ministry did not exist. I wasn't very happy, and many Roma weren't too happy, but the time has come for the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, I now call it, shortened, restored, and to begin to perform its function. What is his function unnecessary here is to present to you, with serious political heads. You know, everybody, and we Roma especially need to pay attention to that. We have to for the simple reason, because we have been taught history and the past that was very difficult, which forced us to act sometimes and inappropriately, sometimes in a way that doesn't suit us either. Now is the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, for the Roma voice to be heard in both the Serbian Parliament and the AP Vojvodina Assembly and in many places where it has not been heard so far. Why can't it be heard that some of those who held the previous government and who had passed previous laws on the ministries made previous choices of the rules, had only voters among the Roma people, and not those who would be chosen. We've had the opportunity to be chosen and I'm happy about it. A few hundred thousand Roma, again I will not say the exact information, because none of us are sure of it, in the next few years, how long this assembly will have the opportunity to hear about its problems, but it will also be possible for all those who need to hear and all those who need to decide. I'm in favour of hearing a Roma voice, too, that Rom lifts two fingers when it comes to making decisions, to help where he needs to go and do what he has to do. We, ladies and gentlemen, have been together for the last six to eight hundred years with the Serbian people and with everyone else, of course, and have done all that is to the benefit of the country that we all call our country and our Serbia. Our Serbia will remain as long as there is a single Roma life in it, and I hope it will increase, because these new ministries that are formed will probably pay a little more attention to the Roma population that is to be multiplied and that is indeed multiplying, sometimes even more than others would like and loved. We're multiplying, and that's what I suggest to all the other nations. Let it be for them, if two other things be learned from the Roma, let them be multiplied and sing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u303	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u304	Thank you. I'd like to do the amendment. My colleagues said before me all those things that I feel the same way because our state of Serbia and all of us and our President Vukic showed that in every part of Serbia, we feel the same way about every man. Now, Corona, the problems of people's health where hospitals, upgrades, provides funds for each of our people living in Serbia in the most part of our Serbia. Finally, we, from small backgrounds, have representatives of national minorities, whether they are Roma, whether they are Bosniaks, whether it is another national minority, does not matter, we are all the same and we want to provide every man with the same conditions. Friends who do agriculture, it doesn't matter if it's in any part of Serbia, we're all in a branch under the clear sky, and that's why we have to keep doing it, for every man to fight, and this kind of thing now when someone says that we now want some things to be wrong, that national minorities don't have enough rights or reduced rights, that's not true, because we witnesses when the elections were in Bujanovac were finally local elections, where four Albanian parties rule most of them, where we are the United Peasant Party, whose president I am, were together in the coalition with SNS, where we have committees. These are people who are good hosts and we wanted to work both now and earlier in the interest of all citizens, but it doesn't matter if it's a national minority or our Serb people. We all wanted the same thing in Bujanovac, as well as in other places, to participate, to work, to provide better living conditions for both the village and the city. The future government, which will be formed in two days, or the day after tomorrow, will have the possibility for the first time to have the Ministry of the Village, a ministry that will give the opportunity to leave a higher accent, to provide better living conditions. Today we had the establishment of a Committee on Agriculture, we chose the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijan Risticevic, and we need to work together, to be in each part of our Serbia as people, as MPs, to talk to people. We've been to Bujanovac before as a Committee on Agriculture, we've been to Novi Pazar. We talked and visited agricultural land. It doesn't matter if it's the property of any owner. These are the people who do agriculture, who suffer, who have the same needs to ensure in each part the same conditions of life. Therefore, the village ministry will have the opportunity to work, the Ministry of National Minorities and dialogue will do the same, the Ministry of Demography and the fight for children, for young people will work. So this government that will be formed will be a government that will really contribute to ensuring the same conditions of life in each part of Serbia. We also had a child rights committee where the president of the assembly, Mr. Dacic, was with us. And now I'm going to say, I'm on that board as a member, and I used to be a member of the board, saying that we have to stand up for those kids in the country, kids living in the country to provide them with at least the same conditions of life as those kids living in the city. When we talk about all these problems, we must put an apostrophe on this committee too because the category of children living in the country must also be known tomorrow to some new laws that need to speed up the development and better life of all our people living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I would also like to thank the President of the Assembly and all of you here because we are all here with a desire to ensure better living conditions for every man and for those who live in the country and who live in the village and for those who live in the city. It's a good thing this amendment isn't accepted because we all think the same thing, we want it to be good for every man so anywhere there is any nationality to be. Once again, I, as president of the United Peasants' Party, will support the proposals of all laws because I think that the Serbian state led by President Vukic has the opportunity to be stronger and better and this has been proven in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u305	Thank you. The word is Ivan Fishman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u306	Dear President, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on the first day of the assembly's session in the new assembly, we heard mildly not exactly friendly remarks from the SDA party's respected counterparts, who refused everything and opposed all proposals by the ruling majority, making some flat-rate accusations that do not have much to do with the truth. Representatives of the same party whose president has been trying for many years to break up the co-existence of Serbs and our Bosniak brothers, all to gain cheap political points, although they have been living in brotherhood and consent for centuries until some politicians who are doing their own little interests try to bring unrest among them. I would not say much about the professionality of the president of the party, except to say that he suggested that they stop and stop wearing protective masks in the pandemic and the flow of pandemics and fight Kovid, as he said to them a small amount of poison or certain chemical substances that would increase the mortality of the citizens who wear them, directly affecting the health and safety of their citizens. Not to mention that often in the middle of Belgrade, in the middle of Serbia, it was said that the fascist state, that Sandzak and others alone should be separated from some familiar ideas and phrases so as not to break up the animal in that territory, after which it could be cheaply manipulated by acting as pasture from the old days. Our party's policy and our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is such that there is no difference between Serbs, Bosniaks and all national minorities living in Serbia's space. So this wouldn't be just a politically correctly colored phrase that I said, I'll say some numbers. In all the crisis affecting our country, which we inherited after 2012 when we came to power, a lot of money was invested in the region where Serbs and Bosniaks live, much more than it was invested for decades before we came to power. There is one of the most modern diagnostic centers, there are two new schools, a very improved road infrastructure and easier life for citizens from those areas. Also, what burned my ears and whose impression I cannot take away, which is that a respected colleague asked Mr. Foreign Minister then, and now the Honorable President of the Assembly, in his first sentence, to apologize for the crimes committed by the Serbs against Bosniaks. I must say that since 2012, since she came and took over the leadership of this country, this authority has often pointed out that it condemns every Serb crime against any innocent victim in wars in the former Yugoslavia's space. It is primarily out of our shame that Serbs were honest, brave, respected and respected warriors who always waged defensive wars, not to say that they had even had respect for their enemies, I would mention also General von MacKenzen, who said in 1915 and ordered that a monument be erected to Serb warriors in the Kosutnjak. Another fact that supports this claim is that President Vukic, aware of all this I said earlier, is that in one knightly, honorable and fair way, he goes from the most sincere intentions of 2015 to Potocara, where he will bow down to the shadows of the innocent people, but not as did former rulers from some previous authorities who, when they had nothing to offer to their people in terms of better living conditions, better wages, better infrastructure, any improvement in their lives, so they apologize in a complicit manner to whom they needed and who didn't need it. His intentions were sincere and honorable. I would only ask my colleagues – what happened then and how could Mr. Vukic go then? He could have lost his head. I would also like to ask – why not mention Serbian victims when they are so honest and remember their own, are they less valuable, do more than 8,600 Serbs who have lost their lives in the war, in Sarajevo from 1991 to 1995? Or what about the crimes in Podrinj and the villages of Bratunac, Zvornik, Milic, Vlasenica and others, where more than 3,000 Serbs were killed during the religious holidays of martyrdom, written by my colleague, Miodrag Lint. Our party, led by President Vukic, has done everything to show that we care for genuine essential reconciliation, trust, co-operation and peace in the future, not only with Bosniaks, but with all the peoples living in this territory, but primarily for one reason, to leave our generations a happy and carefree future burdenless with our generations. Although we suffer attacks from all sides of the media every day, from joint tycoon-mafian groups, from various centres of power in the country and abroad, we cannot lie to an honest and honest people who find these grotesque accusations ridiculous, because on their own case he sees that he lives better every day, that every day, every month, he has better conditions for life, to live in a better environment, to make it easier for employment and for various other benefits, this power allows him. What we are going to help President Vukic and SNS foreigners, as well as our coalition partners, is that we are going to stand silently, suffer all the criticisms that come from these circles, work, the next thought of the great Vladika Nikola Velimirovic who said – he is silent and doing a good deed, bury him under a stone and he will only make a language and declare himself to the generations. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u307	Thank you. I've already said it, but the service warns me that I have to say it in formal form. In accordance with Articles 97 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. At the same time, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the vote can be expected to be around 6:00 p.m. for information on the continued dynamics of our work. The next speaker is Myodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u308	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of facts clearly show that Serbia is the leading state in Europe in respect of the rights of national minorities. Serbia respects all international standards, international conventions regarding respect for the rights of national minorities. We're a country where we have 27 national councils of national minorities and I think that's why we're champions all over the world. We have a series of local self-governments where, without any problems, the languages of national minorities are freely used. I think there's a local self-government where we use the language of national minorities 10, 15 and more. Serbia is doing everything in its power. So, what with President Vukic sending a clear message that he wants peace, stability, reconciliation in the former Yugoslavia's space. However, the facts show that this is going very hard. Here, we will set an example of the relations of Bosniak politicians in Sarajevo with the extended hand of official Belgrade. I will mention one in a series of events that took place this year, July 20th of this year, Bakir Izetbegovic, the president of the Party of Democratic Action and the leader of the Bosniak people, was together with Bosniak presidency member Gferika Dzaferovic, with the head of the Islamic community in BiH, Hussein Kavazovic in Kozarac near Prijedor. What did Bakir Izetbegovic say on that occasion? First, Bakir Izetbegovic said -- a genocide of Bosniaks began in Krajina and culminated in Srebrenica. So, according to Bakir Izetbegovic and Bosniak politicians, there was no genocide against Bosniaks only in Srebrenica, it also happened in Prijedor, Key, Sanski Most, Bratunac and several other local self-governments. He then said there were many genocides over the Bosniak people in history by the Serb people. Secondly, Bakir Izetbegovic then said one of the most brutal lies and accusations, a fiction, that the Serbian people must be concerned because there are many Serbs who are prone to killing Bosniaks. Then Bakir Izetbegovic said he cannot regret that Serbia was not convicted by the International Court of Justice in The Hague in 2007 for genocide. Also, it is very regrettable that 10 years later, in 2017, the review of the genocide suit against Serbia failed. And that he will continue to seek, as far as he can, to restart the initiative to review the genocide ruling against Serbia. On other occasions Bakir Izetbegovic and other Bosniak politicians spoke and said Republika Srpska was created on genocide, mass crimes, ethnic cleansing of the Bosniak people, that Serbia has committed aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is in no way equal to the aggressors, so Serbia, the Serb people with defenders, so to speak. The BiH army and the Bosniak people. What are these messages from Bakir Izetbegovic and other Bosniak politicians? These are hate messages, exclusives, and messages are directed against peace, stability, against the common life of Serbs and Bosniaks. These are messages that further raise tensions and deepen divisions between the Serb and Bosniak people. On several occasions also the Bosniak people's religious head in BiH, Husein Kavazovic said there is no reconciliation between Serbs and Bosniaks until Serbia and the Serb people recognise a false and non-existent genocide in Srebrenica. My personal opinion is as hard as President Vukic has tried, and I know that he is sincere in his intention and wants to reconcile two peoples, I don't think it can succeed because there is no readiness, at least on this day, by the Bosniak political, cultural, religious elites to face the wrong policy of Ali Izetbegovic, to reject the war policy of Ali Izetbegovic whose goal was to create ethnically pure Muslim territory from which all Serbs would be expelled, and what little remains would be citizens of the fourth, fifth order. There is no, we do not have in Sarajevo any relevant political party of the Bosniak people who would be willing to compromise, which would not come from these false, faceless inventions and accusations against Serbia and the Serb people. It is clear that officially Sarajevo has never honestly accepted the Dayton Peace Agreement. It is clear that Bosniak politicians hope that by day with the help of certain centres in the international community they will be able to achieve their ultimate goal, and the ultimate goal is to abolish Republika Srpska and create a unitary Muslim BiH. We know that somewhere since the end of the war, by 2005, by 2006, the high representative in BiH has been an instrument of certain Western centres of power and with the support of Bosniak politicians, or more than 80 competencies of Republika Srpska in the field of defence, security, finance. We know that the BiH Constitutional Court is used as an instrument to attack Republika Srpska. Which is the structure of the BiH Constitutional Court. The BiH Constitutional Court has nine members. Two members are from the Bosniak order, two from the Croatian order, two from the Serb order and three from the foreign country. You are practically all strategic decisions made by revoted judges from the order of the Serb people, and on certain occasions from the order of the Croatian people. So, decisions are always made by consensus of three foreign judges and two Bosniak judges. So five to four or seven to two. We have vandejton categories, we have the BiH judiciary, the prosecution and the BiH court that are not foreseen at all by the Dayton Peace Agreement. They are now a new instrument of pressure on the Republika Srpska and the Serbian people. I spoke in the principled part of the debate that both the prosecution and the BiH court are an ethnically motivated institution whose aim is not justice, whose goal is not to punish all those who committed war crimes. Bosniak politicians have come from the assumption that there were some small, individual crimes against Serbs, but Serbs are the main culprits, they have again committed genocide, mass ethnic cleansing, mass crimes, and Republika Srpska must not exist. Serbia strongly advocates a consistent respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement. On the Dayton Peace Agreement, the original Dayton Peace Agreement of BiH consists of two entities. If we translate this into daily language, BiH is essentially a confederate, a state union consisting of two states of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, consisting of three Serb, Bosniak and Croat peoples. The Bosniak elite has never accepted, I repeat, an honest Dayton Peace Agreement. I think we must advocate precisely for the sake of peace, stability in the Western Balkans that we should return to the original Dayton Peace Agreement. All 80 transferred responsibilities from Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH have been transferred in an illegal, illegal and violent manner. The Dayton Peace Agreement makes it clear that all decisions on the possible transfer of competences to BiH level must be made exclusively by agreement and consent of the legitimate representatives of the Republika Srpska Federation of BiH. None of these 80 responsibilities have been transferred in accordance with this principle set out in the Dayton Peace Agreement. It is difficult to be a Serb in the Federation of BiH. We heard colleagues here, some colleagues who spoke on the subject. So, Sarajevo only talks about the genocide of Republika Srpska, an ethnically cleansed Republika Srpska from Bosniaks, and the Federation of BiH is not a topic. I repeat again in the Federation of BiH, 600,000 Serbs have lived, and now less than 50,000 live on the list since 2013. Over half a million Serbs were expelled from the Federation of BiH area. How do the remaining Serbs live in the Federation of BiH? The main problem is discrimination by the competent state authorities in the part of the legislation. Of the 10 cantons in four cantons, the Serbian people are not constructive. It's constructive there. It's a dead letter on paper. I'll give you an example. Is it possible in Serbia that any national minority does not have the right to education in its own language? It doesn't exist. Imagine that some national minority in Serbia does not have that right. Well, the entire international community and the OSC and the Council of Europe and the EU would rise and say, "Look at this Serbia not to let a national minority use its native language." In the Federation of BiH, in Croatia it is a normal thing. Here, just two examples. An example of Glamoch municipality, where Serbs, according to the latest census, make up close to 50%. Serbian children have no right to go to school and learn their native Serbian. They can only define themselves between Croatian and what they call Bosnian. I still can't understand that I understand what the Bosnian language means. This is the Bosniak people. I guess he should speak Bosniak, but, well, they said they call that language Bosnian. I think it's a clear trend what it's all about. And now Serbian children in Glamoc must determine whether to learn Croatian or Bosnian. It's the same thing in Bosnian Petrov. Also part of the Bosnian Petrovic municipality is part of the Bihac-based UN-Sancanton. Serbian children in Bosnian Petrovac also cannot learn Serbian. And what do parents do, Serbian returnees? They send their children to the municipality of Drinic. So it is now a small part of the former Bosnian Petrovic pre-war municipality belonging to Republika Srpska. So they can't learn Serbian in Bosnian Petrovac. I think that these are important things, that we have to talk about these things and insist that Serbian children everywhere in the region and the Federation of BiH, and in Croatia must have the right to learn, to school in their native language and that it is a civilization standard and that it is a perfectly normal thing for the Republic of Serbia. I want to do it again in the end. I don't think there is any readiness, absolutely no readiness for 25 years after the end of the war among Bosniak politicians and the Bosniak elite for genuine reconciliation and relations of mutual respect between the Serb and Bosniak people, between Serbia and BiH. There is no willingness to reject war politics, there is no willingness to prosecute war crimes, there is no willingness to accept the sincere Republika Srpska, to accept honestly the Dayton Peace Agreement, to punish all those who committed war crimes. However, the Republic of Serbia should continue to insist on mutual respect and respect relations, but I think Serbia must, in principle, talk about it in the part of the debate to be an active factor in assessing war crimes. Serbia must no longer allow certain NGOs here to give a finger and determine which honourary Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, fighters will be prosecuted for the third, fifth time before the justice of the Republic of Serbia. We're all standing on the stand. I personally, that anyone who committed war crimes should answer. The vast majority of officers, senior officers, Republika Srpska fighters, the Republika Srpska provinces fought with honor, courage and integrity for their people and respected all international conventions of war and, above all, respected their own tradition. So, we can no longer allow our fighters to process, our officers to process, and we must make one step forward that the time has finally come for the numerous crimes against our people to be met by members of, so-called, the armies of BiH, the Croatian Army, members of the Croatian Council, the defences and many different paramilitary Muslim and Croatian formations that worked during the war period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u309	Thank you. This concludes the debate under this amendment. The 12th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic, and Ardend Bajrami. You have received the opinion of the proposing representative on the amendments submitted and reports of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national message from Sandra Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u310	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for the amendment to human and minority rights. Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I address you for the first time and this time on behalf of the people I represent. These are people of Roma nationality. I am proud to point out that I am one of them. We know that Rome is following a bad picture, but I hope that bad picture will be removed. Thanks to the president of Serbia, and the president of the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandr Vukic, who hears about the people of this national minority, has made it possible to find someone who is these nationalities on the list, we have testified that a lot has been done on the issue of the adoption of the Law on Discrimination, that every man who is different colors of skin, faith, feels like an equal member of this society. Just because President Aleksandar Vukic proposed three new ministries, one of which is a ministry of human and minority rights, I would also like to commend the choice for the new ministers, the representation of women in the government, new experts. I also take the opportunity to commend the selection of new young people in parliament who will represent their city, municipality, present problems and effectively come to a solution with the help of the new government. We all have to fight together to eradicate racism. Our beautiful country of Serbia is a land of love, peace, tolerance and there is no place of hatred, racism, violence and fascist ideology. We are sure that our country is able to ensure that every citizen of Serbia feels secure and calm, without fear of his own safety and security of his family. I wouldn't waste any more time with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Jokovic, and I congratulate you on your first presentation in this session. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u312	Thank you, Your Honor. It's about Article 12, so I'll deal first with the essence of what's been proposed. The amendment therefore requires the removal of the ministry's competences regarding the situation and the exercise of the competence of national councils and national minorities. So, that there is no control over their work, even though their choices and responsibilities are financed from the budget. The fact that some national minorities have more electricity and work hard for each other, it's difficult to function, it's their internal problem. But it doesn't make sense for the state to fund anything without being able to know what it's funding, how it finances and how it's being spent. I want to believe that their goal wasn't any manipulation or abuse. In the explanation given, I think they wrote that it was meaningful. What's the point? The purpose is not to check them and I fully support the position of the legislator of this law to reject this amendment. In accordance with this amendment, I'd like to do a parallel and a two-way diet with something that happened before a certain period of time, and it's about the activities of the Money Laundering Authority. In fact, you know, before the law, everyone is equal, and the institutions of the system are set up under the law. Why would anyone be disturbed by the work of independent bodies, why would anyone be disturbed by the work of independent institutions, unless there's something suspicious behind individual or collective dissatisfaction, something we don't know? When the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering controlled the financial transactions of the ministries, it was fine and everyone supported it, the most opposition, it was the Authority's jurisdiction and we had absolutely no problem with it. But when this same Agency for the Prevention of Money Laundering, I repeat, within the limits of its powers and its responsibilities, requires data for the work of individuals, for the work of the association, less or more associations and individuals who are close to individual opposition circles, it is God's criminalization that powers the immaculately clean and unsullied associations and individuals. Then we come to the situation that, with all this, a standing matrix shows up by the great opposition Dragan Gilas and raises his voice against such a god-awful crime. Too much demagogy, too much politics in these organ and body convictions that only carry out their duty in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. If Gilas is pure, if these independent institutions, or if these individuals and organisations, the NGO are doing everything in accordance with the law, then why not bring everything out transparently to the public, just as the Government did, that is, how did the ministries within the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It is obvious that there are double arches for them, so the authorities are obliged to submit to control, but the obligation does not have Gilas and these others, as I would say, rebels against the responsible and legal work of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists. The Serbian government, especially Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, has proven by their actions that they respect the laws of this state and the institutions of the system, so it is really not clear why, let's say, Gilas, his protégés, that circle of people working with him, would be excluded from respect for the law and state institutions. Loyalty to his country, which is exhibited by the vast majority of Serbian citizens, should be a role model for Gilas and for those he supports, but it is their mirror that they will finally have to look at. Once again, I think that the motionary is absolutely right when he says that this amendment should not be accepted, and I just wanted to do a progression, that is, to underline the parallel of this amendment with something that happened before a certain period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u313	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u314	Mr. Vice-President, as an authorised representative of the motion, I accept the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u315	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The 13th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. You have received the opinion of the proposer's representative on the amendments submitted, the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. I'll be very brief. I would like to begin by saying that I propose that this amendment be rejected and that I agree with all that argument that also prompted the proposed representative to reject the proposed amendment of the group of MPs you have read. I am sorry that the MPs who have proposed this amendment are not in the room, that we should try to hear some argument in this regard why this amendment should be accepted. My opinion is that when it comes to an amendment relating to the Ministry of the Interior, it is actually an attempt, a very perfidious attempt, to accuse the Republic of Serbia as someone who has no hearing about the issues of persons belonging to a particular national minority, in this case it is an Albanian national minority, as we see from the amendment's proposal that the employment of members of national minorities is particularly apostrophe and the alignment of the structure of employees with the population structure in populated areas. Mr. Kamberi, like Mr. Imamovic, his colleague from the same parliamentary group, very unprincipled parliamentary groups, are trying this way to impose a topic that does not really exist. Repeat that I regret that they are not there, to hear where in Serbia national minorities have any problem, in which area, in which area, in which segment, in which company, in which institution, in which state body of any national minority has any problem, what right do national minorities in Serbia have today? I'm sorry they're not here, let's hear something from their argument. When we talk about the Ministry of the Interior, they should have known that the criteria for becoming a member of the Ministry of the Interior were not whether it was an Albanian or a Roma or a Serb or a Hungarian or a member of any other national minority. So I think it's extremely wrong to perceive things in this way, to declare the alleged threat of a certain national minority by perhaps not being, in someone's opinion, sufficiently represented in a state body, in this case, as I said, the Ministry of the Interior. Someone to be employed at the Ministry of the Interior, the criteria for this is purely professionality, therefore, not nationality, but exclusively whether it meets the needs of the law. The very fact that in some municipality, I will refer here to some municipalities such as Presevo, Bujanovac, municipalities where a certain national minority represents the majority, the very fact that, in the municipality of Presevo, Albanians have most of the talks on representation and state bodies, it also says that they are represented in the Ministry of the Interior. No one from Belgrade will leave to be a police officer in Presevo, but it will be a man from Presevo. I really don't think it's necessary to open these topics, try to raise tension in a perfidious way, try to create an atmosphere of intolerance and mistrust. When we talk about multiethnicity and when we talk about the representation of all nations, I have to ask, and what prevented local self-government in southern Serbia, therefore, Presevo or Bujanovac from breaking one rule that has been in force since 2002 on Serbian representation, in this case of minorities, in that municipality. Since 2002, there has been a rule for all national minorities to be represented by local authorities. After 18 years of the Bujanovac municipality decided to break that good rule that was in force, I'll repeat 18 years? What's the problem? Why are Serbs in this case expelled from local self-government? What happened? A coalition agreement has already been agreed. I will remind you that no party has won an absolute majority in the Bujanovac municipality elections. The Serbian Progressive Party won 10 seats, as well as the strongest Albanian party. These are all questions that the gentlemen of this amendment could answer and I'm sorry they're not. On the other hand, I feel the need to notice that when we get some grudges, criticisms from that side, so the promoters of this amendment come, we can't hear anything affirmative, we can't hear anything nice happen somewhere. Informing myself a little bit I came across that in May this year, so it wasn't so long ago, it was months ago that Serbian and Albanian police officers in the joint action broke through a new path to the church in the village of Oraovica near Presevo. So isn't this something that's affirmative, isn't this something that we all need to promote, isn't this the best possible example of multiethnicity? Who needs it today in 2020 if it's an Albanian, if it's a Serb, if someone needs this much to participate in something, if someone has a quota like that, a quota like that? Who needs that? Who needs to challenge division, and I'm sure neither the gentlemen who have proposed this amendment have the support of their people. And that's what the election results showed unequivocally. So here's an example of how Serbian and Albanian police officers in the joint action can break through a new path to the church in the village of Oraovica. This news came out on a number of portals. This news was read by people. This is known and this is not the first example. A few of these good examples have been in the past. Once again, I underline the lack of the amendments in today's debate that they have no arguments and that this is an attempt, therefore, in a very perfidious way to open a subject that does not exist and that Serbia is unfairly accused of something that is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u317	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Just information. The remaining time for the debate of the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children is just over 23 minutes. The remaining time to discuss the SPS parliamentary group is 8 minutes and 5 seconds. The word is Mr. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u318	That's enough, Mr. Orlic. Thank you. I agree entirely with what Mr Markovic was talking about, and I think that this whole debate, regardless of the amendments being proposed, is actually saying that we didn't come here to deal with politics, but that we very systematically analysed the amendments that have been tabled, no matter who submitted them and that we are going out with the facts why we believe that the promoter is right and did not accept the proposed amendments. When it comes to a specific amendment to Article 13. The bill, as Mr Markovic said, refers to the MUP and the amendment requires that the structure of employees in the MUP be brought into line with the national population structure, it is hiring members of national minorities to agree with their number in the population structure. This question is sensitive to us, but the MUP is a state body, a republican jurisdiction, not local self-government, it's common knowledge. In addition, there are multinational police, i.e. employed are members of all national minorities in all environments where they live. It should be borne in mind that sensitive public order and peace and border police affairs are at stake where it is important to be educated, trained, loyal to their country, that there are no failings, that citizens and Kosovo are double-registered, therefore, without outlining that residence documents have been issued in municipalities in the demarcation zone, thus illegally changing the structure of the population. As part of this amendment, although this does not apply to this article, it does refer to Article 15. The foreign ministry is asking for the Diaspora Co-operation Administration and Serbs in the region to be called – the Office for Co-operation with citizens of the Republic of Serbia to fund co-operation with their diaspora. This is unacceptable because national minorities co-operate through their national councils with their countries of origin, which provides them with the protection of national and cultural identity, also their countries of origin and have their forms of co-operation with members of their people in the diaspora. Serbia has a national obligation to co-operate with its diaspora and the associations of Serbs in the region, such as their countries of origin. We do not have a constitutional obligation to co-operate with all citizens of Serbia around the world. And as for the police, it can't be said that the police are one-national in these mixed environments and there's no and there's no key, there's no quota. That doesn't mean anyone's rights are compromised. If we talk about why, and we are talking in general about the presence in some municipalities, counterpart Markovic spoke, mentioned the Presevo municipality, mentioned the Bujanovac municipality, it seems to me that Medvedja. Here's one particular piece of information for the Presevo municipality. If you're already looking for some rights, then why in 2011 boycotted the list in the country where you live, and with full right today you're looking for your rights. So that's when 3080 residents are listed, and there are 74.5% of Albanians, 13.5% of Serbs and 8.8% of Roma. So we fully agree with the proposal's representative that this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u319	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, already back a few of my colleagues at the beginning of their discussion always finds or asks where are the applicants of these amendments we are discussing. If anyone thinks they are not there by chance, I must reassure him, because the applicants Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardjan Bajrami, six MPs, none of the six MPs who have submitted the amendments are present in the hall to discuss their amendments. Does that tell you anything? It tells me that their party president Suleiman Ugljanin is now taking orders from Gilas and Solak, that these MPs should no longer be in the O.R. There's a lot of reason. One is to show the citizens of Serbia and the rest of the world that the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia and this Parliament are being violated, although we have two vice-presidents of the National Assembly who belong to national minorities, but that is their goal. The second goal is to show that there is no democracy in the National Assembly, that we live at a time of autocracy and that the rights of those they support are not respected by the future government of the Republic of Serbia. It's all for one of the most important reasons. I mentioned it when we elected the President of Parliament. That's when I said that in this assembly, no MP would ever pass any law by measure and orders given by tycoons, as it was before. Now they're trying to destroy Parliament's reputation in one of these ways. That there is co-operation between them and the tycoon of Solak and Gilas, you can also see in the attacks against the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. Serbia's president has pledged an unconditional fight against organised crime and corruption. Who answered first and attacked President Alexander Vukic immediately? Just Gilas, Solak and the media they control. Now I ask the question, I understand, and I know that these two tend to be prone, especially when they exercise power or have influence over power, various financial marifettes, abuses and violations of the law to come up with enormous amounts of money, but now I am asking the full right and question – do they also work with organised crime to bring down Serbian President Alexander Vukic? Do they co-operate and work together on this goal with groups of people who have killed Serbian citizens, citizens of other countries in the territory of the Republic of Serbia who are involved in drug trafficking, arms smuggling, slave smuggling? Are these the associates of Dragan Gilas and Solak? Because the model and the key to each other's struggle against Alexander Vukic is the same and their common goal, so don't be surprised if they have co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u321	Thank you. The 20th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. The word is from the MP Nikola Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u322	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members of the People, Amendment 5 of Article 20, which was submitted by the United Valley Parliamentary Group – SDA Sandzak has just indicated that they do not care about the family, at least not as well and as well as we want, and do not have such a good picture of how to take care of the village, but that is why the previous amendments they have submitted require that only national minorities be mentioned everywhere. Today when I heard Mr. Shucal, I would agree with him that, God forbid, national minorities living in Croatia living in the Federation have the same status as national minorities in Serbia. That's why I don't want to support this amendment, and I also support the ministry law. The ministry law as proposed creates a basis for the smooth functioning of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important that such a proposal introduces three new ministries whose work will directly affect the improvement and resolution of the problems of Serbian citizens -- the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, the Ministry of Family and Demography, as well as the Ministry of Village Care that will best surround the effective functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Given that I come from central Serbia, from the center of Pomorava County, where a large number of people are currently engaged in agriculture, I would especially point out the importance of the Ministry of Care for the Village, which will deal in the most direct way with the village and the problems of our peasants, i.e. their solution. Also, given that Serbia is a highly rural country and that nearly half of the population lives in the country, the establishment of such a ministry is the right move. Otherwise, the peasant has made a huge contribution to Serbia through history and to this day, and at times when it has been difficult for the economy and today when we are building full steps forward. Also, it's the peasant who brought out everything that's important, everything that's important for agriculture, and that's why we have exports of about three billion dollars in this year. The biggest problem is to reduce the number of people in Serbia and that migration, and not just to move abroad, but to move from village to town. Our President, Aleksandar Vukic, has spoken of it several times and pointed out – by reviving the village, we will fix such a picture, a demographic picture of our country, and we will reduce the trend of reducing the number of people in rural areas. The government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed done much in the past to stop such migration and this trend. The resuscitation of cooperatives is a great way, and the government and the competent ministry have worked successfully from 2017 to 2020 and should continue in the coming period, as cooperatives are the finest and fastest form of employment of people from the village and with such practice we must continue. So, for example, in the municipalities of Pomorava County, from which I come, the Rekovac and Despotovac, has done a lot. In Rijeka, as well as the Despotovac, miles of rural roads have been paved, too. Medical and medical facilities have been reconstructed. Rekovac is an example of where it was good in rural areas and where the Ministry of Agriculture can be involved and even more helpful. Let me remind you, in Rekovac, 80% of the population lives and works right out of agriculture. A similar situation is also in Despotovac, also in Svilinc, where it is also worth investing in agriculture. In Paracino, we also have a new government that has come out of one darkness that has ruled there for years and is certainly ambitious and that, on the issues of agricultural promotion, it will work maximum. Jagodina has 52 villages and almost half of the total population lives in the country, where there are good conditions for life and work, but there is always room to make all of this even better in the co-operation of our local self-government and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Good roads, infrastructure, developed health care, agricultural cooperatives will keep peasants on the ground, that is, in the country. There is nothing less important than the Ministry of Family Care and Demography, as President Aleksandar Vukic himself has repeatedly stressed that Serbia, as well as the countries in the environment, are now facing a reduction in the number of people with a decline in birth and youth outflow. That is why this ministry is very important in order to realise many of the state's activities, as well as the plan of our President Aleksandr Vukic Serbia in 2025. It is also important for the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. I would end by saying that I fully support this law, that the citizens of the Pomorava County also, because the Ministry Act should be supported, it is in the best interests of every citizen and creates one assumption of the impeccable functioning of all segments of our society, and especially when we are facing challenges from the pandemic of the coronary virus, to the preservation of economic stability, to the fight for the preservation of our Kosovo and Metohija and, of course, the fight against crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u323	I thank and congratulate you on your first presentation in the National Assembly. The 23rd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. The word has its people's MP Zoran Tomic, and the remaining time for the debate of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children", 11 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u324	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will talk about Amendment 6, but I will also refer to the previous amendment, where the applicants who are not here in the hall are, and I completely doubt that they will be in voting time, which speaks enough about their seriousness and desire to make some constructive contribution to this whole debate, where they suggest that the two ministries actually join in one, with a standard argument that this is more meaningful and with budget savings. I want to say that when it comes to the budget, there is no need to worry, because the reforms that have been implemented since 2014 when the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic, who was not popular, but we know that they were necessary, have produced results that we have stable finances today, that we have never had a higher budget and that the costs are always rational, justified and have results behind them. Also, when we talk about certain decisions, it is not enough just to consider the spending side, but also to look at the other side, and these are the effects that are being achieved, and certainly that the effects with these three new ministries that have been submitted to this law will be many times bigger, but the proposals that the proposings have made here, because they are actually being formed for a reason, and these are the problems that the country that President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have noticed and what was even in the previous period, and now the new ministries will get an additional momentum that they can continue to be solved. It is very important to take care of the village, because the village has great potential that we have yet to use, not only in terms of investment through agriculture, which is really excellently achieved through the Ministry of Agriculture, but also in the development of ethno-tourism, educational tourism, but also in support of the ideas of young people and ways for these young people to stay in the country, to work there, and by raising new infrastructure we will better connect all parts of Serbia, there will be new industrial zones and opportunities for these young people to realise their actions and ideas, not only in the segment of agriculture, but also in the segment of digitalisation, which will also make us one of the leaders in the region. When we talk about the family in 2018, President Aleksandar Vukic proposed measures that were implemented and, as we heard at the previous session, gave results, a number of newborn children, and what I am glad to have more young people who decide to make marriages, to form families, people who are much younger than me, and I consider myself to be still a young person, although I am 31 years old. By forming these two ministries as two separate ones, the conditions will be created to make it even more effective, more efficient to go into the fight itself, we will have enough resources and ways to bring together new measures and instruments that will be applied to achieve results, which will again be an integral part of all the six principles, namely the goals that President Aleksandar Vukic has set out, and which should ultimately give the effect that Serbia will be a much better place for life, a place where young people will remain and where they will form families, which we already see that we have a part of the results achieved. What I'm finally saying is that I'm not going to support these proposed amendments anyway. I will vote on the proposed Law on Ministrys which, as I said, is only the first step in achieving all these six principles, and on the seriousness of the dialogue and the proposal that this group of six MPs made is actually talking about their lack of presence in the hall, and we will see through only the vote. Just in the end to say that, here, this is where the dialogue should be conducted, where discussions should be conducted, exchange views through arguments. We did a great job today, just too bad the other side doesn't realize it, which she's not here because dialogue takes two sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u325	Thank you. The 24th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 26th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed our search on all amendments, I am concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Monday, October 26th, 2020, starting at 1800 hours, as the Day of Vote on the 1st item of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. I thank you all for a great debate. We'll continue at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-26-0.u326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. You have received the resignation of MP Mark Đurić as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Mark Đurić, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), Rules of Procedure, the voting day quorum exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 205 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on ministries to the vote, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I'm closing the vote. A total of 205 MPs voted, for – 204, one did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 2nd amendment were brought together by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. A total of 205 MPs voted for – one against – 42 – 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. A total of 205 MPs voted, for – one, against – 20, 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. A total of 205 MPs voted for—no one, against—17, voted for 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. A total of 205 MPs voted, for - zero, against -11, 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. A total of 205 MPs voted, for -zero, against—five, 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. A total of 205 MPs voted, for -zero, against – 14, 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 24th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. A total of 205 MPs voted, for -zero, against -13, did not vote 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. A total of 205 MPs voted, for - zero, against -11, 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. A total of 205 MPs voted, for - zero, against -14, 191 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. A total of 205 MPs voted, four MPs did not vote for – 201. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on ministries in general. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 205 MPs voted for – 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on ministries. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Enis Imamovic, at a session on 26 October 2020, at 11 o'clock and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 203 MPs voted, against – three, not – 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladan Glisic, at a session on 26 October, at 13 hours and 37 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. In total, 202 MPs voted against - three - did not vote 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the first session of the Second Regular Session in 2020. I would like to remind everyone that we expect the proposal and the motion for an appointment of a session of the National Assembly dedicated to the debate on the government's programme and the election of mandates, namely the Prime Minister and members of the Government, to arrive tomorrow. The session would be held on Wednesday. Also, I'd like to inform all the members of the College that I've scheduled Wednesday at nine o'clock in the morning for a session of the College. Thank you.
